Document of                      FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2818-RW
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1980
This d.cunet bas resuttd dIsbtrIbulion au may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their ei    duties. Ils cutouts my met etherwise be diwlod without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -       Rwandese Franc (RF)
US$1.00              -       Rf 92
RF 100               -       US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -     African Development Bank
BGM         _     Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project
FRG         -     Federal Republic of Germany
ISAR        -     Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Institute of Agricultural Sciences of Rwanda)
OCIR        -     Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda)
OPROVIA     -     Office National pour le Developpement et la Commerciali-
sation des Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales
(National Agency for Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
OVAPAM      -     Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du
Mutara (Agency for Agricultural and Livestock Development
of Mutara)
SCM or      -     Stacked Cubic Meter (equivalent to approximately
Stere            0.7 cubic meter)
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programs
PFP         -     Pilot Forestry Project (Swiss Technical Assistance)
PMC         -     Project Management Committee
UNITS
Metric System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- i -
RWANDA INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Rwanda
Amount:                   US$21.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Standard
Prolect Description:      The proposed project would be the first phase
of a long-term program to develop the forestry
resources of Rwanda and to strengthen its livestock
industry.
(i)  The project would include the following components:
(a) the establishment of 5,000 ha and 3,000 ha in
Kigali and Butare prefectures,respectively,of fuelwood
and pole plantations, to supply charcoal, firewood
and building poles for the urban population of Kigali
and Butare; (b) rural woodlots to supply firewood and
building poles for the rural population; (c) the
establishment of an integrated fcrestry and livestock
scheme over approximately 4,000 ha within the Gishwati
Forest and development of integrated crop and
livestock services in the farming zones of the seven
comunes surrounding the Gishwati forest; (d) the
strengthening of the forestry services within the
Ministry of Agriculture through the provision of
staff, equipment, administrative buildings, and the
reorganization of the Waters and ForestsDepartment;
and (e) various studies, including a study of the
energy needs of Rwanda, experimentation in charcoal-
making by means of modern portable kilns, and develop-
ment of simple and economical cooking stoves for the
rural population; and (f) project monitoring and
evaluation, further project preparation, and training.
(ii)  The population of Kigali and Butare would be the
principal beneficiary of the fuelwood and pole
plantations. An estimated 3,000 farm families would
benefit from the establishment of rural woodlots and
about 40,000 farm families would benefit from the crop and
livestock intensification activities in the Gishwati area.
(iii)  The project involves several risks.  The scope
of the project is broad and requires long-term
government support and effective management. Delays
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
in implementation could result from management
problems, delayed recruitments and slow delivery of
materials and equipment. To offset these risks the
project includes substantial technical assistance
including support for the preparatory and start-up
activities. Another possible risk is that yields
from plantations might be lower than expected.
An additional risk is that the local population may
not be supportive of the plantation program if it
is not seen as a source of direct benefits; however,
there is some built-in flexibility in the Project
design to adapt the plantation and development
systems to local conditions. Developments under the
Project would have to be monitored closely through
intensive supervision.
I. Estimated cost: 1/
US$ '000
Project component                      Local      Foreign      Total
Administrative Support for
Forestry Services                          0.1          0.3        0.4
Project Management                           0.3          0.4        0.7
Kigali/Butare sub-project                    1.7          1.2        2.9
Gishwati sub-project                         3.8          3.3         7.1
Technical Assistance and
Consultants Service                        0.1          2.2        2.3
Studies and Trials                           0.2          0.2        0.4
Monitoring, Evaluation and Training          0.05         0.15        0.2
Total                              6.2         7.8        14.0
Contingency allowances
Physical                                     0.8          1.6         2.4
Price                                        4.6          2.6         7.2
Total contingencies                5.4         4.2         9.6
Total project costs:                      11.6         12.0       23.6
II. Financing Plan (US$ million):
Government of Rwanda                         2.6           -          2.6
IDA                                          9.0         12.0       21.0
Total                            11.6         12.0        23.6
1/   Taxes included in Project costs are negligible since virtually all items
would be exempt from import duties.



- iii -
III. Estimated disbursement (US$ million):
IDA Fiscal Year
IDA                  81    82      83    84    85    86       84
Annual                         1.5   2.1    3.6   4.0   4.0    4.4   1.4
Cumulative                     1.5   3.6    7.2  11.2  15.2   19.6  21.0
Rate of Return:          14% (on about 92% of total project cost)
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 2868a-RW, dated May 9, 1980
Map:                     IBRD No. 14527R - 14528R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA FOR AN
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Rwanda for the equivalent of US$21.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance an Integrated Forestry and Livestock
Development Project.
PART I - The Economy
2.        A report "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Economic
missions visited Rwanda in February and December 1979 and an updated
economic report is being prepared.
3.        Rwanda became independent in 1962.  Since the present Government
came to power in 1973, the country has enjoyed considerable! political stability.
This has been greatly facilitated by the unity and relative homogeneity of
the population and the absence of serious inequalities in the distribution
of income and wealth. With a per capita income (GDP) around $150 in 1978,
Rwanda is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is one of the smallest
but most densely populated countries in Africa, with a population density of
around 180 persons per square kilometer or about ten times the average density
for all of Sub-Saharan Africa. The population remains predominantly rural,
and only about 4.5 per cent were estimated to be in urban areas in 1978.
4.        About two thirds of Rwanda's surface area is suitable for agriculture,
virtually all of it already under cultivation. Small family farms of about
one hectare predominate with little use of hired labor. Roughly 95 percent of
the cultivated area is devoted to foodcrop production with fairly good diversi-
fication over a range of foodcrops (bananas, sorghum, peas, beans, maize,
cassava, and sweet potatoes). More than half of all farms also grow coffee,
the principal commercial and export crop, and many farms combine crop production
with cattle and small stock. Agriculture (including forestry and fishing)
accounts for about 50 percent of total value added.
5.        Apart from coffee, the only other significant agricultural export
crops are tea, pyrethrum, and quinine bark (cinchona). Coffee accounted
for about 60 per cent of the value of merchandise exports in 1978, tea for
around 7 per cent, cinchona and pyrethrum each for roughly 3 per cent.
Significant tea production and export only date from the mid 1970's and
expansion has been rapid.



- 2 -
6.        Cassiterite and wolfram, the principal mineral products, are still
important sources of export earnings (together accounting for about 20 per-
cent of merchandise export receipts in 1978) but production has stagnated over
the last decade due to resource depletion and rising production costs.
On-going mineral exploration has so far produced no significant new finds.
7.        The growth of output in manufacturing has been relatively rapid
over the past decade with gradual enlargement of the range of manufacturing
activities. In 1978 manufacturing accounted for about 18 percent of GDP
compared to around 14 percent in the early 1970's. Agro-industry and food
processing activities remain the most important.
8.        The landlocked position of the country and the great distance to
the nearest sea ports (1,700 km to Mombasa) create special problems. Apart
from the obvious effect of transport costs on import and export prices,
seriously exacerbated by recent rapid increases in the price of petroleum,
the country has been periodically subject to serious disruptions in transport
links from political events within and between neighbouring countries.
Although the Government has demonstrated commendable resolve and effectiveness
in containing and correcting the direct and immediate effects of these disrup-
tions on the domestic economy, the process of smooth and orderly development
has been made more difficult.
9.        Under the present government there has been a marked reorientation
in the focus of development strategy towards agriculture and the rural areas.
Increased food product1in is recognized as the cardinal priority and major
emphasis is also placed on improving infrastructure in transport and
communication. These objectives are reflected in the current (1977-81)
Five-Year Plan and in the new Constitution which was adopted in December 1978.
While tangible progress has been achieved, the rapid population growth,
general land shortage, diminishing soil fertility and the country's landlocked
position impose serious constraints on the pace at which development can take
place.
10.       While real GDP growth averaged between 5 and 6 per cent between 1975
and 1979, progress was rather erratic and uneven. Poor weather conditions in
1977 and 1978 adversely affected agricultural output, particularly domestic
foodcrop production which, over the past few years, has barely kept pace with
the rate of population growth. Production of coffee and tea, while affected
by the adverse weather conditions, has been stimulated by high world prices
since 1976. Information on developments in agriculture is still very
fragmentary and incomplete but it would appear that such increases in
foodcrop or export crop output as have taken place in recent years have been
due mainly to extension in cultivation area--at the expense of animal pasture
and forestry uses--rather than any significant improvements in yields.
11.       The closing of the Uganda border during the first half of 1979
created serious supply and export problems. Domestic manufacturing and
construction activity were particularly affected as was the production and
export of tea. General shortages of imported raw materials and consumer



- 3 -
goods resulted in accelerated price increases - the general inflation rate in
1979 is estimated at about 25 percent. However, the measures which the
government took to allocate import supplies to priority uses and to limit the
growth of monetary and credit expansion did much to contain the adverse
effects.
12.       The trade balance, which had been in surplus in 1976 (RF 760 million)
and 1977 (RF 2,105 million), registered a deficit of about RF 3,100 million
in 1978. This was mainly due to lower coffee export prices and to delays
in exporting the coffee crop at the end of 1978 with the closing of the Uganda
frontier. The deficit on services account has grown rapidly over recent years
with the effects of higher petroleum prices and transport difficulties on
transport costs. With significant exceptional external aid in 1978 to meet
the transport crises the overall balance of payments remained positive and
Rwanda's foreign exchange reserves in April 1979 were equivalent to about
7 months of merchandise imports.   A factor which has also contributed to
the satisfactory external financial position has been that imports have been
kept at a lower level than would be required for more rapid and substantial
economic growth. However, the balance of payments position remains very
sensitive to world coffee and tea prices and, with the prospect of signifi-
cantly lower coffee prices over the next year or two, is likely to deterio-
rate.
13.       The government has pursued sound and disciplined budgetary policies
over the last few years with surpluses on current account being recorded
in 1977, 1978 and 1979. The revenue base, however, remains narrow with a
strong dependence on coffee export receipts. Budgetary development expendi-
tures, while increasing, remain at an inadequate level and there are continu-
ing difficulties in significantly increasing development expenditures in
the agricultural and rural sector. Considerable strenghtening in project
preparation and implementation capability is still required.
14.       Economic and financial developments over recent years illustrate
the country's vulnerability to external economic factors as well as
structural weaknesses in the base of the domestic development effort. The
priorities which the government has established for its development strategy,
the initiatives which it has taken in fostering cooperation with neighbouring
countries and its generally sound and responsive management of the economy
are encouraging signs. More adequate progress in agricultural development
requires intensified efforts in infrastructure (local roads, storage facili-
ties) and extension services. A better coordination of external aid and
technical assistance would also be required. Recent efforts to bolster
project identification and appraisal capacity need to be expanded and inten-
sified. A more systematic effort is needed to monitor Plan implementation
and, particularly, to better coordinate the annual budget development expendi-
tures with the Plan's investment program. The recent reorganization of the
Ministry of Economics, Trade and Commerce, which aims at more effective
coordination of policies is evidence of the government's awareness of these
problems.



-4-
15.       Even with continued movement in economic performance over the
next few years the need for external assistance will increase, particularly
with the prospect of deteriorating terms of trade. Rwanda's external debt is
low and debt service payments represent only about 1.5 per cent of export
earnings. Given the country's level of poverty, the prospective w-'ld trade
situation and the length of time which structural adjustments in the economy
are likely to take, external assistance should continue to be on the most
concessional terms possible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
16.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural produc-
tion. Rwanda has received eleven IDA credits totaling US$88.5 million,
of which four (totaling US$43.1 million) were for roads, four (US$28.3 million)
for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects and one (US$7.9 million)
for education. There have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for
a tea factory was signed in 1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent
equity commitments of up to US$60,000 for a tea factory were approved in June
1979. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The first three highway projects are virtually completed, and
almost totally disbursed. A fourth credit for a highway maintenance project
(Credit 769-RW) was approved by the Board in February 1978 and became effec-
tive in August 1978; the specialists financed under the technical assistance
program are performing satisfactorily and procurement of equipment is in progress.
18.       The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed
in July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed. A second credit
of US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development
for the Mutura region, is not yet effective, but implementation has started
under financing advanced by the Project Preparation Facility. The Credit
Agreement for a cinchona project (US$1.8 million) and the Credit Agreement
for the Bugesera/Gisaka Migongo mixed farming and rural development project
(US$14.0 million) were signed in August 1976 and in March 1977, respectively.
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. A credit for an education
project (US$7.9 million) consisting primarily of construction, furniture and
equipment for workshops, became effective in 1975. Physical implementation
has been slow and complicated by procurement problems. The first credit of
US$4.0 million to the Development Finance Company (BRD) has now been fully
committed. BRD's performance under the credit has been highly satisfac-
tory.    A second credit of US$5.2 million to BRD was signed on July 13,
1979, and became effective on January 4, 1980.
19.       Mainly because of shortages of trained manpower and managerial
skills in Rwanda, the execution of projects requires substantial assistance
from Bank Group staff through extensive supervision and from expatriate
experts, for whom financing is included under most credits.



- 5 -
20.        For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will
remain on agriculture, although absorptive capacity and the activities of
other donors may limit the scope of our activity in this sector; on communica-
tions to reduce the country's isolation; and on development of human resources.
A Telecommunications Project is expected to be presented to the Exewutive
Directors shortly. Preparation of a coffee development project has been
substantially completed and pre-appraisal is under way. In highways, the
Government has asked the Bank to participate in the financing of the Butare-
Cyangugu roads, for which a feasibility study and detailed engineering will be
carried out this year; the project would open up the southern region towards
Zaire and Burundi and support both the forestry and the coffee development
projects. In the water supply sector a project is being prepared which aims
at improving water supply in rural areas and providing sanitation facilities
for Kigali. We also intend to continue our support to the development bank
(BRD).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.       Agriculture is the most important sector of Rwanda's economy.  In
1978 it contributed about 50% of GDP, accounted for two thirds of its2export
earnings, and supported over 90% of its people. About 54% (13,800 km ) of
Rwanda's land area is available for agriculture, of which slightly more than
half, only, (8,000 km ) is suitable for cultivation. Approximately 22% is
pasture land, 6% is forest, and the rest is considered as unusable land. In
1976, over 95% of the area under cultivation was devoted to subsistence crops
and 5% to commercial crops. Total foodcrop production falls short of basic
requirements, and Rwanda spends about 11% of its export revenues on foodcrops
imports. Moreover, Rwanda faces a critical problem of soil degradation
accelerated by the growing population's demands. About 90% of the rural
population is below the absolute poverty level of US$85 per capita per annum.
Most of the land is still traditionally farmed, crop yields are low and
practically no fertilizers are used.
22.       By law, all land in Rwanda belongs to the Government; uncultivated
land can be used by the Government for any purpose. However, most landholding
is actually governed by both traditional law and modern regulations. Tradi-
tional land tenure practice allows individual usufruct rights to continuously
cultivated land. All pasture land is communally held. Most cultivated land
can be passed on to heirs; it is rarely sold for cash. Farmers in organized
settlement schemes (Paysannats) enter into a contract with the Government
which grants them the use of 2 ha plot, but the settlers may not subdivide
their plots among their children. The Government is considering a land reform
policy which would include: (i) full use of all agricultural land so that
land cannot be set aside by prominent landowners for their children; (2) dis-
couragement of land acquisition by non-farmers; and (3) regrouping of small
farms and pieces of land to form larger, continuous units.



-6-
23.        Relatively good soils and favorable climatic conditions allow
two crops per year in most areas. The variations in elevation and climate
allow a wide range of crops to be grown. Subsistence or food crops grown
at lower elevations include beans, maize, sorghum, bananas, sweet potatoes,
groundnuts, and cassava. The principal food crops grown at higher elevations
are peas, potatoes, and sweet potatoes. Cash crops, which account for about
70% of export earnings, include coffee, tea, pyrethrum, and cinchona.
About 95% of cultivated land is planted with food crops, with an estimated
one quarter of this area under bananas, most of which are used to produce
beer.
24.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for policy
formulation and coordination of activities in the sector. The Ministry has a
staff of 2,400, most of whom are field extension workers or veterinary field
staff. Its operating and development budgets were respectively RF 287
million and RF 1,291 million in 1977, representing a modest 4.2 and 6.6% of
the Government's total operating and development budgets. The Government also
operates through statutory organizations such as the Office des Cultures
Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR), which is responsible for quality control and
marketing of export crops, and the Office National pour le Developpement et
la Commercialisation des Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales
(OPROVIA), which is responsible for the production, processing and marketing
of foodcrops and livestock. Agricultural research is carried out by the
Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda (ISAR), through several research
stations.
25.       The Government of Rwanda has defined the broad objectives for
agricultural and rural development in the Second Five-Year Plan (1977-1981).
Four essential goals have been identified: (i) meeting the population's
nutritional requirements; (ii) promoting a better utilization of human
resources; (iii) improving individual and collective living conditions; and
(iv) lessening dependency from abroad by diversifying agriculture and becoming
progressively self-sufficient in food crop production. The Plan emphasizes
the importance of agriculture in Rwanda's economy and the priority to be
given to this sector, in particular to integrated rural development as one of
the means of agricultural growth.
The Livestock Sub-sector
26.        Livestock has traditionally been seen as a symbol of wealth,
rather than as a productive, integral part of the agricultural system.
With the increase in population and the lack of new farmland, more and more
grazing land has been brought under cultivation, causing overgrazing and
destruction of the remaining pasture land. Consequently, in spite of improved
animal health, the national cattle herd of Rwanda has been decreasing.
In 1977 there were about 640,000 head of cattle, as compared to 750,000 in
1975. Cattle raising in Rwanda is still organized along traditional lines for
milk and meat production. In spite of the severe shortage of grazing land,
few cattle are stall-fed, although most goats and sheep are kept tethered.
However, a major intensification effort has recently begun throughout the



- 7 -
country involving stall-feeding of livestock on forage crops. Animal health
infrastructures are relatively good but veterinary products are often lacking.
Milk production is low, about 64 million liters in 1977, of which about one
third was for human consumption.
The Forestry sub-sector
27.       The forest resources of Rwanda cover some 170,000 ha or less than
6 percent of the total area and are being destroyed at a very rapid rate.
The existing forest comprises the Nyungwe reserve (90,000 ha), the Gishwati
reserve (6,000 ha), State plantations (6,000 ha), communal woodlots (20,000
ha), roadside trees (2,000 ha), and individual woodlots (20,000 ha). Very
few trees have been planted to replace those which have been cut down and
sporadic government tree-planting programs have had only minimal success.
Land is so scarce that farmers plant most of the land they have in crops
which produce an immediate return. The result has been a steady decline in
the supply of wood.
28.       Wood is used in Rwanda as the principal source of energy for
cooking and heating, for construction and building, and as the main fuel
for various rural activities (drying of tea, tobacco and pyrethrum; making
of bricks, tiles, pottery; metal forging; etc.) The most important wood
derivative is charcoal, which is the preferred source of fuel for most of
urban population. Charcoal prices in mid-1979 were US$4.34 equivalent for a
30-35 kg bag in Kigali and US$5.43 in Butare; a family may use up to 5 bags
of charcoal per month. The high (and increasing) prices of charcoal have
severely affected the u-ban population and in particular the poor, who have
to spend a significant proportion of their incomes for their fuel needs.
29.      It is difficult to make precise projections of future wood needs
because of the many uncertainties about future population size, wood imports,
and possible alternative energy sources. Assuming that the population of
Rwanda will be approximately 7.5 million in the year 2000, demand fo  wood
can be roughly estimated at 5.5 million tons, or about 7.5 million m per
year, which equals the production of 750,000 ha of plantations. Existing
plantations and other forest resources would not even suffice to meet 25% of
this demand. Even using all the wood that can be produced in Rwanda, alter-
native sources of energy will have to be found. The only realistic possible
substitute for wood energy is peat, since solar technology and methane gas
recovery methods are not yet well developed, and petroleum products are
likely to remain too expensive for all but a very few Rwandese. Studies are
underway to examine the feasibility of using peat, but peat is more likely to
be used for industrial than for domestic needs.   The demand for wood is
therefore likely to exceed by far the supply, especially in view of Rwanda's
rapidly increasing population.
30.      A major constraint on forestry development in Rwanda has tradi-
tionally been the Government's lack of awareness of the magnitude of the
problem and its consequent failure to develop a comprehensive forestry policy.
Two major problems have to be addressed. The first is the critical shortage
of land. Small, scattered, uncultivated hilltops remain, but large areas
suitable for forest plantations are virtually non-existent. Reforestation
programs have to confine themselves to areas which are unsuitable for either



- 8 -
cultivation or livestock production, and to look for possibilities to inte-
grate tree cultivation into the farming systems or to systematically plant
trees along roadside. The second problem is the traditional attitude toward
wood and forests which assigns a low value to wood. As wood becomes scarce
and meeting a family's fuel needs demands an increasing proportion of both
time and income, this attitude is likely to change. The government would
then have a better chance of setting and enforcing realistic prices, in
line with the growing scarcity of wood. The forestry policy will also have
to include protection of the remaining natural forest, control of planta-
tions, planting programs, means of enforcement, and a continued training
effort.
31.      The Government has become increasingly aware of these problems
and has started action to address them. In cooperation with the Swiss gover-
ment, a Pilot Forestry Project (PFP) was started in 1967. Two centers were
established to promote both the conservation and rational exploitation of the
forest, including a sawmill operation and charcoal production center. Other
activities under this project included the publication of a guide to the
main species of the forests of Rwanda, a forestry map and various
didactic materials on the importance of forestry for rural development. The
focus of the project's activities shifted in 1975 to rural afforestation,
especially in Kibuye prefecture, and training. The PFP began to work more
closely on research and documentation with the Institut des Sciences Agronomi-
ques du Rwanda (ISAR) at Rubona in 1977, and at about the same time the Swiss
helped to form the Groupe Forestier du Rwanda, an advisory group which periodi-
cally meets to review forestry problems and prepare recomnendations to the
Government. The PFP has also attempted to set up a seed distribution network,
the Forest Seed Center of Rwanda, and one of the main thrusts of the program
has been to improve the quality of locally produced seeds' especially in view
of the difficulties involved in importing seeds. The PFP is now changing its
emphasis to become a Forestry Development Project (PRODEFOR) which will stress
support to the Department of Waters and Forests and continue the programs of
training, afforestation, forest conservation, and forestry education and
extension. A technical specialist will be assigned to the Department of
Waters and Forests. On the whole, the project has been very successful.
In particular, the scholarship program has permitted the creation of a
nucleus of trained forestry personnel who are going to have a leadership
role in the future development of the forestry sector in Rwanda.
32.      Other agricultural projects have included reforestation components,
often as an anti-erosion measure. The IDA-supported Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo
and Mutara projects include the reforestation of several hundred hectares;
the agricultural intensification projects sponsored by the Federal Republic of
Germany in Ramba and Gaseke communes, provides for reforestation of 100 ha per
year; and the Banque Africaine de Developpement project in Karago and Giciye
communes, includes reforestation of 2,000 ha over 5 years. The Belgian
government is planning a project which would afforest 1,000 ha on the borders
of the Nyungwe reserve. Much remains to be done in terms of standardizing
forestry techniques and a stronger Department of Waters and Forests should be
able to ensure better coordination of activities and avoid unproductive
experimentation and duplication of efforts.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.       The proposed project was identified in 1977 and was prepared by
the Government of Rwanda, with IDA assistance, during 1978. A Staff appraisal
report entitled Rwanda, Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project
No. 2868a-RW dated May 9, 1980 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Maps (IBRD 14527R-14528R) showing the project areas are attached.
Supplementary data on the project are contained in Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington from May 6, 1980 to May 9, 1980. The Rwandese delega-
tion was led by H. E. Frederic Nzamurambaho, Minister of Agriculture and
Livestock.
Objectives and Description of the Project
34.        The main objectives of the Project would be to strengthen the institu-
tions serving the forestry subsector and to initiate the first phase of a
long term program to redevelop the forestry resources of Rwanda. A related
objective would be to develop a high productivity cattle industry in the
Gishwati area. The Project would thus comprise:
a)   the strengthening of the Forestry Services within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock, including (i) the reorganization
of the Waters and Forests Department, including the Forestry
Division; (ii) the construction of appropriate offices; and
(iii) the provision of staff and logistical support;
b)   the development in Kigali and Butare Prefectures of:  (i) 5,000 ha
and 3,000 ha, respectively, of plantations to supply fuelwood,
charcoal and building poles for the urban populations of Kigali and
Butare; and (ii) rural woodlots to supply fuelwood and poles for the
rural population;
c)   the development in Gisenyi Prefecture of:  (i) about 4,000 ha
as part of an integrated forestry and livestock development program
within the perimeter of the Gishwati Forest, including 2,000 ha of
soft wood plantations for the production of saw timber and 2,000 ha
of pastures for cattle production of which 200 ha would be developed
as a technical support center; and (ii) integrated crop and live-
stock services in the farming zones of the seven communes surround-
ing the Gishwati Forest; rural woodlots would also be established
along the same lines as the component proposed for Kigali and Butare;
d)   technical assistance for project management and on-the-job training
of Rwandese staff;
e)   studies and field trials, specifically a study of Rwanda's energy
use and needs, experimentation with more efficient charcoal produc-
tion techniques, development of new designs for cooking stoves for
the rural population, and pasture and cattle breeding trials; and



- 10 -
f)   project monitoring and evaluation, further project preparation
and provision of scholarships,mainly in forestry, livestock and
financial disciplines.
The project would be organized into two subprojects;   a fuelwood
and pole subproject in Kigali and Butare prefectures, and sawtimber planta-
tions integrated with livestock activities in the area of the Gishwati Forest
(Gisenyi prefecture). Implementation would be phased over a period of about
six years, including the preparatory phase.
Kigali/Butare Fuelwood and Pole Sub-Project
35.      This sub-project would be implemented in the Prefectures of Kigali
and Butare. In Kigali Prefecture, the Government has selected some 20 bare
hills in seven communes, ranging in area from 100 to 400 hectares, and
totaling about 5,000 ha within 50 km to the north and east of the city of
Kigali. All the fuelwood and pole plantations would be located on the top
and slopes of these hills, which are denuded, very sparsely populated, and
in general do not lend themselves to agricultural production. In Butare
Prefecture, the Government has selected two mountain ranges within less
than 25 km to the west of the town of Butare: a series of bare hills in
Runyinya commune and a long bare mountain range on the boundary of the
communes of Runyinya and Maraba, covering a total net area of about 3,000 ha.
It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the Government had taken
all necessary action to designate the hills selected for afforestation in
Kigali and Butare as national plantations and to establish adequate procedures
for the development and management of those plantations (Section 6.01(a)
of  the   Development Credit Agreement).  The Government has indicated
that in the final determination of precise plantation boundaries every
effort would be made to ensure that cultivated land and land suitable for
crops would not be utilized. Where cultivated land has to be utilized,
appropriate compensation would be paid (Section 3.07(b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
36.      Kigali Plantations.  About 5,000 ha of fuelwood and pole plantations
would be established over a period of 5 years, mainly for charcoal and pole
production for the population of Kigali. During the first year of Project
implementation, 300 ha would be planted; the planted area would increase to
1,500 ha in the fourth and fifth year. In selecting the species to be
planted, special attention would be paid to soil and climatic conditions.
Selected seeds would be imported from neighboring countries, preferably Kenya
or Tanzania, through the Forest Seed Center of Rwanda. The principal features
of the plantation program would be manual ground preparation (pitting), seed-
ling production in one or more nurseries, protection against termites in the
nursery, manual planting, experimental fertilizing, and weeding. Eucalyptus
plantations would be harvested at eight year intervals, with one seedling
and three coppice crops. The principal investment items would be direct
afforestation costs for nurseries and planting (materials, equipment and
labor), development of infrastructures (access tracks, buildings), and
plantation operation and maintenance during the project implementation
period.



- 11 -
37.       Butare Plantations.  Short-rotation fuelwood and pole plantations
totaling about 3,000 ha net would be established to supply the Butare market.
The planting program would start with 200 ha in the first year and would reach
900 ha a year in the fourth and fifth years. A small office and staff
housing would be built near Butare. The technical package and investments
would be similar to those envisaged for the Kigali plantations.
38.       Pilot Rural Woodlots.  In order to encourage the communes, the
population and various institutions such as missions and schools to participate
in the country's reforestation program, the central nurseries in Kigali and
Butare would produce for sale about 10% more eucalyptus seedlings than needed
for the State plantations. The nurseries would also produce for sale limited
quantities of fruit tree and fodder tree seedlings. This program would allow
an assessment of the interest of the rural population in growing trees and woodlots
to supply their own consumption. If the response is positive, a broader rural
nursery program could be developed in future projects. During the project
implementation period, the nurseries would mainly serve communes in Kigali and
Butare prefectures. In accordance with the Government's current policy, rural
woodlots would be grouped as far as possible, although they would be individ-
ually owned. Fruit and fodder trees would be planted either around the rugo
(home) or as anti-erosion hedges. The nursery staff and the staff of the
Waters and Forests Department would provide technical advice and supervision
to the communes, individual farmers and institutions growing woodlots. In
the first year, 100,000 seedlings would be produced, representing 50 ha of
woodlots; production would reach 480,000 in the fourth and fifth year of the
Project, representing 24) ha a year. The main investment items would include
planting materials (seed,, tubes, etc.) and the incremental cost of nursery
operations.
Gishwati Integrated Forestry and Livestock Develoment Sub-Project
39.       The subproject activities would be carried out on about 110,000 ha
in the seven communes of Gisenyi Prefecture in which part of the Gishwati
Forest is located. The present farming system in this area fullv
integrates the resources of the lowlands and highlands in the farming zone
outside the forest, and the resources of the forest. Farmers have developed
a complex crop and livestock husbandry system in which altitude is a deter-
mining factor. Peas, sorghum and maize are mostly grown in the lowlands,
while peas and potatoes are predominant on the highlands. Each crop is
usually cultivated only once a year on the same plot; potatoes alone enter
twice in the crop rotation system, but on different plots. Terracing is
commonly practiced, but since Independence the planting of anti-erosion
fodder strips has been discontinued. Family farm units average about 1.50
ha. Large tea plantations have recently been developed, thereby putting
additional pressure on land used for food crop cultivation. Livestock is
raised on post-harvest crop residues and fallows, and in the forest pastures
when the former are exhausted. About 24,000 head of cattle are reportedly
grazing permanently in the area, as well as 7,000 goats and sheep. The
traditional system whereby the farmers raise the cattle of village chiefs is
still commonly practiced; in addition, since the post-harvest fallows are
opened to everybody, cattle is brought to the area from other communes or
prefectures.



- 12 -
40.       The objective of the sub-project would be to make optimal use of the
high, but presently underutilized, agricultural potential of the Gishwati area
while protecting its ecological balance, to develop forestry resources and to
maintain and develop livestock activities. As a first step, a long-term
land use plan for the Gishwati Forest Reserve would be established. For this
purpose, detailed topographical mapping and a socio-economic survey of the
selected areas are now underway with financing under the Project Preparation
Facility. After the completion of the topographical surveys and mapping,
the exact boundaries of the plantation blocks would be determined. The
definition of the development objectives for the Gishwati forest and of
adequate procedures for its management would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Credit Agreement (Section 6.01(a) of Deyelopment Credit Agree-
ment). The complete land use plan would be finalized and discussed with IDA
as part of the first annual work plan review (para. 49).
41.       The sub-project would include the development, within the Gishwati
forest, of about 2,000 ha of softwood saw-timber plantation (as the first
five-year phase of a 25-year program which should eventually reach 10,000 ha).
The main activities involved would be land clearing and preparation, seedling
production in one or several nurseries, pittingmanual planting and weeding,
and some fencing of plantation blocks with live hedges to prevent encroachment
by cattle. A network of forest roads and tracks would be established. The
main firebreaks would be the buffer zones of pasture; narrower firebreaks
would be established inside each planted block. Pilot rural woodlots would
also be established along the same lines as the component proposed for Kigali
and Butare.
42.       In the farming areas of the seven communes surrounding the Gishwati
forest, the project would include an integrated crop and livestock development
program consisting of:(a) development of extension services for crops and
livestock; (b) establishment of about 1,800 ha of pastures for livestock
production around the forest blocks (these would also serve as firebreaks--see
para. 41); (c) creation of a Livestock Technical Support Center on about 200
ha to develop a breeding herd, and to undertake some seed multiplication and
pasture improvement experimentation; (d) an experimental program of credit to
provide the financial means for farmers to acquire improved cattle, seeds and
forage material for planting; and (e) experimental marketing scheme to
support commercialization of milk, livestock, and meat.
Technical Assistance and Consultant's Services
43.       Some Rwandese technicians qualified in the field of forestry are
now available but none of them has sufficient experience as yet to manage the
proposed project initially. Technical assistance would thus be required
for Project management and to train Rwandese staff to eventually take over the
management of project activities. A team of specialists would be internation-
ally recruited, including an administrative and financial director, a director
for the Gishwati sub-project, two silviculturists (one for the fuelwood and
pole subproject and one for the softwood plantation program), a construction
superintendent, and one zootechnician for the Gishwati livestock program.



- 13 -
It is estimated that technical assistance would be required for a total of
about 340 man-months corresponding to 1.4 man-year of experts' services
during the project preparatory phase, plus five experts for five years and
one for two years during project implementation. The average cost of
US$7,600 per man-month includes salaries, overseas travel and subs> _ence.
Short-term consultants would be hired to assist in the implementation of
the experimental credit and marketing activities, and for the detailed
design of the training programs. Twelve man-months of consultants' services
have been included in Project costs, at an average cost of US$10,200 per
man-month including fees, transport and subsistence. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that the qualifications, terms of reference
and conditions of employment of these consultants would be submitted to IDA
for review and approval. (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement.)
Studies and Field Trials
44.       Studies and trials would be undertaken under the project.  These would
include: a study to assess the energy use and future needs of Rwanda; studies
to develop more efficient charcoal making with portable kilns and to design
simple and economical cooking equipment for use by the rural population; and
trials on fertilization and on fodder trees. Terms of reference and condi-
tions of execution for the studies and trials would be submitted to IDA for
approval (Section 3.04 of Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Monitoring and Training
45.       A simple monitoring and evaluation system based on key financial
and technical indicators would be developed by the Project Management to
assess project progress. For the forestry programs, this system would be
retained by the Waters and Forests Department upon completion of the
project.
46.       Provision has been made in the Project for post-graduate training
of forestry engineers and technicians, and for scholarships in livestock
related disciplines, e.g. abattoir management and milk processing. Training
funds have also been included for scholarships in accounting, financial
analysis and management.
Project Implementation and Management
47.       The project would be implemented over a period of about six years,
including a preparatory phase and an implementation phase starting around
December 1980. A Project Management Committee (PMC) to be established within
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would have overall responsibility
for supervision of project implementation. It would include the Minister
of Agriculture and Livestock or his delegate, the Project Coordinator, the
Administrative and Financial Director, and the sub-projects'Directors and
their Deputies. The PMC would supervise the overall planning, implementation
and performance of the Project. It would approve the annual work plans,



- 14 -
budgets and performance reports on the Project. Establishment of the Project
Management Committee would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Project (Section 6.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Responsibility for day-to-day execution of the Project would be
delegated to the Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator would be
assisted during the Project preparatory phase by a land use planner (to
become later the Director of the Gishwati sub-project), the Administrative
and Financial Director and supporting staff. During the Project implementa-
tion period, the technical implementation of the Project would be decentralized
into two sub-projects, each under the authority of a sub-Project Director.
Qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment (including
terms of reference) of all key Project Management staff would be agreed
upon with the Association (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Appointment of the Project Coordinator and the Administrative and Financial
Director would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (d) of
the   Development Credit Agreement).  It would be a condition of disbursement
for the Kigali/Butare sub-project that the sub-project Director and his two
Deputies had been appointed, and for the Gishwati sub-project that the sub-
project Director, the silviculturist and his deputy, the livestock specialist
and his deputy had been appointed (Schedule 1 para. 5 of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
49.       The Project Coordinator (PC) would coordinate the preparation of
annual work plans as a basis for systematic project management. The major
elements of the work plans would be: (a) a detailed description of activities
by sub-project; (b) a detailed plan of operations for the forthcoming 12-month
period (preferably the fiscal year); (c) a detailed investment and operating
budget for this work elements, supported by appropriate documentation and
justification. The draft annual work plans would be approved by the PMC, and
then submitted to IDA for approval not later than October 1 of each year,
so that the approved budget can be entered in the normal budget cycle of the
Government. These work plans would also be useful instruments of Project
supervision for IDA. Assurances on the above were obtained during nego-
tiations (Section 3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement}.
50.       Under the project the forestry services of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Livestock would be strengthened. The Department of Waters and
Forests, including its Forestry Division, would be reorganized (Section
3.08 of Development Credit Agreement). The main responsibilities of the
Forestry Division would be to develop a forestry policy, to draft legislation
to execute the national forestry programs, and to assist prefectures, communes
or institutions in the implementation of afforestation projects. It would,
in addition, develop standards for nursery and plantation techniques, and
supervise their application.  The managerial and technical capacity of the
Waters and Forests Department would also be strengthened through the Project.
Upon completion of project implementation, the Project Coordinator and the
staff of the two sub-projects would be reintegrated into the Waters and
Forests Department.



- 15 -
Accounts and Audit
51.       The Project Management would maintain separate records and accounts
on all project activities. These accounts would be part of the Ministry's
overall accounts anLd would be controlled and reviewed following normal Govern-
ment financial control procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association.
Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors, and audited accounts
would be submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each
fiscal year. Accounting and audit procedures would be acceptable to the
Association. (Sections 3.06 and 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Pricing and Marketing
52.       The Project fuelwood and pole production would be sold by the Govern-
ment in Kigali and Butare and the saw timber produced at Gishwati would be
marketed throughout Rwanda. Most of the incremental livestock production would
be marketed through traditional channels.
53.       A comprehensive pricing and marketing policy for forestry products
has not yet been established. However, the Government recognizes the need to
develop such a policy and has accepted the principle that prices of all
forest products regulated by the Government should reflect the full cost of
production. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on: a) the design
and implementation of a pricing policy (to be reviewed annually with IDA),
based on production costs for fuelwood, poles and saw timber; and b) the
introduction, following consultations with IDA, of a policy for the exploita-
tion of tree plantationL., including (i) the establishment of stumpage fees for
the existing plantations and (ii) the preparation of a proposal for the
exploitation of the fuelwood, poles, and saw timber plantations established
under the Project. (Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreementl.
54.       The Government would seek to sell seedlings produced by the nurseries
against payments in cash or in kind adequate to recover the full production
costs (excluding expatriate management costs). The Government would consult
periodically with the Association on prices charged for seedlings and the
adequacy of incentives to farmers to plant trees (Section 4.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement). The cost of veterinary services would also
be partly recovered as participants would pay for drugs and veterinary
treatments; the proceeds from these payments would be paid into a project
revolving fund (para 56).
Project Costs
55.       Project costs are estimated at prices as of February 1980.  A
physical contingency of 15% was applied to forestry developments and project
administration , and of 10% to other project components. Price contingencies
were calculated assuming that local costs awould increase at the rate of 18%
in 1980 and 15% p.a. in 1981-1985; and that foreign exchange costs would
increase by 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7% in 1983-1985. Taxes
included in Project costs are negligible since virtually all items would be
exempt from import duties.



- 16 -
56.       The proposed IDA credit of US$21.0 million would be made to the
Government of Rwanda on standard IDA terms. The credit would finance 100% of
the foreign exchange costs, and about 77% of the local costs. The Government
would contribute about 11% of total project costs or US$2.6 million. A
Project Account of US$400,000 equivalent would be established under the
control of the PMC and maintained at that level to ensure that adequate funds
are available for efficient project implementation. IDA would contribute to
the establishment of the Project Account by prefinancing US$300,000. It would
be a condition of credit effectiveness that the Project Account be established
and the minimum balance of US$100,000 be paid up by the Government (Sections
2.02, 3.01 and 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement). Under the Project
Preparation Facility, IDA has advanced US$1.0 million to the Government to
help start up the project. Amounts disbursed would be reimbursed from the
Credit Account.  (Preamble and Section 2.02(i) of the Development Credit
Agreement.)
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment exceeding
US$80,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts would be grouped to the
extent possible. Contracts for materials and equipment costing less than
US$80,000 would be awarded following Government procurement procedures, which
are satisfactory; subject,however, to the condition that for purchases of
materials and equipment costing more than US$20,000, price quotations should be
sought from suppliers located  in at least three countries.  The civil works
envisaged under the Project are small in size, and would be scattered through-
out Rwanda; they would be unlikely to attract international firms and inter-
national bidding would not be appropriate. Development of the plantation
sites would be undertaken directly by the Project staff. For the major
buildings (Project headquarters and housing), local contractors would be
selected on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with Govern-
ment procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. The roads and other civil
works (small buildings, etc.) would be carried out mostly by force account.
58.       IDA funds would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 100% of foreign
exchange expenditures or 95% of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment
and materials; (b) 95% of total expenditures for civil works, including
roads, and direct costs of plantation and livestock development; (c) 30% of
total operating   expenditures for project administration and extension
services; (d) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance;
(e) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for
studies, field trials, monitoring and evaluation, and training. Disbursements
under (a), (d), (e) and civil works by contract under (b) would be fully
documented. Disbursements for local expenditures on civil works by force
account under (b) and for local expenditures under (c) would be made against
statements of expenditure certified by the Project Coordinator and the Adminis-
trative and Financial Director. The related documentation would be retained
for inspection by IDA supervision missions.



- 17 -
Economic Justification and Benefits
59.       The economic rate of return from all directly productive components
of the project (about 92% of total project cost) is estimated at 14%. The
costs of strengthening the Forestry Department, future project preparation and
studies and trials were not included in the analysis, as benefits _3.m these
activities would accrue principally to future projects and programs. No
separate rate of return was calculated for the rural nurseries (representing
less than 1% of total costs) because of the difficulty of defining an appro-
priate value for the eventual wood production. The rate of return for the
Kigali and Butare fuelwood and pole plantations is estimated at about 13%
for Kigali and 12% for Butara (assuming a project life of 33 years). The
rate of return for the Gishwati plantations is estimated at about 12% over
26 years, assuming that the economic value of timber equals the projected
costs of imported saw timber, including transport and cutting. The economic
rate of return for the Gishwati livestock component is estimated at about
20% over 20 years.
60.       In undertaking the proposed project the Government of Rwanda would
in effect commit itself to a long-term development program, which would not
yield financial benefits for a number of years. In the long run, the principal
benefits of the project would include an increased supply of fuelwood, build-
ing poles and charcoal to the population of Kigali and Butare. Sawn timber
and smallwood production could support a possible future sawmilling industry.
An estimated 3,000 farmers could benefit from the pilot rural woodlots. The
rural woodlots program is likely to encourage part of the rural population to
reduce the use of agricultural residues for fuel thus enhancing soil fertiliza-
tion and reducing erosion. For the livestock and crop intensification activi-
ties an estimated 40,000 farm families would receive direct benefits from the
project. The increased supply of meat and milk would also contribute to
improved nutrition, especially in the densely populated Gishwati area.
61.       Project investments would have a significant employment impact in
the project areas since plantation development would be highly labor-intensive.
The Kigali plantation would employ 125 permanent staff and up to 2,500
laborers; the Butare plantation about 75 permanent staff and up to 1,500
temporary laborers and the Gishwati pine plantation 100 permanent staff
and up to 1,000 laborers.
Risks
62.       The project involves several risks.  The scope of the project is
broad and requires long-term Government support and effective management.
Delays in implementation could result from management difficulties, problems
in recruiting staff, or slow deliveries of materials and equipment from
overseas. To offset these risks, substantial provision for technical assis-
tance, including for the preparatory and start-up activities, is made in the
Project. Another risk is that yields from the plantations could be lower
than expected, although experience with other African countries suggests that
yield estimates are reasonable, and probably conservative. A further risk,



- 18 -
common to all forestry projects, is destruction of plantations by fire, but
appropriate provisions have been made for fire prevention measures. The risk
that the production might not find a ready market is minimal, as projected
wood production will fall short of the estimated demand. The Gishvati
forestry component presents an additional risk which is that the local
population may not be supportive of the plantation program, if they do not
see it as a source of direct benefits. To offset this risk there is some
built-in flexibility in the Project which would permit modification in the
project design to adapt to local conditions, as the results of the economic
survey become available and further experience is gained.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Rwanda and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the
Credit would be that: (a) all necessary action had been taken to designate
the areas selected for afforestation in Kigali and Butare prefectures, define
the development objectives of the Gishwati Forest, and outline the procedures
for the development and management of these plantations; (b) a Project
Account had been established and a minimum balance of US$100,000 had been
paid up by the Government; (c) the Project Management Committee had been
established and the Project Coordinator and the Administrative and Financial
Director had been appointed. (Section 6.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 15, 1980



- 19 -
COUT-TRY DATA - RWANDA                        ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 5
ZA                   ?ONATION                                  bLST  (1f7s)
28.340 Sq. ka        4.8  illion1 (uid-1978)                   192 ptr sq. i.
lots of gaeve: 3.23 (from 1970 to 17S;
1aeU1Ia 9.32  msdrat1a.
PoPt1lAI0O       ACTER7STICS (1977)                   "EJ1LT1  (1976)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)          51              Population per physicianL         39,350
Crude Dearth Pate (per 1,000)        Z2               Population per hospital bed          580 (1975)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                   DISTRIBUTION OF L.AD 06N1ERSHIP
Z of national income, highest quintile   ..           % owned by top 10% of ourners
lowest quintile       ..    t owned by smallest 10% of owrners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1976)                          ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Occupied dwellings without                            I vf .nn.zl'Ation - total
piped water (%)                  65                                                - rural
NUlTRITION                                                  EDUCATION (1976)
Calorie intake as % of requirements             90           Adult Literacy rare %               23
Per capita ptocein intake (grms(day)            51           Primary school entollmenmi Z        50
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978 a/:  US$1.82
GROSS :-^A710NAL PRODU T IN 1977                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROt'TH (%, 1972 prices)
USS Mln        %                   1974-77           1977
GNP at Market Prices              747.5       100.0                   6.3               3.2
Gross Domestic Investment         114.         15.2 6O3 b/ 
Gross ?lacional Saving             68.9         9.2                  -7.0-            -2.0
Current Account Balance            45.1         6.0
Export of Goods, 21FS             134.1        17.9                 -11.0            -40.6
Import of Goods, NiFS             179.2        24.0                  10.1              6.2
Val1ue added
USS Xtln
Agriculture                             339.6        46.0
Industry, mining. conjcrc-tion          138.8        21.5
Services                                239.8        32.5
Total/Average                        738.2      100.0
COVERNDEN47 FINANCE
Ccntral Government
(RuF Mln)                        % of GDP
1977                   1Q77                  1972
Current Receipt, 8345.7                                                   11.8                    8.3
Curtent Expenditure                               6,43.0                   9.1                  10.7
Current Surplus                                   1207.7                   2.7                  -2.4
Capital Expenditurcs                              43111.9                  t.4                    t.2
a.  The Per Capita C!NP estimate calculated bve .n.         e axa vn rsr    enuq     ;
''ortld B.ank At.ls.  All other zonversx.onx to 'ol:arr  !n this table ire at the  w.Veraxe
ctcthange rate ptovaili-n; during tlhe period covered.
b/ Mission ttr-ate
*  not applible
n flot avnil4ble



- 20 -
COuIITRY DATA - RUaAZJEA                  ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 5
483NEY. CREDIT AND PRICES           1974      1975      1976      1977     1978
(Rvt' :li onoutstanding. end period)
iKoney SuP  lY                       .55      6 9 8     7,540    %861    11053 a/
Bank Crndit to Public Sector       3,207     7857      2.967      841       I 8j3/
Sank Credit to Prmyate Sector    48521    1682    27091          3,834     '089a/
(Percentage or tndex Numbers)
money as % of GDP                    13.9      ;o.e      1242    14.0
Consumer Price Index (Jan-KSr.    7'.2         95.3    101.9   116.7    131.4
1976 a 100)
Annual *erenetage chantes in:
Consumer Price Index                30.9       30.2      6.9    14.5       12.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector         35.4    -10.9    -31.2   -67.4
Bank Credic to Private Sector    106.9         -9.2     24.3    83.4
RALANCE OF PAY1[ENTS                    ..RCHANDISE EXPORTS  (AVERAGE  1974-77)
1974   1975   1976   1977                        USS Mln 
Coffee            49.1            56.4
(US $Million)             Tea                 7.5            8.6
gxports of qoods, NFS    58.5   62.8   120.6  134.1   Cassiterite             10.5           12.1
Imports of Goods, NFS    88.0  128.3   158.3  179.2   Wolfram                  5.1            5.9
Rseource Gap                                               Pyrethrum           1.8            2.1
(deficit - -)         -29.5  -65.5   -37.7  -45.1   Cinchona               1.1             1.2
Other              11.9           13.7
Ftetor payments (net)    -2.3    2.8    -3.9   -4.5           Total           87.0          100.0
Nee cransfers              32.1   57.9    58.1   71.9
Jalance on Current
account                  0.3  -10.4    16.5   22.3
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Direct Private Foreign                                                                      USS Mln
Inv.                     2.5    3.5      5.7    4.5
Net )LT Borroving                                          Public Debt, inl. guaranteed  95.-
Disbursements            7.4   13.5    17.9   25.1   Non-Guaranteed Private Doebt
Amortization             0.6    O.:      0.3    1.1   Total Outstanding & Ditbursed
Subtotal                 6.8   13.2    17.6   24.0
EXTERNAL DEBT,
N'T DGZT SERVICF  RATIO FOR  1977 -
Other Capittl (net)
and capital n.e.i.    -13.0    7.0   -11.6  -28.0   Public Debt  ncl. guaranteed             1.0
Increase in Reserves
(-)       3.5  -13.3   -28.2  -22.7   Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total o t3tanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves
(end year)             13.0   25.6    64.3   82.9
Petroleum Imports           4.9    7.4    10.9   11.7
Petroleum Exports           -       -       -       -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                      IBRD/IDA  LENDING   (4ar. 31,1980) (US$ Mm)
Annuel Averages   End Period                                                  IDA
1974-78       March i979   Outstanding & Disbursed                       49. 72
Lwndisbura-d                               38. 83
T.TS  L.00 . RvF         92.84           ?2.34        Outscanding  nc!  tndisburs-d              8
RwF 1.00 . US5            0.011           0.011                                                  88.55
-  s ae ed of hqin* 1913.
W/ Mt seewle net of Imeermet esomed   feee1u esdme reseuwea a pereoptees
of Zxpocto of Goode and Son-fsctor Serwitas.
a net evallabe



_21 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  3  of  5
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TERENCE CRouPS (ADJUSTErD AyRACES
LAND AMOA (INOOSAND SQ. xn.)                  WANDA                           - nST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             26.3                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT RICHER
AGRICULTURAL      15.0                                 MDST RECCNT        OCFAPRIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP It
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   70.0        100.0     180.0  1/        306.1      209.6       467.5
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGiAMS OP COAL EQUIVALEN)                    11.0       17.0            80.6        83.9       262.1
POPULATION ASD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  tID-tEAR (MILLIONS)       2.8         3.6        4.4
0R*N  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.4          3.2        3.7             17.1       16,2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEA 2000 (MILLIONS)                          8.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          25.0
YEAR STATIONAIY POPULATION IS REACED                    2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M.                        106.0       L37.0      167.0 i/         18.4        49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. ACRICLnTURAL LAND    185.0        229.0          S            50.8       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.1        43.8       47.0            44.1        43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                          52.4        53.2      51.0             52.9        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.5         3.0        2.0             2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                               2.2         2.6        2.9             2.7         2.4         2.7
URBN                               11.5         5.3        5.6             5.7         4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TSOUSAND)      51.0        51.0       51.0            46.3        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        22.0       19.0            17.2        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3/f       3.4        3.4             3.1         2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        .                ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
LNDEX oF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           87.2       102.0      103.9            94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    88.0        93.0       90.0            89.5       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)           55.0        62.0       51.3            53.8        52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        35.0       25.0            17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MIRTALITE RATE      41.0        32.0       27.0            22.3        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         42.0       46.0            47.0        49.3        54.7
INFANT  MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              .        127.0         ..               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..       35.0            20.3        26.3        34.4
URsAN                                .           ..       41.0            53.9        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       35.0            10.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUrLATION)
TOTAL                                *-        53.0       57.0            22.5        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                '         83.0      87.0             62.5       65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..        52.0       56.0            13.9         3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         144000.0/b   57900.0   39350.0          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER XURSING PERSON    11680.0Th   20230.0   16000.0            2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..       790.0     580.0            502.3      1417.1       726.5
URBAN                                .           ..      40.0            201.4       197.3       272.7
RURAL                                ..          ..    1540.0           1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8ED            ..        21.2       21.3            23.4       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        .              4.9         5.3         5.4
URsAN                                 .          ..         .              4.9         4.9         5.1
RURAL                                ..          ..       4.5              5.5        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NLSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TQTAL                                           ..             ..         ..
URBAN                                ..          .          ...
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
MTAL                                 ..           ..        ..              ..        22.5        28.1
;RBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..        17.8        45.1
RURAL                                                         -9.9



- 22 -                                        ANEX I
TABLE 3A.                                      YaS    4  of  5
RW5 --SOCIAL IrrDICATORS DATA SH!oET
IWANDA                    REatRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyELCES
- .OST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME       SAME     NEXT MIOrER
MOST ITCr      COCtGAPHIC   INCOME        nlCOM
1960 /b     L970 lb FSTLMATZ /b     REGION /c  GROUP ld   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EXROLL4ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                49 r        70.0      61.0            59.0       63.3        82.7
HALE                 68.0        79.0      66.0           64.2       79.1        87.3
tEALE               30.0        62.0      57.0            44.2       48.4        75.8
SECONDAtY:  TOTAL                 2.0         2.0       *2.0            9.0       16.7        21.4
MAIZ                  2.0         3.0       3.0           12.0       22.1        33.0
FC4ALZ               1.0         1.0       1.0             4.4       10.2        15.5
VOCAT7.ONAL ENROL. (2 OF SZCONMAY) 40.0         12.0      17.0            7.0        5.6         9.8
P?IL-TEACm  RATIO
PILMAAY          -               39.0         60.0     53.0            42.2       41.0        34. L
SECONDARY                        14.0        13.0      15.0            22.9       21.7        23.s
ADULT LITERACT RA:E (PECRZ=T)       16.0/h               23.0            20.8       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PE. ThOUSAD
POPULATION         -              0.4         1.0       1.6             4.0        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVRS P!R TOUSA.D
POPULATION                          ..        8.0      16.0            44.3       27.2        76.9
TV RECETIVE PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        ..             2.9        2.4        13.5
:izWSPAP31 ("DAILY GENERAL
ERST) CIRCULATION PER
TEOUSANO POPULATION                   ..         ..       0.04            5.6        5.3        18.3
CTELMA AiUAL ATTENDANCE P5 CAPITA   ..           ..       14.6            0.4         1.1        2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FtaCE (TOUSADS)       1553.0     1988.0   2253.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 48.7        48.3      48.1            31.9       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PE&CENT)            9f.4        93.2      92.0            77.6       69.4        62.7
UOUSTRY (PERCENT)                 1.1         1.6       3.0             7.9       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              55.4        54.0      53.2            40.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                                57.6        56.5     55.9            53.9       52.4        48.8
?ZMALE                             53.4        51.6      50.6            25.6       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC D3? DENCY RATIO              0.4         0.8       0.9             1.2        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIIUIIO2
PUtCEV OF PRVATE INCOtE
RE=IVED BY
8IC2MST 5 PERCEUT OF SOUSUOLDS      ..         ..        ..              ..         ..        15.2
sCHCS? 20 PECENT OF UOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..        ..              ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PCENT OF ROUSENOLOS       ..         ..        ..              ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT o0 BOOSENOLDS     ..         ..        ..              ..         ..        16.3
POVRTY TARGET CROUPS
EStIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UUAN                               ..          ..     148.0           187.6       99.2       241.3
RURAL                              ..          ..      85.0            96.8       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOMZ
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA.                               ..         ..        ..           138.4       91.9       179.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      43.0            71.0       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION 3ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVER  INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URLAN                              ..          ..      30.0            34.5       44.1        24.8
RURAKL                             ..          ..      90.0            48.7       53.9        31.5
Not available
*   at applicable.
NOTES
/s   The adjusted group averages for each indicacor are population-veighead Seometric smens, excluding the extrome
values oE the indicator and che nost populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among tee
indicators depends on availability of daca and Ls not utLiform.
/b    Unless otbervise noctd, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Mosc Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic  Africa South of Sahara;  /4  Lov Incose (S280 or less per capica, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
72s1-SSO per capica, 1976); 7T   1957;  /L  1964-66;  /h  1962.
most Recent Latiact  of GNP per capita is for 1978.
/ Updated Economic report is currently being prepared and the most recent
estimates are those shown in para. 3 of the present report.



-23 -                                                ANNEXI
nwrmmi or SaUL MIAcnR                                                      Page 5 of 5
3ootes: Although the data ar rw   rom sourcca  genrally judgd the -et nothwitatie and reliabhle, It ebold e)en be aoted thet thap                   an t be interns-
tionell  coapeble beceas  of the lack of  tanda-din-d deinition, and concepts U.ed by different countries in col11rtiag the data. The. data are, nentheleas,
outful to describe ordrer  of  gaitude, indicate trends, and  hertcicin  cetain  ejor differences betwenoanri
The adJusted group avMege  for eab todoator ar  populaion'.wighted geometric ene., exclusdng the eatemm  value. of the indio-tor end the mat pnpulated
oountry in each group.  We to lack of date, grop a-rn.s of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Saperters and of Indicator  of Acceas ts Water an  Iscreta,
Disposal, Sousing, b-ooe Distribution and Poverty for other country groups so  popeulation-welghted geomtric eaS   without salussie  of the extram ven.ed
the moat pop.2ated country.  Since the ooverae of countries Q.A the indicators de,o" en aetiiabit7 of dat en_              so - nif=onramtion  met be exercised
in relatin   veae   ofne indicator to another.  These evwega are metyueula   nolntl     of _ennetod' ALsoswe   aro    h    Isso   n
indicator atatheaonh  couta  an  refernc  eroups.
bIAD AREA (thousad  qtbe.)                                                              Acceose to flcrta  inel(esn.fnsselo)-ttl   rx    n   ae 
t= Total_surface ara- opi           1ad area nod iolad waters.                      Nuster of people  totl   ra,an   ae    ere   yeoet   ipsla
Aerioultudsl - tht enowt catina.. of egroultural are  used teorarily                    percentages of their respective populations. florta dispoa.. ens Winclude
or perw-etly for crops, pastures, eskit and hithen gardens or to                      the  -o11letios and disposal, with or without trseatent, of husou-rrets
lie fellow                                                                            and wate-eater by water-born  syat     or the use of pit pwies and saile
GNP   R CAPI%(US4)                                               ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~installations.
ti    AITA(3)- GiP Per caPita estietes at curret merht pie,                         Popujation 0- Phoi.in  - Population divided by entr of practicing physician
calosltedb  serocvrico aetbd as World Sank Atlas (1976-78 basis);                         - ted  a-  ed cal shooi at univerity lcm]..
i96t, i970, and i976 data.                                      Poenl~~2atio  nrhsgPeon- Population divided by outer of pretieag sale
511100 CGOSUMPTI0tB PED CAPITA - dAnua  -ocsuption of onener-ial energy                   an Mfele graduate eas,patical enree, end assistant ourars
(ca.l and ligaite, potroln   natural gao and hydoc-, ouclea  end ge-Ppltover Hospital Bed - total,tuban  ad  arl   Population (total, urban,
thersal electricit) Io kiiogrsn   of co-  equiraleot per capite; i0                     and r,sra) divided by the;ir respciv   steo hspital besaviabei
1970, end 1976 dais.                                                                    public end private general ed speciali-ed bostpital and rehiilitat io  centers.
Hospitals are pstahliss.tnt p-rennently ateffed by at least one pdsysiia. 
POPUEiATIOI5 ADi VITAL STATISTICS                                                         pattblishnete providing priscipe1ly oustodiel care ar  out included. hR-al
T..   ,1ti.    dY     tullton) - As of July 1; 0960, 1970, end                        hospitals, howevr *include health and aedoal centers oct p-rencnatly ataff.d
5                1977 da~~~ta,                                                                         by a Pkwaieian (but Dy a arcl  sistant, nurs,  ideife, eto.) which offer
r,ban Ppltion (pretof tota1) - Wain of urban to total population;                       ic-patient  -ccudation end provde a hlted range of sedicel facilitie..
difforesutdefinitiono of urban area    y affect cocparability of data               Adadesioss per HosPital fld - Total noebr of adainio.. to or disohargee fron
PdncoZgooaer;10, -17,ad 1975 data,                                                     hospitals divided hy the nobee of beds.
Populatio  is yer 20i00 - Curret popua.ti.o orojctine see base.d on               IflISIR
195tota  populatio  by age and ccc and thvir motaity end fertility            Alerag  hoc of Soshold (persn Ier household) - total, urban, end rura  -
-                   ra~~~~Ites  Projection pareatero for cortality rates  -oprine of three              A     .hunhold conist  ofagru  of individuals who share llivig quarters and
IrolIo anunsing life  op-ctanop at birth increas.ing cith country's                 their nab  acla.  A hoarder or 1oer any or   y acut Dr included in the
Per -cpits incor level, nod fesale life  -coctany  tabilicing at                    household for statistical purpose S.
77.5 pao   The paranet-e  for fortility rate also bnv  thrve levels               Averag  ounter of per2on  per coon- total, urban, and rura  - Avergr nobec
accuing decline in fortuity accoding to i-ce  leve  and pant                        ofpersons er ro-n do al urban  andrura  occpied conveticua  dwellings,
fsedl  clirnig porfornanc. Each coutry in then assigned one of these                reopeoti-ely,  Diseliga include non-peceaent atruoture  and unoccpied porn..
nine  ceinatione of nortolity and fertility trends for proJection                Alcl     oEetiiy(ereto   wlig)-toa,ubn   n   ua    Co-
porpoce.                                                                            cetinl dwelling  nith electriciy 1  liv~ing quarters us perc-tge of
Itatoonoy possulatdoc -Sncstat i-ery population there is no growth                    total, urban, and rura  dwelings repectively.
soethe birt  into inqual to the death rate, and also the age
__icoucea     _nconts_t. Thi on ac-hievd only after fertility rates       EDUCATION
dvclice to the -ep1-cnet lev1 of -it net reproduction rate, ch.n                  Adj'usted  nEulet Patios
_nh  dnrto   f c-r  repl-ce  itoelfeo.sotly.  The stationary pops-                  Priac  schol-ta.  ali andfreely  - iO'a total, sale and fenale  -mii-
intion ohor sac -otinstrd on the b.ci, of the projected charateristics                enofalgsat the~ pre _ylee  us percentages of respectiv  pr ierY
of tho populcilcl in ith  yoor 2000, and tho rote of de-lino of fertility             -oh-i-age populations; n-nely includes children aged 6-li yearn but
rate to replaconet le-                                                                a djusted for different lengths of priesry education; for -ouctrie-  ith
fea  ot.tiocary popultioc ic reactd - The p-ro  uue  stationar.y population             universal Id..ation  nrigtass' e....ed 100 p.eret since sc   popils
odor  u- torn r-shod.                                                                 ore below or shov  its ofcaechoci age.
poondo    esty                                                                  Secoday scol - total. nab  and feenle- Conpted no aoe; secodary
Pee oo. kn. - old-yea  poilotico p-r oquar  tkart-r (ioo he-tare) of                    oduontico rquires ni leat four yer  of approced peonay iorcio
toto1 ....                                                                            provides gener.  voca.tional , or teacher training instrution: for pupulo
Per no. kon. agri-olturi land .Cdnpoted no aboc f or agricultural land                  usually of 12 tv 17 years of age; corsodec -orses                  acedinra1l
only.                                                                                 ecolded.
P.1t.h es-                   -        Children (oi-  yeas,scigaeVocational enrole-nt (cemen..t of .....adsy) - Vocational  institot,con  include
Cl15-64      ,(bad reicv d T65 Yearn andcc    anPercta    of sid-pa                     technical, industrial, or other progr     shich operate independentlyora
_poulatio-; i960, 1970, sod 1977 da.                                                    dryatent  of secondary intitution.
.popultion Cc_vh Psic (p-root) - tota  - n          gl roth catc- of total mid-         Pui-ece-ai      eer.ad seodry- tal students  -clli  in
yerpopultio.o for 1950-tO, 19b0-70, and I 707.prie-y and secodary Ieec1o divided by nubher  of teachers in thecore
poltio Iroc t Pi   percnt   - uba-   ni  growth mien of urban                           sPednleca
popola-ticOc for, 91950-6, 1;96t-70, and 19710-75.1                                    Adlt'dliterac   rate (no-et) - Litortr adu1tn (ahie to read and sitt)a
Crude Birth Onto (per thcocad  - A-oua lice  ntorh  per thono ad of odd-                  a p-coetage of total adult population aged 15 pears nodovr
Year popolstico  190   97,nd 1977 data.
Crude Pratt hate  pritoa    - hocal d-atho per thoocand of  id-poa                  CONSUMPTICON
Population; IOu   97,ad 1977 data                                                   P..ene  Cars (per thousad population) - pansenger oar  ... prise  -tcrne
iroo PyvouctonRater-hoerM   nochn  of d-ght-Ir  a   -os  oill b-s                  ceathog lens than right pesos;ecludes eahlanoe, hears   and silitary
Ino h-r oco   rprod-tice p-riod if cl,v v-perc-no   pre..c.i oge-                     -hdicle..
ooIfo  frt ilitproton;  -o1niy five-pc-  -rIgc- coding or i960,                     hadlo Pe_civer   cc  thousad population) - All types of rIecr   c  radio
I97,  ndi75                                                                           b-odoatta to g.enra1 public poe thousand of popointios; rooude _ulice_-d
Fanily Plnoing   A- dcptor.. dcA-   (thounands) - A.nn  ouster of                       revolvrs in cootries and in years sh.. regjItratin of radio Ieto  cas it
-copt-e  of birth-cotrol dovic'ounder auspice  of  ation3l facily                     effoct; dntn for recent pears say not be coeovble sinc   -tz -ountrien
pianni-  Pro,o                                                                        abolished licensIing.
faiYPnnig-or,(percnt of  -seiod ucoc) - P-retagr of sariod                         TV hecciver   pee thousand population) - TV rcionfor b-oIosut to generl
scrn.f ohild b-tiardg s   (15-44 pram)~ utohco  bieth-on-trol decirn                public per thoused population; includes anldoe...ed TV recei-ers i countries
to all eneied   ...e in non  age group.                                               and do yi-r  ohc -egit-ation of TV sets ens is effet.
dSTh 55'JTO0010Is                                            ~~~~~~~~NIEssac Cicltin(    thounsuo  pujultios) - fho-nthb  a-cge circultion
__________________                                                 o~~~~~~~~~~~~f4dail  gosa   otes   eaae    I detni ope . dion1 pibli-ntiOs
T.d- of rood P-oduti-o per Capita (1979-71=iO0) - loden of per c-pits                   d-vtoc  prinaily to recoding general no.   It is onnidrcd to he "dnily'
anulrducti on ofallf fod cosooditi-  Production  -rlud- aced and                  if It appears at lenot four ti-. sneerk.
fedadc o   nvdrpertnn   Cooiincoe   rnc  goody                                    lne    ouAl--   Attend--o per Capita eec Year -Based on thc scs,r of tickets
(e.g.  uaraei-te-d of vogar obiob arc edible and cools in note rint                   soldurnthpe, inolddig adeiuicac to deic-in ci-ea  and nubile
(-g. offen sd ten see  -cclded).  Aggeegate productio  of vacth country               _din-gt~y
di toe 00 natica acreage 71 producer, pic- srightto.
Pee capita  upp ly of c_oico_ (pecent of e-qui-eets) - Cospted fr..               LABOR FhORCE
riegy vquiv-l-t of net food  uppIiec a-ilbtle in  -outrp poe capits               Total Labor Por   (thousands) - &-oni-Ioaly n-tiv- persons, i-cldino arod
p_c dy. hv_cls,ie soppli-  -oprin- do-etic production, sports loss                  forces ad  neeployd tot e..cIuding hnusoiv-, students, etc. Prf itiiI.i
_copoto, and ohang-end  cocc.  Net noppl-e  -ocldv anion] fed, scod.,               in cuiousI-ot-r  arc not -oepe.cbhlv.
quc ttio  se  is food pr-coing, and 1__cincdioIt-bution. P,equire-          Pcal    recent) - Pren1  labor forco apev-ntage of total labor force
centccv riistv~d by rhO hived on phipooclgicad o..cdt fr.  nornal                 $g:ro16ueajer_et( - Labor force in famin.g, foctry, hunting and
octicity hod hca1thco-_ide-tg  -oir-nrta1 teop-rstor, hodp oviato,                  fluting at peevestge of total labor force
oc and co  dcciributio-of poposti-o, and olloadog 10 prevet for                   Iodostry (percent) - La~bor foco.i elig  c.astruotioc,  sofactoring and
onote at ht..nehod Io",                                                           enlectricity,Rastor and'gas no percntge of total labor forc..
Pcr -apito noplY of protein (ge-  Pee day) - Pro~iviecotet ,0 per                   Pticientica hte (Peret  -ttl  e ,ad fenale -  a-ti-opation or
capita cot I.pply of food per day. Net oupply of Fond on donned annticity rates are coe=td anttl  ml,ad foale labor force as per-
above  _eui tooi  for all cntrien -otblishvd hy USDA p-oide for a                   ceiag- of total, sale and freale population of all age  respectively;
eo 1eoo -locn-e of i0 neans of total protein per dy and 20 gene  cf             190, 1970, and 1975 data.  The ar  ILOn participation rates reflecting
anionS and poie p-oteio, of which 10 Urn  should b eanieal protein,                 sgo c-eIt_utur, of thepopolatica, and long tiec trend.  A few Intimates
Then- otand-rd  see bor  than thone of 75 gcne  of total protein and                arc fru        ..naidono   so e.
23 gran  of aninol p-otrin an an  verge for the -oeld, proposed by Phi            Pooncalo DProedenvy Patio - hatio of popoloion onder 15 and 65 and over to
-                   cc~~~~ tihe Third Wonr  Pood Sure,                                                  the labor force ha age group of 15-64 years.
Pee cociti heoteic  upI   -frn  nca  vd polur - Protelo oupply of food
d-c mor  from -tial  an ulv  10INCOMevdE.                                             DOSTRISITl0B
fhild (ag- i-u) Naoetlt   at  pcthcunand - Ahomosal denthin per thucand               Percetag  of Private Ionde (both is oc.h and hind) - RI-clvd by cicheat
mc soy group 1-4 yc-r, to ohtld-co iv thin son grop; foe moat devel-                  5 prunt, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, sod poorest 4id percen.t
opi.g --ot-ie  dotsi d-riov  from life tblen.                                         of housholds .
iHIATH                                                                                POVERTY' TARGET GhiliPS
lif Elp hoccooo  at Birth  ypcarn  - Overage  ob- cf pear  of Lifo                    Intisted Absolute Pbvrtp Ino-  level (00$ per capita) - urban and rural 
evuaoin  atthro; 10,  970  and 1977. dt ddAIoiute povety i-oe  lewd  ho that invon  leve  beb1u which a ni.inl
iofant Msrtal,ty hate (Per itounand) - On9-a md-tho of infanin under one                nutrition ally adequnte diet plmon ranvtia1 non-food requirncts on cot
pear of ocr P" thcunond lice binto,                                                   affordable.
ho-cocto Safe Water' (prr.iotpplio-total, urban  and rura  -                            Icouinted Re1tive Poverty Iocon  leve,l (UIS! poe capita) - urban and rurl
Nudroo      vpe  ttl   ra,  n   ua    u  re'LaIc acesi                                 urlrltv  poery  oca  Leve  doi ocr-third of averge Pee capita
o-fe o_te  opplyt(includ-c treatod ourfav  eaten  or untreatedbut                     petrsonal i-co   of the coutry. Urban level is dericed frye the rura  leve
-noctonlntvd ctr coo  nothat fr.. pectooted  .horeoi-, oprings,                       cit  adju'tnnt for higher coot of living do urbanaes
and naItnep   l1s) no Percetage, of ithe-e  -epeclive ppulationo. In                Entisated Population dBslo Absolute PocetyIncm-        evl(rn)- ra  and
aurban aresIapublic fountain or  tiandpost located noct acr  than                   rura  - Percet of populatics (uban ad rual  gh   r    bolut  por.
POlO stcrofrosf-  ou h op.  -  be  osdrda  being sithin reaso.nable
Io         be f  ht h..-ne.  -1rua  orean  eaonable aces  ocLd lply
that lie hounoife or cobv-  of the houc-hold do cot have to spend a                                                         EDionic and Social Data Dociuion
dineroportio..ote part of the dp at fetoting the fanlip' sontoc nerds                                                  r-nooal  Acoalysic and Projections Dpryteest
August 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                     IDA     Undisbursed
(Three credits have been fully disbursed)                         13.10
196-RW          1970        Rwanda      Kigali-Gatuna
Road Construction         18.80        .15
567-RW          1975           "        Education                  7.90        5.17
655-RW          1977          "         DFC I                      4.00         .46
656-RW          1977           "        Agriculture Cinchona       1.80        1.22
668-RW          1978          "         Bugesera
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development         14.00       7.77
769-RW          1978        Rwanda      Road Maintenance          15.00       10.11
896-RW          1979          "         DFC II                     5.20        5.20
937-RW 1/       1979          "         Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development Project       8.75        8.75
Total                                             88.55       38.83
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
1/   Not yet effective.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for a tea factory were approved in June 1979.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
Credit No. 196-RW    Kigali-Gatuna Project; US$9.3 million credit of
June 17, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: Septembe- 15, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977;
US$9.5 Million supplementary credit of December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consisted of building a paved road to link Kigali
with the Uganda Road system, thus reducing by 73 km the road distance to
Kampala through which most Rwandese imports and exports pass on their way to
the port of Mombasa. Construction works were interrupted in April 1975
because of a cost overrun amounting to about US$16.0 million, including a
foreign exchange component of US$13.7 milion. A supplementary IDA credit of
US$9.5 million was made in 1976 of which US$8.7 million was earmarked for the
completion of the Kigali-Gatuna road and the remainder to finance additional
costs under the Highway Maintenance Project of 1972, which has now been
completed. The cost overrun is cofinanced with a US$5.0 million loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development.  The works are now nearing completion.   It is
expected that the road will be accepted by the Government before June 30,
1980.
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the construction, furnishing and equipment
of 150 workshops for about 6,000 students and of a print shop, and the
provision of paper for production and distribution of text books written
in Kinyarwanda. The project also provides technical assistance to the school
financing and construction unit (SFCS), which was established under the project
and is functioning satisfactorily. The design and construction standards of
the workshops are simple and solid, and the buildings are well-built. Construc-
tion of the office building for the SFCS has been completed and construction
of the print shop is nearing completion. Following an in-depth review: (i)
the number of workshops to be financed under the credit were increased from
150 to about 250; (ii) an amount of US$130,000 was cancelled because of
misprocurement of certain construction materials; and (iii) an amount of
about US$1.75 million, improperly disbursed, will be restituted to the project
by the Government through a temporary reduction of the agreed disbursement
percentages. Because of misprocurement of paper, IDA recently communicated
to the Government its decision to cancel $1.4 million from the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evalution of strengths



_ 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 655-RW      Rwandese Development Bank Project: US$4.0 Million;
Credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This credit to the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) is
intended to help meet the foreign resources requirements of this institution
which provides long-term financing to the main productive sectors in Rwanda.
This project is proceeding satisfactorily, and the credit is now fully
committed.
Credit 656-RW          Cinchona Project; US$1.8 Million credit of August 20. 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project, which is to be carried out over a period of five years,
will provide agricultural inputs, extension, marketing and other services to
smallholders to assist in the expansion of Cinchona production for export.
Project staff has been appointed and an expatriate cinchona expert has been
hired to visit Rwanda from time to time to give advice on cinchona production.
The most serious difficulty concerns a fungal disease in seed beds, but this
is being solved. World market prices for derivates have been falling signi-
ficantly over the last year. It is envisaged that the price paid to farmers
for bark will be lowered and that bark will be locally processed to render
cinchona grown in Rwanda more competitive on the world market.
Credit 668-RW          Bugesera Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project; US$14.0 Million credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two regions and the strengthening of the central services
responsible for rural development. The project includes tse tse control,
field extension and infrastructure, provision of farm inputs on credit,
construction and improvement of feeder roads and water facilities, schools,
health centers, establishment of two cattle ranches and a study for an
irrigation project. The project is cofinanced with BADEA (US$5.0 million
equivalent for livestock development), Belgium (US$0.9 million equivalent
for water facilities) and France. The Ministry of French cooperation is
providing seven of the nine experts required by the Project. Satisfactory
progress has been made with start-up activities, including programming of
work, budgeting, procurement and construction. Arrangements for the prepara-
tion of a second phase project are underway.



- 27 _
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Proiect; US$15.0 Million credit
of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are in the field and are performing
satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment is in progress. On the suggestion
of the Association, an expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda
for three weeks in June 1978 and recommended that one mechanized unit be
replaced by one unit utilizing labor intensive methods. Following the con-
sultant's recommendation, the Government decided to introduce labor-intensive
methods for road maintenance.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project: US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US5 million which
would finance 67 percent of BRD's foreign exchange requirements in 1979 and
1980; and (b) a feasibil ty study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). The Credit Agreement became effective on January
1980.
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million credit of June 30, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: June2. 1980:
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will be the second phase of a long-term development
program for the Mutara region. It will develop techniques, procedures,
and an institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve
the production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive
use of available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and
integrate the project into the local administration. The credit is not
yet effective, but project implementation has started under financing
by the Project Preparation Facility.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project
Phase I
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission                         July 1977
(b)  Appraisal Mission                              July 1979
(c)  Negotiations                                   April 1980
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                  November 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
A.   Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)  that the Borrower had taken all necessary act on to designate
the areas selected for afforestation in Kigali and Butare
Prefectures as national plantations, define the development
objectives of the Gishwati Forest, and outline the procedures
for the development and management of those plantations
(paras. 35 and 40);
(b)  that a Project Account had been established and a
minimum balance of US$100,000 paid up by the Government
(para. 56);
(c) that the Project Management Committee had been established
(para. 47); and
(d) that the Project Coordinator, the Administrative and
Financial Director and his deputy had been appointed
(para. 48).
B.   Special Conditions of Credit Disbursement would be:
(a) For the Kigali/Butare subproject, that the subproject
Director as well as his two deputies (one for Kigali
and one for Butare) had been appointed; (para 48) and



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) for the Gishwati subproject, that the subproject Director,
the silviculturist, the livestock specialist and their
deputies had been appointed (para. 48).






I B R D 14527R
29~~~~~~'O0  RWANt)A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARtCH 1980
INTEGRATED fORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK
DEvELOPMENT PROJECT 
P?OJET,0 DE QOVFIPPFMENT SYLVOPASITORAL
GISHWATI; SUB-PRO)ECT                                                                           UGANDA
SOU$-PROILTr DE lSH WA TI
GiswW F restserve                                    ZAI        E 
Ae~v  ForeslirE de   hR-   I                                                                     Kobcle
Zone of livesiook devetopen
Forest reserve- devilopmetsecfor boun4ories
____   tory mek~~
Main roads
____Secondary roads
s'Roies sectvda(tes                                                                                        j j
Rivers
r30  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rivieres                   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'30U'
preeoure cop'ttais                                                                        uhengeri       
* =rift~             J                                                  *uhngr
PrefkWtreI*     rib
Internotional boundar'e
0Karogo 
j *f~~~~~VO
CAST   'Kabaya   ciy
th, t eekit Ro fmbse
so,seaonssee' ed te         Vi                                                               0Rmb
o    Reo,tseo esoAl N- DsAdKigoli
-  ~~~~~~~~~~  200 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~MLE                                                            '            260
L   *1Caguu2'0






|   -               1 *                                       'I                         25I o        jV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  T  Mbtirotto &EtKsi,g
INTEGRATED  FORESTRY AND  LIVESTOCK                   ,GANfDA                                                . -
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                              '
PROIEr 2DC OEVELOPPEMEAr SYWVC`A 50,AfAL                                   (
GishwtO Fq,4t Reservet_, ,r . - w9,                                                                                                       T-   ZA         IA
Gtshwafi Su-marvtcrtS boundo-,y                                            ,                 \                t)/                         T A N ZE A N  I A
!EPUBLIC OF~~REUBI 
ZAIRAER
.           iS~~~~omtsaevfa yt, &'   crtforo  .~? '"x            I                             \   onwv                   ,          I/'        ' 
~~~~~< f~~~~~~~~~Rh
-  *  ef"Stau  &/softtevaesst - . / , f W i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u    M      J,B   A    
____________________ _                                                      G    E '  /                                             W I,
4                                                                                                N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.   -    .~~~~~~~~~~t                     -                                                                                                                        O   _    If <     * _(  
$$f ; f O;    ;'W   0   -000  0 . 0000.000  00<0  Xf>            f\f          8                                   9   _\ ><                                     
R-EPUBLIC 'OiF  - r   k v
ftAlRE - X \ 8 St::} 9 1- K IJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB U N G,, 
- oOOfoooOo*.oO, - 0-  -  . , 0~p0$ .4~00&0 -0$                                -  .                                                                   r -   .  .i    KI B  U  Y  ANZA
0*0   -   -   o.. ff 0 / ,. J                                          G     I   T  R  A    M    A                             K,buOg W   0f  -
4)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N &                               G 0 R /                                                  ;
| 0 d ''; '' <   A N G G IJ                                   oX1 t 81~~~~~~~~~~~ A R E
X :'  ,  ,- >B  sf 2 -2 ./  /  -o-. - N.::" tjwl"Il,/ l ............. 6, ''''  '+ ',,' 'U,; , 'f 
;  X i  -  Q :) u  t  ! g 5 . . .  .  . , .: . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:i
^                                                                                                       a   .    D  .    5   d  -    -    t   -    tX    0    -   t7.   s . . - : - t. ,. . ; . ; X . X f; O .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,  
hS<^'t t fi 'S t s f"fi>t ' tS t U ff T N ' t )- < - - - t g = q X-s.NCL4A<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8Lfdbo16Nf L         #$bj                                                                              fg         ,....  r/f  r D  '4  N       J&t.Ar j 
anvs rgwK sen ff te ffrw uffff  e efervwL <>^* ^L . .. ,  . .f 6 .e - E .......................................... - -fs c
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U N*u.. r., -    ''i jW:' , :.  .;'':D0:    D 



