Document of
The World Bank                        FILE Copv
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2868a-RW
RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 9, 1980
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          Rwandese Francs (RF)
US$1.00                                RF 92
RF 1                                   US$0.0109
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                 3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                              2.47 2cres
1 are                                       100 m  = 0.03 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )          =         0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                             2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                                 0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (Imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          African Development Bank
FRG          Federal Republic of Germany
BGM          Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project
ISAR         Institute of Agricultural Sciences of Rwanda
(Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda)
MAI          Mean Annual Increment (Volume increment p.a.)
SCIM or      Stacked Cubic Meter (equivalent to approximately 0.7
Stère        cubic meter solid)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
PU           Project Unit
PPF          Projet Pilote Forestier
PRODEFOR     Projet de Developpement Forestier



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
I.   BACKGROUND                                         ........ .............  1
A.   Project Background 1..... 
B.   The Agricultural Sector                                              2
Il.   THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR ..........                         .......         8
-lII.   THE PROJECT ..........                                         .  .      15
A.   Objectives and Strategy                                             15
B. General Description .16
C.   The Project Areas (Map 14528) ....................e.                17
D.   Detailed Features                 *.es ..... ... ........           20
E.   Project Costs ..............  .........  ........ O..               28
F.   Financing ndAit..................                  ..........       30
Go   Procurement                          ........ .-...... *K-....    31
H.   Diabursements ...........  ...... 31
le   Accounts and Audit             .....32
J.   Environmental Impact                                  ......        32
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................ .    32
A.   Project Organization and Staffing (Chart I) ........                32
B.    Project Implementation (Chart Il).....                             37
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation, and Reporting                            37
V.   TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS ........................                 38
A.   Kigali/Butare Fuelwood and Pole Sub-Project ........                38
B.    Gishwati Integrated Forestry
and Livestock Development Sub-Project ............               40
C.   Producer Benefits .........             ............ .. ...         44
VI.   GOVERNMENT BENEFITS .................. o............ o .....    44
VII.   MARKETS AND PRICES             ...................       .      ....      45
VIII.   BENEFITS, RISKS, AND JUSTIFICATION ......................                  47
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS .................                 49
This document hus à restrictkd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lu contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Iank authorization.



-ii-
Supporting Schedule, Tables and Charts
Page No.
SCHEDULE 1 - Schedule of Key Rwandese Staff
Appointments                                         52
TABLES
1.  Summary of Project Costs                                    53
2. Preparatory Phase - Detailed Project Costs
and Financing                                              54
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                         55
4.  Economic Analysis                                           56
5.  Government Project-Related Cash Flow                        57
CHARTS
I.     Project Organization and Staffing                        58
II.    Project Implementation Schedule                          59
III.   Project Implementation Schedule -
Preparatory Activities                                  60
List of Materials Available in the Technical Annexes               61
MAPS    IBRD 14527R
IBRD 14528R



RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Background
1.01      A Forestry Project was identified in 1977, following discussions
with the Government of Rwanda in the course of 1976. The Project was pre-
pared during 1978, essentially by an IDA preparation mission with participa-
tion of Rwandese forestry technicians. The Government had initially defined
two major objectives: (a) to initiate a eucalyptus plantation program around
Kigali for charcoal production; and (b) to initiate a pine plantation program
in the Gishwati forest reserve to develop the saw timber production capacity
of Rwanda. During a visit to-Washington in May 1979, Government officials
also expressed an interest in extending the eucalyptus plantation program
to other areas of Rwanda, namely Butare, and in including a rural woodlot
component. The present report is based on the findings of an IDA mission
which visited Rwanda in June/July 1979 to complete the project preparation
and appraise the project. The mission included D. Lallement, N. Brouard, and
S. Foster (IDA). A post-appraisal mission composed of D. Lallement (IDA),
J. Le Hasif and J.L. Houdry (consultants) visited Rwanda in November/December
1979 to complete the appraisal of the livestock component and of the Project
preparatory phase.
1.02      The scope of the Project was substàntially changed during final
preparation and appraisal. A new component Vas added to the fuelwood and
pole plantation program to include a reforestation program around Butare and a
pilot rural woodlot program. The approach for the development of the Gishwati
Forest Reserve vas significantly changed fr*m pure silvicultural development
to integrated silvicultural and livestock dqvelopment. The objective was to
protect and to make optimal use of the land resources in the forest area, and
to provide a long-term solution to maintain the existing livestock activity.
The Government had just completed a separate livestock project proposal for
the Gishwati area which the missions were able to take into account in the modification
of Project design. A major institution-building component was also
added to the Project to strengthen and develop the Forestry Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and to prepare the ground for the
development of a forestry policy and legislation in Rwanda. These changes in
the scope of the Project were agreed upon by Government in the course of the
appraisal and post-appraisal missions. Government has recently evidenced its
commitment to the Project by initiating preparatory activities and appointing
nev staff to the forestry services.
1.03      To date, the Bank Group has financed four agricultural development
projects in Rwanda. The Mutara Agricultural Development Project - Phase I
(Credit 439-RW) was financed by an IDA Credit of US$3.8 million, and is fully
disbursed. The Cinchona Project (Credit 656-RW) is supported by an IDA Credit



of US$1.8 million, and the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project-BGM (Credit
668-RW) received an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million. These two projects are
progressing well and the BGM project is noteworthy in that the flexibility
in project design has facilitated an effective dialogue with the Government
on all project issues and has made possible careful modificationo of project
design in accordance with implementation experience. An IDA Credit of US$8.9
million for the Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project - Phase
Il (Credit 937-RW) was signed on July 13, 1979, and implementation is beginning.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
1.04      Rwanda is a small, land-locked country on the Zaire-Nile divide in
Central Africa. Its population of about 4.8 miYlion is increasing at 2.9%
annually. -With a total area of about 26,000 km , the population density is
183 per km2 , the highest in continental Africa. Rwanda borders upon Uganda to
the north, Tanzania to the east, Burundi to the south, and Zaire to the west. The
nearest major seaport is Mombasa, Kenya, over 1,700 km away by road and rail;
almost all imports and exports are trucked between Mombasa and Rwanda, a three
day journey. The route goes through some unstable areas such as Uganda,
thereby increasing uncertainty and losses by theft, hijacking etc. Kigali
(pop. 118,000) and Butare (pop. 22,000) are the two major urban centers in
Rwanda, and over 95% of the population lives in rural areas.2 Within the rural
areas, the population density var es greatly, from 87 per km  in the eastern
part of the country to 328 per km in Butare prefecture. Rwanda is one of the
world's poorest nations and per capita GNP was US$180 in 1978; real GNP growth
in the past decade has not kept up with population increase. Although the
population is relatively cohesive and homogeneous both ethnically and in terms
of living conditions, income distribution is skewed between rural and urban
areas; while the national average GNP per capita is US$180, the average rural
per capita GNP is estimated at not much more than US$100.
1.05      Rwanda is generally hilly, with elevation and rainfall gradually
increasing from east to west. Three major climatic and geographic areas
can be discerned. The eastern zone is a savannah region with low rainfall
(700-1,000 mm) and long, marked dry seasons. The altitude averages 1,000-
1,500 m. The natural vegetation consists mostly of tall grasses and acacia
trees. The east is the least populated area of Rwanda, principally because
of the lower rainfall, and, until recently, the presence of the tsetse fly.
The central high plateau zone is a densely populated area of rolling hills
1,500 to 2,000 m in elevation, with a rainfall of 1,500-2,000 mm. The moun-
tainous western zone includes the Zaire-Nile divide and the volcanic region
to the north. The region is generally above 2,000 m average in elevation, has
a rainfall of 1,500 mm or more, and a cool climate; parts of this zone are
very densely populated. Of the total land area of Rwanda, only about 30% is
suitable for cultivation, 22% is pastureland, 6% is forest, and the rest
is classified as unusable land.



3-
1.06       Agriculture is the most important sector of Rwanda's economy,
and it contributed about 50% of GDP in 1978, three quarters of which was
from subsistence crops. Over 90% of the population is engaged in agriculture,
and agricultural exports provide two-thirds of total export earnings; coffee alone
represents over half of total export earnings. Imports for 1977 totalled
US$115 million, of which 11% was spent on food. In spite of the importance
of agriculture to Rwanda, until recently investment in the sector has been
minimal. This situation is changing, however, and about one third of planned
investment for 1977-81 is earmarked for agriculture.
1.07      In Rwanda, agriculture is the province of small farmers who use
traditional cultivation methods on plots which average one hectare in size.
The use of modern techniques and inputs is virtually non-existent, although
the results of extension efforts are visible in certain areas.
Land Tenure
1.08      By law, all land in Rwanda belongs to the Government; unused and
uncultivated land can be used by the Government for any purpose. However,
most landholding is actually governed by both traditional law and modern
regulations. Traditional land tenure practice allows individual usufruct
rights to continuously cultivated land. All pasture land is communally held.
Most cultivated land can be passed on to heirs; it is rarely sold for cash.
Farmers in organized settlement schemes (paysannats) enter into a contract
with the Government which grants them the use of a 2 hectare plot; the
settlers may not sub-divide their plots among their children. The Government
has indicated its intention of establishing a land reforn policy which would
include:  (1) full use of all agricultural land so that land cannot be set
aside by prominent landowners for their children; (2) discouragement of
cumulative land acquisition by non-farmers; and (3) regrouping of small farms
and pieces of land to form larger, consolidated units. To-date, however,
little has been done to bring about these changes. Cultivated land under
usufruct rights may be acquired by the Government, in which case compensation
is paid on the basis of the crops planted, type and number of trees, type
of dwelling, etc. Other land, however, may be taken over without compensation
to the local coamunity.
Agricultural Production
1.09      Rwanda is fortunate in having relatively good soils and favorable
climatic conditions which allow two crops per year in most areas. The varia-
tions in elevation and climate allow a wide range of crops to be grown.
Subsistence or food crops grown at lover elevations include beans, maize,
sorghum, bananas, sweet potatoes, groundnuts, and cassava. The principal
food crops grown at higher elevations are peas, potatoes, and sweet potatoes.
Cash crops, which account for about 70% of export earnings, include coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, and cinchona. About 95% of cultivated land is planted with
food crops, with an estimated one quarter of this area under bananas, most
of which are used to produce beer. Crop yields are low, and practically no
fertilizers are used. Research indicates, however, that yields could be



- 4 -
substantially increased with improved cultivation techniques, better seeds,
and the application of fertilizer. Rwanda coffee is of good quality; about
35,000 ha are planted in coffee by some 450,000 farmers.
Livestock
1.10      Livestock has traditionally been seen as a symbol of wealth, rather
than as a productive, integral part of the agricultural system. With the
increase in population and the land shortage, more and more grazing land has
been brought under cultivation, causing overgrazing and destruction of the
remaining pasture land. Consequently, in spite of improved animal health,
the national cattle herd of Rwanda has been decreasing.  In 1977 there were
about 640,000 head of cattle, as compared to 750,000 in 1975. Cattle raising
in Rwanda is still organized along traditional lines for milk and meat produc-
tion. The numbers of small livestock, however, are increasing, in particular
pigs and rabbits. Goats and sheep, which provide most of the meat consumed in
rural areas, numbered about 730,000 and 260,000 respectively, in 1977. In
spite of the severe lack of grazing land, few cattle are stall-fed, although
most goats and sheep are kept tethered. A major intensification effort has
begun throughout the country involving stall-feeding of livestock on forage
crops such as Setaria and Pennisetum. The manure is used as organic fertil-
izer for crops. Much still remains to be done in this area, but initial
farmer response has been encouraging. Animal health infrastructure is rela-
tively good but veterinary products are often lacking. Milk production is
low, estimated at about 64 million liters in 1977, of which about one-third
was for human consump'ion. Meat production was estimated at 12,000 tons
carcass weight in 1977.
Other Agricultural Resources
1.11      Most of Rwanda's fish catch is taken in the lakes.  The 1977 fish
catch was estimated at 1,450 tons, of which roughly one third was from Lake
Luhondo and one third from Lake Kivu. Fish pond production is negligible.
Some recent studies have indicated the presence of a much greater fish re-
source in Lake Kivu than had previously been evaluated, and the Government
plans to develop this resource further. The forestry sub-sector is described
in Chapter Il.
Marketing and Prices
1.12      Most foodcrop production is consumed on the farm, and only an
estimated 37% is marketed. Only beans, peas, and potatoes are effectively
distributed. Banana beer is the most widely traded item, used to generate
cash for urgent needs and in exchange for labor or goods within rural communi-
ties. Trade in foodcrops is increasing, however, especially in response to
growing demand from towns such as Kigali and Butare. The Government has
encouraged this trend and has attempted to promote regional specialization
through various administrative changes, especially the creation of marketing
organizations and cooperatives. Prices vary substantially according to the
season, and farmers who have no way of storing their production or who sell



- 5 -
their harvest for quick cash are often forced to buy part of it back later at
twice the price they received. Several storage programs are under way to
enable farmers to store their harvest for a nominal fee, thereby enabling
them to take out food and seed as needed and contributing to the stabilization
of prices. Another attempt at price stabilization is the creation of a
National Price Commission, which was set up to establish minimum producer
prices and maximum consumer prices; its effectiveness, however, has been
limited. Cash crop marketing and some processing are regulated by the parastatal
organizations (para. 1.19). Coffee, for example, is supposed to be sold
by farmers only to accredited merchants or cooperatives, after which it is
sent to processing factories in Kagali and exported by OCIR, a Darastatal
organization.
Development problems
1.13      Rwanda will continue to be primarily an agricultural country for
many years to come. The future prosperity of its people will therefore have
to come from increased agricultural production, but in view of the serious
problems in the agricultural sector and Rwanda's rapidly growing population,
it will be a major challenge simply to maintain present income levels. Agri-
culture in Rwanda must deal with one unchangeable constraint: the shortage
of available land. Increased production will have to come from intensifica-
tion, not from putting more land into production. Intensification will mean
use of new cultivation methods, anti-erosion techniques, improved seeds, and
fertilizer; integration of animal husbandry with crop production through
stall-feeding and manure collection; use of agricultural residues as compost
and mulch rather than as a source of domestic fuel; and planting of fuelwood,
building pole and fruit tree species around farm boundaries and homesteads.
Intensification requires a major extension effort; major progress has been
achieved in recent years in various projects throughout the country in farmers'
adoption of some intensification measures, in particular the planting of
anti-erosion fodder strips.
Government Strategy and Plans for Agricultural and Rural Development
1.14      The Government of Rwanda has defined the broad objectives for
agricultural and rural development in the Second Five Year Plan for 1977-81.
Four essential goals are identified:
(i) meeting the population's nutritional requirements;
(ii) promoting better utilization of human resources;
(iii) improving individual and collective living conditions; and
(iv) improving Rwanda's international trade position.
The Plan emphasizes the importance of agriculture in Rwanda's economy, and
the priority to be given to this sector, in particular to integrated rural
development as one of the means of agricultural growth. The Plan recognizes,
however, that diversification is necessary within the sector.



- 6 -
1.15      The specific objectives for agriculture for 1977-81 stated in the
Plan are as follows. The agricultural sector as a whole would grow at 5.0%
p.a. as compared to 7.1% and 7.2% respectively for the secondary and tertiary
sectors. Subsistence crop production would increase at 3.8% p.a. as compared
to 12.7% for export/industrial crops, 11.9% for animal products, and 37% for
fish. Value added for new traditional crops such as oilseeds (groundnuts,
soybeans), potatoes, wheat, rice and vegetables would grow at higher average
rates than other subsistence crops. Likewise for livestock products: beef
and mutton would only grow at 3.6% p.a. as compared to 22.6% p.a. for pork,
poultry, eggs, and milk. Among export crops, value added for relatively new
crops such as cinchona, cotton and sisal, medicinal or essential oils, plants,
tobacco, etc. would grow at higher rates than traditional crops such as
coffee, tea and pyrethrum. Rural income would increase by 4.2% p.a. For the
1977-81 period, the share of agriculture in total national investment would
average 8.5%, of which 89% would be financed from external sources, public
(65%) and private (35%).
1.16      The Plan recognizes that these targets will be difficult to achieve.
The only chances of success would come from a combined effort of the entire
population. The communes should become the major catalyst for development,
as they provide a solid framework for the people to work on improving their
individual or collective environment. The Umuganda system, whereby each
adult contributes half a day of labor a week to a collective project, could
be a means to develop social services in local communities. The development
of cooperatives would also be emphasized, mainly to encourage the production
and marketing of agricultural inputs and produce. The Plan also emphasizes
the need to develop better technical services for agriculture. The communes
would assume part of the training responsibilities by establishing develop-
ment centers where training sessions would be given to selected farmers who
would themselves become the promoters of technological improvement in their
community.
1.17      Intensification of production along the lines described in para 1.13
would be the focal point for crop and livestock development, given the land
constraints and limited possibilities for opening or reclaiming new lands for
cultivation. Other measures would include carrying out further research on
higher yielding varieties, and increasing livestock productivity by expanding
extension and veterinary services, and developing fodder production and
upgrading the genetic value of the herd.
Government Services
1.18      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.  The Ministry is responsible
for all activities related to agriculture in Rwanda. The Minister is assisted
by a Secretary General, who coordinates and oversees the activities of the
Secretariat and of the four General Directorates (Directions Generales) of
Agronomy, Rural Engineering and Soil Conservation, Livestock, and Land.
The Director General of Agronomy is responsible for two departments, Agricul-
tural Extension and Waters and Forests. The organization of the Department of
Waters and Forests is discussed below (para. 2.08). All prefecture and



- 7 -
commune agronouists, as well as forestry and fishery officers are responsible
to the Directorate of Agronomy.  Agricultural services are regionalized
at the prefecture and commune levels. The Ministry also oversees the work of
some parastatal organizations (para. 1.19), the research institutions, and
regional development agencies. It also operates a Selected Seeds Service for
the production and sale of improved seed varieties.
1.19      Parastatal Institutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
oversees the work of the five parastatal agencies. The largest is OCIR
(Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda) which is responsible for quality
control, conditioning, and marketing control of exports of coffee, tea,
pyrethrum, and cinchona. OCIR is completely responsible for tea production;
it does not market coffee but controls the one authorized exporter and sets
producer prices. OPROVIA (Office National pour le Developpement et la
Commercialisation des Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales) is
responsible for the procurement, processing, and marketing of food crops and
livestock. It has so far limited its activities mainly to the handling and
distribution of food donations.
Agricultural Research
1.20      ISAR, the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda, is respon-
sible for agricultural research and has received considerable Belgian assis-
tance. ISAR's crop and livestock research is satisfactory but its findings
are not effectively disseminated to farmers. ISAR's Rubona research station
has done some work on forestry and employs an expatriate forest researcher.
The land at Rubona is considerably more fertile and more easily planted than
most of the land now available for forestry development. Also, more research
is required on the non-agricultural lands which could be devoted to forestry.
The Swiss-financed Pilot Forestry Project at Kibuye (para 2.15) has also done
research on nursery techniques, selection of species to be planted, road
construction, costs and yields, and on ways to increase the awareness of the
population about forestry development.
Agricultural Training
1.21      Three institutions are responsible for providing post secondary
agricultural training in Rwanda. The Agronomy Faculty of the National Univer-
sity of Rwanda at Butare is being developed with Canadian aid to train agricul-
tural engineers and zootechnicians; the first class graduated in 1977. The
School of Agriculture, in Butare, largely supported by French technical
assistance, operates a four-year post secondary course. It trains 20-25
agricultural technicians (A2) and 10-15 assistant level zootechnicians and
veterinarians (A2) each year. The Nyagahanga school in Byumba prefecture
trains female agricultural technicians; the first class of about 30 students
will graduate in 1980. The agriculture school at Kibuye gives a two year
course and trains about 20-25 lower level (A3) agricultural technicians each
year; a comparable program to train lower level assistant zootechnicians and
veterinarians is being undertaken by the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project.
Overseas training of agricultural engineers is becoming less significant for
lack of scholarship funds; it is still the only source of veterinarians.



- 8-
Trained agricultural staff is still very limited in numbers, but each year new
graduates from Butare University become available. The Government is actively
reviewing the agricultural staff at the prefecture level with a view to
improving their effectiveness. Forestry training is described in para 2.09.
Agricultural Credit
1.22      Credit to farmers is not well developed at present.  Intensification
programs, however, will require some credit to farmers for inputs and espe-
cially for cattle purchase. At present some credit to farmers is channelled
through the People's Banks (Banques Populaires) which receive deposits and
make loans to cooperatives and individuals for working capital.  Experimental
credit programs are being developed under the IDA-financed Bugesera/Gisaka/
Migongo and Mutara projects.
Local Administration
1.23      Rwanda is divided into ten prefectures, each of which is headed
by a prefect appointed by the Minister of the Interior. Prefectures are
divided into communes, headed by a "bourgmestre", and each commune is divided
into "collines" or hills, which usually include about 50 farm families. Each
commune has a council of elected representatives who advise the "bourgmestre".
There is also a development council and a technical committee which propose
and execute projects. All communes set aside 10% of their tax revenues for a
communal action fund, which is used to finance projects. Each prefecture and
commune in tieory has an agronomist and a veterinary technician, although
many of these posts a-e vacant. Each Rwandese citizen is required to work
half a day a week on a community project; this movement, called umuganda, has
sometimes been surprisingly effective and numerous feeder roads, bridges,
schools, etc. have been built, and trees planted with umuganda labor.
II. THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
General
2.01      The forest resources of Rwanda, once much more extensive, now
cover less than 6% of the total area and are being destroyed at a very rapid
rate. Very few trees have been planted to replace those which have been cut
down and sporadic Government tree-planting programs have had only minimal
success. Land is so scarce that farmers plant most of the land they have in
crops which produce an immediate return. The result has been the decline of
wood available for fuelwood and charcoal. Another result is the increased
use of agricultural residues for fuel; maize and sorghum stalks, bean and pea
hulls, and dried dung are burned instead of being used to improve soil struc-
ture and fertility, thereby reducing crop yields. The urban populations which
rely on charcoal for their fuel needs are severely affected; in Kigali, the
family of a junior civil servant, for example, may spend over one quarter of
its cash income on charcoal alone. Cooking is done less often, sometimes as



- 9 -
little as once every two or three days. The Government is becoming increasing
aware of the situation but still has to formulate an effective forestry
policy. Unless action is promptly taken, the scarcity of fuel resources will
become more and more critical, and it will be the poor who will suffer the
most. The rural poor will be affected by falling agricultural production and
consequent lower incomes, while the urban poor will spend an ever-increasing
portion of their income on meeting their basic fuel needs.
Forestry Resources
2.02      Rwanda's present forest resources are estimated to be approximately
170,000 ha, or roughly 6% of the total area. Under the Belgian administra-
tion, most of what remained of a dense montane forest on the Zaire-Nile
watershed line in the western part of the country had been set aside as
natural forest reserves. As reserves, these forests were placed by law under
the jurisdiction of the Government, their access was prohibited to the local
population, and none of their trees were to be cut down. With population
pressure and the lack of adequate protection capacity, enforcement of the law
has become negligible over the years. The Nyungwe reserve now covers only
about 90,000 ha, and in the Gishwati reserve, out of 28,000 ha, only about
5,000-6,000 ha of primary forest are left. In addition, there are in Rwanda
approximately 6,000 ha of Government plantations, 20,000 ha of communal wood-
lots, 2,000 ha of roadside trees and up to 20,000 ha of individual woodlots.
Eucalyptus species make up most of these plantations, with E. grandis/saligna,
E. maidenii and E. tereticornis/camaldulensis as the predominant species.
Some Grevillea robusta, Cupressus lusitanica and Pinus patula have also been
planted, as well as other species. Between 1966 and 1974, land under cultiva-
tion increased from 600,000 ha to nearly 800,000 ha, and some of this lincrease
was at the expense of the natural forests of Rwanda.
Wood Consumption and Production
2.03      Wood is used in Rwanda as the principal source of energy for cooking
and heating, for construction and building, and as the energy source for rural
industries. The main fuel uses of wood are for (1) cooking and heating
in rural homes and large institutions such as hospitals; (2) the production of
charcoal for urban consumers; (3) the drying of tea, tobacco, and pyrethrum;
and (4) the making of bricks, tiles, pottery, and forged metal. Much of the
shortage of fuelwood is being made up by the burning of agricultural residues,
dried manure, grasses, and leaves. One survey carried out in 1977 showed that
in the most densely populated rural areas, wood accounted for only 30% of what
is burned; agricultural residues made up the remaining 70%. The result is much
lower agricultural yields. Studies have shown, for example, that coffee and other
crop yields fall by 50% or more when mulch or organic fertilizer is not used.
Government statistics indicate that in 197j, some 21,000 m of wood were cut
from state-owned §lantations, and 71,000 m from communal woodlots, making a
total of 92,000 m . Yet these figures would account for less than 10% of
estimated consumption and are merely an indication of the extent of illegal
cutting of the forest. The same statistics indicate that a total of 3,000 ha



- 10 -
of forest were planted, but other sources indicate that the area planted
annually over the last few years rarely exceeded 1,000-2,000 ha. This gives
an idea of the imbalance between cutting of the forest and its replacement.
Imports of Wood. Building Materials. and Fuel
2.04      Government statistics indicate that wood imports are relatively
limited and account for 1% by value of all imports. For example, in 1977,
statistics indicate that 2,000 tons of wood was imported, including about
900 tons of logs and boards, 500 tons of plywood, and 400 tons of boxes and
packing crates, for a total value of about FRW 94 million (just over US$1
million). In addition pulp and paper imports represented about 2% of the
value of imports. Several Kigali furniture manufacturers import good quality
wood from Zaire and Uganda. Metal is also imported to substitute for wood in
the furniture and construction industries, but the amount of imported metal
used in place of wood cannot be determined from available statistics.
Petroleum-based domestic fuels (kerosene and gas) are little used because of
their high cost, distribution problems, and the high initial investment
required for stoves, lamps and other equipment. Kerosene is used almost
exclusively for lighting, and costs RF 36 per liter; in 1977, 3,000 tons
were imported for a total value of RF 81 million (US$0.9 million). Butane
gas and electricity are used only by the privileged few in Kigali and a few
other towns. Rwanda has extensive reserves of peat which, although not yet
exploited on a commercial scale, are perhaps the most promising alternative
source of low-cost energy (para. 2.12).
Charcoal
2.05      Charcoal is produced mainly in the Bugesera region southeast of
Kigali, and is marketed in Kigali and Butare. In recent years wood has become
increasingly scarce and the charcoal production center has gradually shifted
farther from Kigali. Only a few years ago, most charcoal was produced 40-45
km from Kigali, but the distance is now 80 km or more, considerably increasing
the cost of transporting the charcoal to the Kigali market. Small amounts of
charcoal are also produced and sold in the area of Gisenyi and Kibuye prefec-
tures. The traditional pit or stack methods are used to produce charcoal.
With both methods the yields of charcoal are quite low, from 10 to 15% or
less, and the process takes 6 to 8 days. Recent studies estimate that half a
hectare of the dwindling Bugesera "forest" is cut for every small truck
load of 35-40 bags of charcoal of 30-35 kg each; to meet the charcoal needs
of Kigali alone, 780 ha of Bugesera's woodlands are cut down each year.
Communes (para 1.23) in which charcoal is produced levy a tax on trucks
carrying charcoal according to the size of the truck; for example, a small
pickup which carries up to 42 sacks is charged RF 100 per load. The tax is
paid at the border of the commune by the transporter. Charcoal prices vary
seasonally according to the availability of transport, and are highest during
the rainy season when some roads are impassable, and during the coffee harvest
when trucks are primarily engaged in transporting coffee. Charcoal is
sold in bags of 30-35 kg, and prices were RF 400-500 in Kigali and RF 500
or more in Butare in mid-1979. Small piles of about 1/2 kg are also sold for



- il -
RF 20 each; at least two piles are needed for one cooking session. When a
bridge was closed for repairs on the road from the Bugesera region to Kigali,
prices more than doubled to as much as RF 1000 per sack.
Sawmills
2.06      Rwanda currently has only one small sawmill in operation, run by
the Swiss-financed forestry project (para 2.15) at Gisovu. The Swiss recently
ceased operation of a second sawmill due to rising operating costs. Another
sawmill previously operated in the Butare region also closed down due to the
shortage of wood and the obsolescence of its equipment. Almost all sawing
is now done by skilled pit-sawyers, who travel to wherever their skills are
needed. A two-men team can saw approximately six boards a day, and receives
RF 110 per board.
Pricing Policy
2.07      The prices for wood cut from state-owned plantations (boisements
domaniaux) are set annually by the Ministry of Agriculture on the recommen-
dation of the Department of Waters and Forests. Market forces and replacement
costs do not appear to be an important element in establishing price levels.
Cutting permits are issued by the prefecture agronomist and presented by the
purchaser on demand to the forestry officer for the particular locality. The
1979 prices of construction wood were set at RF 60 for poles of less than 10
cm in diameter, RF 150 for poles of 10-20 cm, and RF 500 for all wood of more
than 20 cm in diameter, regardless of size. The price of RF 500 represents an
ad hoc solution since the Department of Waters and Foresits lacks the manpower
and the means to measure each tree for which a permit is requested. There
appears to be no established, regular market for construction poles, and they
are cut and transported on a contrîct basis. Firewood cutting/gathering
permits cost RF 160 per stere (1 m of stacked wood, not solid); the wood
is sold by merchants at RF 400 per stere, including cutting and transport
costs.  It became clear in discussions with forest officials that most cutting
of wood, especially poles, is done illegally and only in rare instances are
permits obtained. Communal woodlots (boisements communaux) are for the use of
the commune residents, and may be cut by order of the bourgmestre of the
commune. One-quarter of the woodlot is theoretically set aside for the
exclusive use of the very poorest families of the commune.
Forestry Services
2.08         The Department of Waters and Forests (Direction des Eaux et
Forets) is under the General Directorate of Agronomy of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (para. 1.18). The post of Department director
has been vacant for several months. A forestry engineer is to be appointed
director shortly. Until July 1979 no trained foresters were assigned to
the Department. At present, the staff consists of the acting Director,
an agricultural technician (A2) who is also chief of the Afforestation Office,
an agricultural assistant who does field work, a topographer,



- 12 -
and two recently graduated forestry engineers. The Department's offices are
located in three small rooms of an old building in the commercial district of
Kigali, separate from the rest of the Ministry of Agriculture.  The forestry
field staff includes 53 forest guards (gardes forestiers) and 46 forest
extension workerQ (moniteurs forestiers). The guards are responsible for
protecting the remaining natural forests (mainly Nyungwe and Gishwati) by
preventing livestock from entering the forest, discouraging illegal cutting
of the forest, and reporting forest fires. The guards are under the super-
vision of the commune and prefecture agronomists, but have limited means and
support to accomplish their tasks. The forest extension workers protect and
supervise state forest plantations and woodlots; they check cutting permits,
supervise nursery workers, and oversee the woodlots. They are responsible to
the commune agronomists who have very limited forestry experience and can
thus give little guidance. Forestry extension workers in general have only a
primary education and some on-the-job forestry training.
Training
2.09      Rwanda has benefited from a generous Swiss program of forestry
scholarships, which should give the country enough technicians to meet its
needs for the next 3-5 years. The first graduates are now back in Rwanda
engaged in various aspects of forestry. Nine have graduated as forest
engineers, three of whom are now in a training program at the Swiss Forestry
Project in Kibuye. Another three are still studying at Morogoro University
in Tanzania, and recr itment is under way for another three or four scholar-
ships which are to be granted. At the forest technician level, one has now
graduated, 16 are still studying in Kenya and Tanzania, and three are in
training at the Swiss Forestry Project in Kibuye. Four more scholarships at
the technician level are being offered and recruitment is now beginning.
Forestry Group of Rwanda (Groupe Forestier du Rwanda)
2.10      Created in 1976, the "Groupe Forestier du Rwanda" is a loose asso-
ciation of research institutions, government departments, local and prefec-
tural authorities, and organizations involved in forestry in Rwanda. It
fulfills many of the functions that a stronger Department of Waters and
Forests would be expected to assume. The "Groupe" is nominally chaired by
the Director of Waters and Forests, but the main driving force behind it is
the Swiss-sponsored Projet de Developpement Forestier (PRODEFOR), formerly
the Projet Pilote Forestier-PPF (para 2.15). The "Groupe" meets twice a year
in different parts of Rwanda to discuss forestry problems, such as the protec-
tion of the remaining natural forest, forest fires, termite control, charcoal
production methods and their effects on the environment, and so on. The
"Groupe" formulates recommendations which are submitted to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, but apparently these have received little response.
Nevertheless, the Groupe Forestier du Rwanda performs a valuable service
in promoting coordination of forestry projects and an exchange of ideas.



- 13 -
Future Energy Needs and Resources
2.11      It is difficult to make precise estimates of future wood needs
because of the many uncertainties about future population size, wood imports,
possible alternative energy sources, and above all likely wood availability.
The population of Rwanda will be approximately 7.5 million in the year 2090,
and theoretical demand for wood can be roughly estimated at 7.5 million m
per year which is equivalent to the production of 750,000 ha of plantations.
Existing plantations and other forest resources would not even suffice to meet
25% of this demand. The unavoidable conclusion is that, even taking the most
optimistic estimates of future wood availability, alternative sources of
energy, as yet unidentified will simply have to be found. The only known,
realistic substitute for wood energy is peat, since solar technology and
methane gas recovery methods are not yet well developed, and petroleum products
are too expensive for all but a very few Rwandese. The demand for wood will
therefore far exceed the supply, especially in view of Rwanda's rapidly
increasing population.
Alternative Energy Sources
2.12      One promising source of energy for Rwanda is its extensive peat
bogs, located in valley bottoms throughout the country. According to a
consultant's study carried out in November 1978 under UNDP auspices, Rwanda
has enough peat to meet its energy needs for 200 years. The study concludes
that peat clods extracted and mixed by hand would produce energy at a cost
similar to that of wood and charcoal; peat bricks and clods mixed by machine
would be more expensive. The production of some bogs could reach 10,000 tons
in as little as two years. At present, however, peat is used only for the
drying of pyrethrum at Ruhengeri; it is extracted and processed in situ but
none of the production is sold. Studies are under way to examine the feasi-
bility of using peat in a foundry currently under construction near Kigali.
However, the large amount of smoke produced by peat and the need for good
ventilation to sustain the burning might hamper the acceptance of peat as a
domestic fuel. In addition, it would require sociological changes because
(i) it would most likely have to be purchased from a large-scale producer and
processor rather than gathered as in the case of firewood, and (ii) it would
require the use of a specially designed stove instead of the traditional
fireplace made of three stones. Other possible drawbacks to the large-scale
use of peat are the possible damage its extraction might cause to the hydrology
of a region and the fact that some of the potential extraction sites are
currently under cultivation. It is more likely to be used industrially and by
institutions such as bakeries, schools, prisons, and the military, than for
domestic needs.
2.13      Another possible source of future energy for Rwanda is the methane
gas in Lake Kivu. A pilot station near Gisenyi used to produce gas for the
brewery, and a UNDP grant will finance needed repairs to the station. Some
estimates indicate that as much as 80% of the brewery's energy needs could
be met by methane gas. There are many technical obstacles to be overcome,



- 14 -
however, if methane gas is to be produced economically on a scale larger than
the existing pilot project. Rwanda, Burundi, and Zaire recently agreed to
investigate the possibility of manufacturing fertilizer from the methane gas
from Lake Kivu.
Future Programs and Policies
2.14         The major constraint to forestry development in Rwanda to
date has been the lack of a rational forestry policy. In spite of the
fact that agriculture provides about 50% of the GDP, in 1976 it received only
5.6% of the budgetary allocations, and forestry has long been the poor rela-
tion of the agricultural sector. Even the modest planting program of 300 ha
per year proposed by the Department of Water and Forests was not funded.
Rwanda is fortunate in that it now has a nucleus of trained forestry grad-
uates who are currently gaining experience.   They will be responsible for
the formulation of a forestry policy which will have to deal with two major
problems. The first is the major constraint faced by agriculture in general
in Rwanda, the critical shortage of land. Small, scattered, uncultivated
hilltops remain, but large areas suitable for forest plantations are virtually
non-existent. Reforestation programs will have to confine themselves to areas
which are unsuitable for either cultivation or livestock production, and to
look for possibilities to integrate tree planting into the farming systems
and to plant trees along roadsides; the current Government policy of encour-
aging each family to plant 5 ares of trees per family member as grouped
woodlots can no longer be implemented in the most densely populated areas.
The second problem facing forestry policy is the traditional attitude toward
wood and forests which assigns a low value to wood. As wood becomes scarce
and meeting a family's fuel needs demands an increasing proportion of both
time and income, this attitude is likely to change and people should gradually
become aware of the real value of wood. The forestry policy must reinforce
this change in attitude by setting and enforcing realistic prices, encour-
aging conservation of the remaining forest, and helping farmers to develop
rural woodlots. This will not be an easy task as small plantations are
scattered throughout the country, making effective control of forests and
woodlots very difficult. The forestry policy will necessarily include
protection of the remaining natural forest, control of plantations, planting
programs to meet, at least partially, the wood needs of both the urban and
the rural populations, rational pricing policies, provision of enforcement
means, and a continued training effort. The proposed Project would assist the
Government in formulating such a policy and would provide the material and
institutional framework with which to implement it.
Other Forestry Projects
2.15      In 1967 the Swiss Government initiated a pilot forestry project,
the Projet Pilote Forestier (PPF), which initially concentrated on protecting
and utilizing the Nyungwe reserve (para 2.02). Two centers were established
to promote both the conservation and rational exploitation of the forest,
including a sawmill operation and charcoal production center. Other PPF



- 15 -
activities included the publication of a guide to the main species of the
montane forests of Rwanda, a forestry map, and various didactic materials on
the importance of forestry to rural development. The Project's accent shifted
in 1975 to rural afforestation, especially in Kibuye prefecture, and training
(para. 2.09). The PPF began to work more closely on research and documenta-
tion with the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda (ISAR) at Rubona
in 1977 (para. 1.20), and at about the same time the Swiss helped to form the
Groupe Forestier du Rwanda (para. 2.10). The PPF has also attempted to set
up a seed distribution network, the Forest Seed Center of Rwanda, and one of
the main thrusts of the program has been to improve the quality of locally
produced seeds, especially in view of the difficulties involved in importing
seeds. The PPF is now changing its emphasis to become a Forestry Development
Project (PRODEFOR) which will include support to the Department of Waters and
Forests. PRODEFOR will continue the programs of training, afforestation,
Nyungwe forest conservation, and forestry education and extension. A technical
assistant will be assigned to the Department of Waters and Forests as soon as
one can be recruited. The Swiss contribution to forestry in Rwanda has been
invaluable; in particular, the scholarship program has been responsible for
the creation of a nucleus of trained forestry personnel which is a crucial
factor in the development of the forestry sector in Rwanda.
2.16      Other agricultural projects have reforestation components of varying
sizes, often as an anti-erosion measure. The IDA-supported Bugesera/Gisaka/
Migongo and Mutara projects include the reforestation of several hundred
hectares; the agricultural intensification projects sponsored by the German
government in Ramba and Gaseke communes, 100 ha per year, and the Banque
Africaine de Developpement project in Karago and Giciye communes, 2,000 ha
over 5 years. The Belgian Government is planning a project which would
afforest 1,000 ha on the borders of the Nyungwe reserve, but this project has
not yet been fully appraised or financed. Much remains to be done in terms
of standardizing forestry techniques. For example, under the proposed IDA
project only selected imported seeds would be used to improve the overall
quality of the trees, instead of using seeds gathered locally from the most
accessible, and therefore smaller and less vigorous, trees. The seeds would
be sown in plastic tubes rather than in bags, to eliminate the need for
removing the bag at planting time. Yet the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo project
and the German-sponsored project in Karago and Giciye communes use locally
gathered seeds sown in plastic bags. This problem is by no means unique to
forestry projects. A stronger Department of Waters and Forests should be
able to standardize and update methods and avoid unproductive experimentation
and duplication of efforts.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives and StrateRy
3.01      The principal objectives of the Project would be to develop an
institutional capacity for policy formulation and implementation in the
forestry sector of Rwanda, and to initiate a reforestation program to provide



- 16 -
fuelwood, poles and saw timber for the country. A related objective of the
Project would be to sustain the existing livestock industry in the Gishwati
area, and to develop it into a high productivity dual purpose (meat and milk)
cattle industry (para. 3.07). The Project strategy is based on several
complex, interrel'ted problems facing Rwanda. Forests are fast disappearing
because of population increase and pressure on land for crop cultivation. If
no remedial action is taken promptly to redevelop tree planting, the forests
will completely disappear, and with them the supply of fuelwood, construction
poles and timber; Rwanda will be forced to find alternative sources of energy
or rely on imports. While fuelwood and pole plantations can be developed on
lands too poor or degraded to be used for crop cultivation or grazing, saw
timber plantations require better soils. For saw timber, Gishwati is the only
suitable area for large scale plantations that has been identified. Today,
little of the original Gishwati forest remains; the reserve is mostly bush and
grass, providing wood and grazing to the surrounding population; however, it
is also an area which requires a careful approach because of the fragile
ecology of the region. If forestry were redeveloped in Gishwati in isolation,
the cattle industry would of necessity disappear completely. If development
is not planned and controlled, farmers could encroach in the area with serious
risk of damaging soil cover and the hydrological resources. Therefore, taking
inta account the economic, social, and environmental needs of the Gishwati
area as a whole, it would be desirable to develop forestry together with
livestock, with intensified forage production both in existing forest pastures
and in the surrounding areas.
3.02      The! Project nas therefore been designed as the first phase of a
long-term program whi(h would redevelop the forestry resources of Rwanda to
provide for part of the long-term needs for fuelwood, poles and saw timber.
For fuelwood and poles, priority is given to meeting the needs of the urban
population of Kigali and Butare while experimenting with reforestation
systems for the rural areas. For saw timber, an integrated land use approach
in the area of the Gishwati Forest is proposed in order to preserve the
natural forest and watersheds, and redevelop forests, while maintaining and
intensifying the existinglivestock industry in the area.  Increased forage
production and therefore intensification of the farming system would be
promoted in the farming zone outside the forest, while simultaneously devel-
oping high-productivity pattures within the forest boundaries. The Project
proposals should provide naterial assistance to the Government in developing
appropriate policies and Jnstitutions for future fotestry development.
B. General Description
3.03      The Project would include the following components:
(i)  the strengthening of forestry services within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock, including: (a) the restructuring
of the Waters and Forests Department; (b) the construction
of appropriate offices; and (c) the provision of staff and
logistical support;



- 17 -
(ii) the development in Kigali and Butare Prefectures of:
(a) 5,000 ha and 3,000 ha respectively, as fuelwood and pole
short-rotation plantations to supply charcoal, firewood and
building poles for the urban population of Kigali and Butare;
and (b) rural woodlots to supply firewood and building poles
for the rural population;
(iii)  the development in Gisenyi Prefecture of:  (a) 4,000 ha as
part of a long-term integrated forestry and livestock
development program within the Gishwati Forest, including
2,000 ha of softwood plantations for the production of saw
timber and 2,000 ha of pastures for cattle production, of which
200 ha would be developed as a technical support center;
and (b) integrated crop and livestock services in the farming
zones of the seven communes surrounding the Gishwati Forest;
(iv) technical assistance for Project management and on-the-job
training for Rwandese staff;
(v)  studies and field trials, specifically a study of Rwanda's
energy use and needs, trials of more efficient charcoal
production techniques, development of new cooking methods
for the rural population, and pasture and cattle breeding
trials; and
(vi) Project monitoring and evaluation, further project preparation,
and some scholarships in forestry, livestock, and financial
disciplines.
3.04         The Project would be implemented over a period of about six
years, including the Project preparatory phase (para. 4.10). A Project
Management Committee within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would
have overall reponsibility for supervision of Project implementation, and
would delegate overall Project implementation responsibility to a Project
coordinator. The Project would be organized into two subprojects: a fuelwood
and pole subproject in Kigali and Butare Prefectures, and an integrated
forestry and livestock subproject in the area of Gishwati Forest Reserve,
in Gisenyi Prefecture. Each Subproject director would be respectively
responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Subprojects. The Waters
and Forests Department would be responsible for the studies and applied
research on forestry related subjects, and the Studies Bureau of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock for Project monitoring and further project
preparation studies. Training activities would be the direct responsibility
of the Management Committee.
C. The Proiect Areas (Map 14528)
KiRali/Butare Fuelwood and Pole Sub-Project
3.05      Project investments would be carried out in two Prefectures:
Kigali and Butare. In Kigali Prefecture, the Government has selected about 20
bare hills in seven communes, ranging in area from 100 to 400 hectares, and
totalling about 5,000 ha net, within 50 km to the north and east of the city



- 18 -
of Kigali. If, however, there is a shortfall, some additional land would be
available in the south of Byumba Prefecture, just north of the communes of
Gikomero and Gikoro. All the fuelwood and pole plantations to supply Kigali
would be located on the tops and slopes of these hills which are denuded,
very sparsely populated, and do not lend themselves to agricultti;al produc-
tion. In Butare Prefecture, the Government has selected two mountain ranges
less than 25 km to the west of the town of Butare: a series of bare hills in
Runyinya commune, and a long bare mountain range on the boundary of the
communes of Runyinya and Maraba, covering a total net area of about 3,000 ha.
In addition, the communes of Kigali and Butare Prefectures would also develop
rural woodlots for fuelwood and poles, with assistance from the central
plantation nurseries.
3.06      Physical Characteristics.  Th& general topography of Kigali and
Butare prefectures is hilly. As for mcst of the country, the underlying
geological system of the sub-project area is the Burundian system which
consist mostly of quartz and schists, with a belt of the highly metamorphic un-
derlying Rusizian series, east and south-east of Kigali. These are few precise
data on the soils, but some information will be collected during the detailed
topographical surveys which will be carried out as part of the prepara-
tory activities (para. 4.10). Soil fertility appears to be rather low and_
many of the hilltops are rocky and lateritic. The vegetation is mostly
grass. The altitude ranges from 1,500 m to 1,800 m, and reaches 2,000 m
in the north-west of the area. The annual rainfall ranges from 900 mm to
1,100 mm, wïth the main precipitation occurring from September/October to
May, with a peak in April, and the dry season from June through August.
The average temperature is around 200C throughout the year with occasional
minima of 10 C - 150C and maxima of 25 0C - 300C.  Hail is said to occur but
is not thought to be a problem. Most of the hills selected for planting
are denuded, with little or no cultivation. In the final determination of
precise plantation boundaries, every effort should be made to ensure that
cultivated land and land suitable for crops is not utilized, although it is
probable that small planted areas or banana groves will have to be displaced,
as tarmers tend increasingly to take any unused land for crops,
authorized or not, and whether or not it is suitable for cultivation. Where
cultivated land is acquired, appropriate compensation would be paid (paras.
1.08, 3.11). Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Further, the probleii of land tenure would,be carefully monitored throughout
Project implementatton (para 4.11) and re-iiewed by IDA in the context of the
annual work plan re'views (para 4.09).
Gishwati Integrated Forestry and Livestock Sub-Project
3.07      The Project area would be located in Gisenyi Prefecture in seven
communes which include parts of the Gishwati Forest; total area is about
110,000 ha. The forest reserve itself covers about 25-28,000 ha. An inte-
grated crop and livestock development program would be implemented in the
three communes of Mutura, Kanama, and Kayove to the west and south of the
Gishwati forest reserve and livestock services would be strengthened in
the four communes of Karago, Giciye, Ramba and Gaseke, east of the reserve
(see Map 14627R). Extension services for crops are already being strengthened
in the communes of Karago-Giciye under a German-financed project. A similar



- 19 -
project is about to start in the communes of Ramba-Gaseke under an ADB-
financed project. Both projects aim at promoting intensification in
farming methods in line with the Government's policy (para 1.13).
3.08      Topography, soils and climate.  The Gishwati Sub-Project area is
located on the Zaire-Nile divide. The main geological formation is the very
ancient and highly metamorphic Rusizian series, which consists of schists
with granitic intrusions. The altitude falls mostly within the 2,200-2,800 m
range, with the highest point reaching 3,000 m. The area is mostly hilly
with a high proportion of steep slopes, separated by deep but wide valleys.
The soils appear to be fertile and formed under forest conditions at the
higher elevations, with a thick layer of humus, and under volcanic conditions
of the lower elevations.  Most of the area is cultivated, except for the
Gishwati Forest Reserve.  The latter has already been largely exploited:
only 5-6,000 ha of virgin natural forest are left, the remainder consisting
of widely scattered small trees, shrubs, tall grasses, herbs, and bamboos
(Arundinaria).  Where the land has been cleared and cultivated, natural
KiFùyu grass takes over.  The area is well watered.  The annual rainfall
averages 1,400 mm, but mist also occurs over long periods. The rainy season
extends from September to May, with peaks in October and March/April. Tem-
peratures vary between 11 0C and 17 0C, with mean monthly minima of 10 0C and
maxima of 25°C.
3.09      Farming systems.  The present farming system in the Sub-Project
area utilizes the resources of the lowlands and highlands in the farming zone
outside the forest, and the resources of the forest.  Farmers have developed
a complex crop and livestock husbandry system in which altitude is a deter-
mining factor. Peas, sorghum, and maize are mostly grown in the lowlands,
while peas and potatoes are predominant on the highlands.  Peas, potatoes
and beans are cultivated as a pure stand while maize and sorghum are often
cultivated in association with groundnuts or gourds. Each crop is usually
cultivated only once a year on the same plot; potatoes alone enter twice in
the crop rotation system, but on different plots. Thus there are no perma-
nent fallows.  Terracing is commonly practiced, and the planting of anti-
erosion fodder strips, discontinued for many years following Independence, has
been resumed by farmers in recent years. Small quantities of improved seeds
are available-from ihe local branch of the Selected Seeds Service (para 1.18).
Family farm units average about 1.50 ha. Large tea plantations have recently
been developed, thereby putting added pressure on land for food crop cultiva-
tion. Livestock is raised on post-harvest crop residues and fallows, and in
forest pastures when the former are exhausted. About 26,000 head of cattle
are reportedly grazing permanently in the area, as well as 7,000 goats and
sheep.  The traditional system whereby a farmer raised the cattle of a tradi-
tional chief is still commonly practiced; in addition, since the post-harvest
fallows are opened to everyone, cattle is also brought to the area from other
coimunues or prefectures.
3.10      Although the Project areas have been clearly defined, detailed
topographical surveys and mapping were not available at the time of
appraisal. They are being undertaken with financing from the Project



- 20 -
Preparation Facility (para 3.34), and work has already begun. It would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness that the Government of Rwanda had
taken measures satisfactory to the Association to designate the hills select-
ed for afforestation in Kigali and Butare as national plantations (boisements
domaniaux), and define the development objectives for the Gishwati Forest.
Adequate procedures for the development and management of the national
plantations would be established, including the authority of the Waters
and Forests Department, with the support of local authorities, to enforce
forestry legislation, and the prohibition of goat grazing in plantations.
These matters were fully discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
3.11         The overall objectives of the program, the potential benefits
for the population, and the compensation measures in case some farmers
must be displaced, would be clearly stated in the Govenment's legal docu-
ments on land utilization for the purpose of the Project.
D. Detailed Features
Administrative Support for the Forestry Services and for Project Management
3.12         Under the Project, the forestry services of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock would be strengthened. The Waters and Forests
Department (paras. 1.18, 2.08) would be restructured, possibly into a Directorate
(Direction Generale) and the Forestry Division into a Department (Direction).
It was agreed at negitiations that this restructuring would be effected
not later than December 31, 1985. The Swiss Government has agreed to assist
the Forestry Division/Department by providing an experienced forester under
the ongoing Forestry Project (PRODEFOR) (para. 2.15). The main responsibili-
ties of the Forestry Department would be to develop a forestry policy and
legislation, to execute national forestry programs not covered by the Project
(e.g. the national day of the tree) and to assist other projects, prefec-
tures, communes or institutions with the implementation of afforestation
schemes. It would, in addition, develop standards for nursery and planta-
tion techniques, and supervise their application. The managerial and techni-
cal capacity of the Waters and Forests Department would also be strengthened
through the implementation of the Project. At the end of the Project period,
the Project coordinator would be fully reintegrated into the forestry service,
and the staff of the fuelwood and pole subproject would take over the respon-
sibilities of the afforestation office. Having acquired experience in
planning and implementing afforestation programs, the staff would be in
a position to develop and operate similar afforestation activities in other
parts of the country. Appropriate buildings for the Forestry Department,
including offices, a library/conference room, and a storage room would
be constructed and equipped, and would house the Project coordinator, the
Project administrative and financial section and the fuelwood and pole
subproject, during the Project implementation period. Office buildings



- 21 -
and staff housing would also be built near Butare. Separate subprojects
headquaters would be built in Gishwati (para. 3.16). Provisions have been
made in the Project for the recruitment and training of surveyors to be
permanently attached to the Forestry Department, and for the purchase of
vehicles and equipment. The main investment items would include buildings,
furniture, equipment and vehicles, and operating costs for the Waters and
Forests Department during the Project implementation period, including
the Project coordinator and the Project administrative and financial section,
and for the fuelwood and pole subproject.
KiRali/Butare Fuelwood and Pole Sub-proiect
3.13      Kigali Plantations.  Under the Project, fuelw.ood and poae 'short-
rotation plantations totalling about 5,000 ha net would be established mainly
for charcoal and pole production for the urban population of Kigali. During
the first year of Project implementation, 300 ha would be planted; the planted
area would increase to a total of 1,500 ha in the fourth and fifth Project
year. The principal species planted would be Eucalyptus grandis/saligna,
although some E. tereticornis/camaldulensis might be planted at lower eleva-
tions and where the rainfall is below 1,000 mm. Full attention would be paid
to soil and climatic conditions. Other species such as Black Wattle would
also be tried. Selected seeds would be imported from neighboring coun-
tries, preferably from Kenya or Tanzania, through the Forest Seed Center of
Rwanda (see para. 2.15), as seed available in Rwanda may be of poor quality.
The technical aspects of the plantation program are described in Chapter V.
The principal features would be manual ground preparation (pitting), seedling
production in one or more nurseries, protection against termites in the
nursery, manual planting, experimental fertilizing, and weeding. Eucalyptus
plantations would be coppiced at eight yearly intervals, with one seedling
and three coppice crops.  The principal investment items would be direct
afforestation costs for nurseries and planting (materials, equipment, and
labor), development infrastructures (access tracts, buildings), and plantation
operation and maintenance during the Project period.
3.14      Butare Plantations.  Under the Project, short-ratation fuelwood
and pole plantations totalling about 3,000 ha net would be established mainly
for fuelwood and poles for the urban population of Butare. The planting
program would start with 200 ha in the first Project year and would reach 900
ha a year in the fourth and fifth year. The main species planted would be
Eucalyptus grandis/saligna. A small office and staff housing would be built
near Butare. The technical package and investments would be similar to those
envisaged for the Kigali plantations (para. 3.13).
3.15      Pilot Rural Woodlots.  In order to encourage the communes, the rural
population and various institutions such as missions and schools to partici-
pate in the country's reforestation objectives, the central nurseries in
Kigali and Butare would produce for sale about 10% more eucalyptus seedlings
than needed for the state plantations. The nurseries would also produce for
sale limited quantities of fruit tree and fodder tree seedlings. This program
would both encourage tree planting and make possible a more realistic assess-
ment of the interest of the rural population in growing trees and woodlots to



- 22 -
supply kheir domestic needs. This modest introduction is necessary because
similar programs have been limited in the past and because of the many
constr4ints on rural afforestation, notably acute land shortage  and the
higher'immediate returns from foodcrops (para. 2.14). If the response is
positiie, a more widespread rural nursery program could be deve3o-,ed in
future agricultural and foresty projects; if the program proved strikingly
succeshful in a shorter period than anticipated, it could be accelerated
ur.der the Project.  During the Project period, the nurseries would mainly
serve communes in Kigali and Butare prefectures. According to the Govern-
ment's current policy (para. 2.14), rural woodlots would be grouped as far as
possible, although they would be individually owned. Fruit and fodder trees
would be planted either around the rugo (home) or as anti-erosion hedges. The
nursery staff and the staff of the Waters and Forests Department would provide
technical advice and supervision to the communes, individual farmers, and
institutions growing woodlots. In the first Project year, 100,000 seedlings
would be produced, representing 50 ha of woodlots; production would reach
480,000 seedlings in the fourth and fifth year of the Project, representing
240 ha a year. The main investment items would include planting materials
(seeds, tubes, etc.), and the incremental cost of nursery operations.
Gishwati Integrbted Forestry, Crop and Livestock Development Sub-project
3.16      The objectives of the sub-project would be to make optimal use of
the high, but presently underutilized, agricultural potential of the Gishwati
area while carefully protecting the ecological balance to develop forestry
resources, and to maintain and develop livestock activities. A land use plan
for the Gishwati Forest would be prepared and an integrated forestry and
livestock development scheme (para 3.17) initiated over 4,000 ha. In addition,
crop and livestock services would be strengthened in the farming zones of
seven communes surrounding the Gishwati Forest. Subproject headquarters
(office, staff housing, workshop) would be established in the Gishwati area
(para. 4.04). The existing east-west roads would be permanently upgraded and
a connecting north-south access road opened. Additional access roads would be
opened as the afforestation and livestock development progresses. Part of the
headquarters construction and access-road upgrading would be carried out
during the Project Preparatory Phase (para. 4.10). The principal investment
items would be technical assistance (para. 3.28), buildings, access road
upgrading, equipment and vehicles, and operating costs of the subproject
headquarters during the Project implementation period.
(a) Land Use Plan
3.17      Under the Project, a long-term land use plan for the Gishwati
Forest reserve would be established. The following long-term objectives have
been defined: to provide effective protection for the estimated 5,000 ha of
still untouched natural forest; to develop about 10,000 ha of softwood planta-
tions for the production of saw timber over a 25-year period; to develop a
minimum of 5,000 ha of pasture land for cattle husbandry; and to retain
approximately the remaining 5,000 ha as a military zone in the North. The



- 23 -
Government has indicated that this latter area could also be used for forestry
and livestock development, provided that the land preparation and tree plant-
ing be undertaken by the army under technical supervision from the forestry
service, and that silvicultural operations be carried out in coordination
with the military authorities. The pastures established would also serve as
firebreaks for the forest blocks. The exact area and location of afforesta-
tion blocks and pastures would be determined by several factors, namely the
minimum economic size (50 ha) for the planting and exploitation of forest
blocks, and the degree of slope, reserving slopes below 200 for pastures, and
slopes over 200 and hill and mountain tops for afforestation. For implemen-
tation and management purposes, the Gishwati Forest would be divided into
four sectors of about 4,000 ha each. The exact boundaries would be determined
during the preparation of the development plan: the northern sector, over
part of Mutura, Karago, and Kanama communes; the eastern sector, over part of
Giciye and Gaseke communes; the southern sector over part of Kanama, Gaseke,
and Ramba communes; and the western sector, in part of Kanama commune.
Details are given in IBRD map 14527R. The development plan would also include
the detailed planning of the major road infrastructure, sub-project head-
quarters, and staff housing.
3.18      The preparation of the land use plan would consist of:  (i) detailed
mappin§, including aerial photography of the Gishwati Forest Reserve at the
20,000 scale, a restitution from aerial photos, an orthophoto plan, and
the mapping proper; (ii) a socio-economic survey to identify the existing land
tenure system, land use patterns, and farming systems in the seven communes
participating in the sub-project; (iii) detailed surveying, including the
opening of square lines and the division of the area according to the proposed
land uses; (iv) the collection of data on soils, hydrology, and climate; and
(v) the preparation of a final report. With the exception of (v), these
activities would be undertaken during the -Project Preparatory Phase
(para. 4.10). Short-term technical assistance would be provided to the
Waters and Forests Department to coordinate and supervise these preparatory
activities, namely a land use planner and a construction superintendent
(para. 3.28), surveyors, a soil scientist, a hydrogeologist, and a sociologist.
The final details of the development plan would be prepared by the Gishwati
subproject director (para. 4.02), and would be discussed with IDA as part
of the first annual work plan review (para. 4.09). The main investments
would include mapping expenditures, surveying equipment and tasks, upgrading
and construction of access roads, construction of administrative buildings
and staff housing, supplies and equipment, technical assistance, and operating
coats of the forestry and livestock services directly involved in the preparation
of the Gishwati land use plan.
(b) Forestry Development
3.19     (i)  Softwood Saw-timber Plantations.  Under the Project, 2,000 ha
net of softwood would be planted as the first five-year phase of a 25 year
program of 10,000 ha net on a 25 year rotation. It is expected that ultimately
the 10,000 ha of softwood planted in the Gishwati Forest would supply sawmills
which would be built to process the timber produced (para. 7.02). Since land



- 24 -
must be demarcated, cleared and prepared at least one year before planting,
the actual planting would start with 200 ha in the second Project year to
reach 800 ha in the fifth Project year, making a total of 2,000 ha over five
years. The main species planted would be Pinus patula, although other
species might be tried on a small scale, such as Pinus kesiva, P. elliottil,
and P. oocarpa.  Selected seeds would be imported from Kenya or Tanzania
(para. 3.13). Detailed technical aspects of the plantation program are
described in Chapter V. The main features would be land-clearing and prepa-
ration, and maintenance of newly established plantations, seedling production
in one or several nurseries, pitting, manual planting and weeding, and
minimal fencing of plantation blocks with live hedges to prevent encroach-
ment by cattle. A normal network of forest roads and tracks would be estab-
lished. The main firebreaks would be the buffer zones of pastures; narrower
firebreaks would be established inside each planted block. The main invest-
ment items would be direct land clearing and afforestation costs (labor,
seeds, planting and small equipment), road and track construction and mainte-
nance, firefighting equipment, a tractor and a trailer for the transport of
seedlings and construction materials, administrative costs for plantation
development, and operating costs during the Project period.
3.20      (ii)  Pilot Rural Plantations.  Rural woodlots would be developed
in the farming zones of the Gishwati sub-project area, along the same lines
as the pilot component proposed for Kigali and Butare (para. 3.15). This
program would be an integral part of the agricultural efforts which would be
undertaken in the seven communes concerned with the Gishwati sub-project
(paras 3.21-3.23). Ai present the local population takes some fuelwood and
poles from the degradud part of the Gishwati Forest, as most of the surround-
ing land has been cleared for farming. However, once the forestry and live-
stock developments have been implemented, this source of wood for domestic
needs will disappear. Provisions have therefore to be made from the
start of the Project period to establish an alternative source of wood. The
marq species planted would be Eucalyptus although other species would be
tested. Seedlings would be produced in the nurseries of the extension sectors
(para. 3.21) for sale to interested farmers, and trees would be planted
under the supervision of the forestry service. it is estimated that 30,000 seed-
lings would be produced in the second year, corresponding to 15 ha of woodlots, to
reach 240,000 seedlings in the fifth year corresponding to 120 ha of woodlots.
Therefore, a total of approximately 225 ha would be afforested which would
produce a volume of wood corresponding to approximately the theoretical yield
from that part of the Gishwati Forest Reserve which would be cleared and
developed under the Project. The main investment items would be direct
afforestation costs (seeds, tubes, tools, and chemicals against termites),
and incremental operating costs for the nursery and extension services.
(c) Integrated Crop and Livestock Development
3.21     (i)  Forage Development and Intensification of Farming Systems.
The major short-term objectives would be to intensify farming techniques in
order to increase fodder production, to make greater use of land resources,
and to accommodate the maximum number of livestock on existing farms the year



- 25 -
around without having to rely on seasonal grazing in the Gishwati Forest
The major long-term objectives would be to preserve the production
potential of the area aà- increase cropland livestock productivity. Under the
Project, the extension services for croqs and livestock would be strengthened
and developed in the three communes of Iutura, Kanama, and Kayove; livestock
extension services only would be strengthened in the four communes of Karago,
Giciye, Ramba and Gaseke, since they already benefit from crop intensification
projects (para 3.07). For crop extension, each commune would have one agricul-
tural technician (A2) and one agricultqral extension worker in each communal
sector (A3), the latter being selected possibly among communal counselors along the
lines of the Government's current policy. For animal husbandry, each commune
would have one veterinary technician (A2) and one veterinary assistant (A3)
for two or three communal sectors. The field extension staff would work under
the technical guidance of an agricultural engineer (AO or Ai) for crop and
forage production, and of a veterinarian (AO) for animal husbandry. In
addition to farm visits, the extension staff would establish demonstration
plots, and if necessary, seed multiplication fields and tree nurseries in
coordination with the Selected Seeds Service (para 1.18) and the Forestry
Service (para 3.21). Animal husbandry infrastructures would be developed,
including veterifnary dispensaries, treatment crushes, and a few bulling
centers. Improved seeds and veterinary medicines would be sold to farmers at
cost; veterinary treatments would be provided for a fee, in accordance with
the Government's current policy (para 6.02). Farmers would be encouraged
to form associations (para. 4.07) and establish a revolving fund for the
purchase of veterinary products in particular, but also for the purchase
of improved bulls.
3.22      The main features of the technical package are described in chap-
ter V. To increase fodder production, the priority objective would be to
promote with a large nqmber of farmers the cultivation of fodder strips along
contour lines, namely Setaria, and the improvement of the seasonal kikuyu
grass fallow with legumes such as lupin and Vicia sativa. To increase fodder
production further, more intensive farming methods would be tried with the
most progressive farmers, including double cropping and establishing a
permanent fodder crop such as Tripsacum in the rotation system. Technical
inputs would consist mostly of improved seeds (para 3.21) and organic fertil-
izer produced on the farm, although in the long-term, for intensive farming,
it would be indispensable to introduce chemical fertilizer, provided satis-
factory information is obtained from field trials (para 3.29). Regarding
animal husbandry methods, farmers would be encouraged to reduce their
use of seasonal grazing in the forest; ,therefore stall-feeding of livestock
would be promoted, starting with night stall-feeding and moving progressively
towards all day stall-feeding. In the long-term, more productive livestock
would be introduced, in particulaL dual purpose (milk/meat) cross-bred cattle
Ankole x Brown (para 3.25).
3.23      The main investment items would include the construction of staff
houses, animal husbandry infrastructures (veterinary dispensary, treatment
crush, bulling centers), the development of fodder and tree nurseries, demon-
stration plots and seed multiplication fields, the purchase of vehicles,



- 26 -
materials and equipment for the extension services, vaccines, veterinary
supplies and chemicals, and incremental staff and operating costs for the
extension services for crops and livestock.
3.24     (ii)  Pasture Development in the Gishwati Forest.  Undei -he Project,
2,000 ha of pastures would be established, of which 1,800 ea would be for
farmers)cattle and 200 ha for a technical support center. These pastures
would also serve as firebreaks around forest blocks (para. 3.18).  High
productivity kikuyu grass and white clover pastures woul$ be established.
The existing Ankole cattle breed would be progressively improved with Brown
Swiss to obtain a high productivity dual purpose (milk/*xeat) crossbreed, well
adapted to the local conditions. Herd management standards would be estab-
lished and supervised by the livestock extension services. The forest
pastures would be developed and utilized by farmers who would organize
themselves into associations with assistance and supervLsion from the Sub-
project Livestock Services. The membership criteria and operating procedures
for the associations would be determined by the Subproject Management (para.
4.07). The associations would establish a revolving fund, which would be maintained
by themselves, to pay for veterinary supplies, and possibly to contribute
to the development of some infrastructure such as milking barns or kraals;
in the long-term, animal husbandry staff costs could also be taken over
by these associations. The livestock owners would be expected to husband
their cattle and market the livestock products themselves, although the
Project Livestock Services could provide them with some assistance. The
main investment items would be seeds, tools, veterinary and animal production
infrastructure (veterinary dispensaries, dipping tanks, night kraals, milking
barns), access roads, veterinary supplies, and incremental operating costs
for the animal health and production services.
3.25 (iii) Livestock Technical Support Center. The three main objectives
of the center would be: (a) to undertake some forage multiplication and
pasture improvement trials; (b) to assist farmers interested in introducing
stall-feeding with the procurement of livestock, and (c) to develop a breeding
herd of improved cattle for sale to farmers. The center would also provide
technical supervision to the pastoral associations. The breeding program
would aim at upgrading the local Ankole herd with Brown Swiss, a cross
which has given excellent results in the neighboring Kivu province of Zaire,
in similar ecological conditions. Local Ankole cows and heifers would
be purchased from livestock breeders and crossed with Brown Swiss bulls
imported from Europe, or possibly from Kivu, if available. Only crossbred
cattle would be sold to farmers. The main investments would include development
of infrastructure (buildings, paddocks, access tracks), bulls and semen,
seeds, vehicles and equipment, and operating costs during the first years
of operation of the center until the animals are sold.



- 27 -
3.26     (iv)  Experimental credit.  The credit program would aim essentially
at providing the financial means for farmers to acquire improved cattle,
seeds, and forage material for planting. This program would be coordinated
with the other experimental credit programs undertaken under the IDA-financed
BGM and Mutara projects (para 1.22). RF 10 million have been included in
Project costs for these activities; additional amounts could be allocated
to credit activities as adequate estimates of the demand for such credit
are obtained during Project imlementation.
3.27     (v)  Experimental marketing.  The Project management would hire
short-term consultants' services to assist with the final design of the
experimental marketing component. The milk marketing scheme would consist
of organizing an experimental conservation, collection, and distribution
system with a few farmers' associations. The livestock and meat marketing
activities would consist of first developing an information system for the
sale of breeding and slaughter livestock, involving the regular publication
of cattle prices, the organization of regular cattle markets and the control
of trade permits. Local organization of meat markets, in particular in
rural areas would be reviewed and improvement recommended as appropriate. An
experimental system of contracts between butchers and a few farmers' associations might
also be organized. Provisions have been made in the Project agricultural
credit fund (para. 3.26), for the purchase of milk containers. Provisions
have also been made for the purchase of a vehicle, and for short-term consulting
services to study the local marketing of livestock and livestock products.
The incremental operating costs of running these experimental programs
have been included in the operating costs for the animal health and production
services.
Technical Assistance and Consultants' Services
3.28         Technical assistance would be required for Project management and
to train Rwandese staff to manage Project activities. For forestry activities
some qualified Rwandese technicians are now available (para. 2.09) but
none of them has sufficient managerial experience to manage the proposed
Project initially. A team of specialists would be internationally recruited,
including an administrative and financial director, a director for the
Gishwati Subproject, two silviculturists (one for the fuelwood and pole
Subproject, and one for the softwood plantation program), a construction
superintendent, and one zootechnician for the Gishwati livestock program.
A volunteer could be obtained from a bilateral assistance for the Gishwati
workshop (para. 3.16). The land use planner and the construction superintendent
recruited for the Project preparatory phase could stay on for the Project
implementation if their performance is satisfactory; the land use planner
would become the director of the Gishwati Subproject. All contracts would
be initially for two years, but could be renewed on an annual basis, depending
on the availability of experienced and qualified local staff. Technical
assistance would therefore be provided for about 340 man-months corresponding
to 1.4 man-year for the Project preparatory phase, five technical assistants
for five years, and one for two years for the Project implementation period.
The average cost of US$7,600 per man-month includes salaries, overseas
travel and subsistence. Short-term consultants' services would be hired
to assist Project management with the detailed design of particular aspect
of Project implementation, namely for the experimental credit and marketing
activities, the design of farmers' associations and for the detailed design
of the training component. Twelve man-months of such consultants' services
have been included in Project costs, at an average cost of US$10,200 per
man-months, including fees, international transport and subsistence.



- 28 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference and
conditions of employment of such consultants would be acceptable to IDA.
Studies and Field Trials
3.29      Several studies would be undertaken as part of the Project.  One
study would assess the energy use and future needs of Rwanda; trials would
be conducted in more efficient charcoal making with portable kilns, and a
study would be carried out to develop simple and economical cooking equipment
acceptable to the rural population. In addition, small-scale trials would
be carried out on fertilization and on fodder trees. The Project also
includes funds for studies in the forestry sub-sector which might be iden-
tified during Project implementation, and for the preparation of future
forestry projects.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training
3.30         A simple monitoring and evaluation system would be developed
by the Project management in coordination with the studies Bureau of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. For the forestry programs, this
system would be retained by the Forestry Department upon completion of
the Project (para. 4.11). The financial monitoring would be based on a
simple cost accounting system (para. 3.37). The technical monitoring would
cover in par.:icular the development of the rural woodlots and the fluctuation
of the demand and supply for fuelwood, charcoal and other energy sources
in Rwanda.
3.31         Provisions have been made in the Project for post-graduate
training of forestry engineers and technicians, and for scholarships in
agronomy and livestock related disciplines, e.g. abattoir management and
milk processing. Training funds have also been included for scholarships
in financial disciplines, namely accounting, financial analysis and management.
The technical assistance provided under the Project would also be designed
in large part to provide training for Rwandese staff, including both technical
staff and intermediate and lower level forestry works. The forestry training
program has been designed to complement the ongoing training under the
Swiss forestry project (para. 2.15).
E. Proiect Costs
3.32      Total Project costs are estimated at about RF 2,167 million (US$23.6
million), of which about US$11.8 million or 50% represents foreign exchange
costs. Project costs are summarized in the following table:



- 29 -
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
-----RF million ------      -------US$'000-------
Project Component
Administrative Support
for Forestry Service                10.4      25.2    35.6       0.1    0.3       0.4
Project Management                    30.4      32.6    63.0       0.3    0.4        0.7
Kigali/Butare Sub-Project
Kigali                              94.7      71.3   166.0       1.0    0.8       1.8
Butare                              60.1      35.7    95.8       0.7    0.4        1.1
Sub-total                    154.8    107.0   261.8        1.7    1.2        2.9
Gishwati Sub-Project
Sub-Project Management              15.5      39.1    54.6       0.2    0.4       0.6
Land-Use Plan                        5.4      35.4    40.8       0.1    0.4        0.5
Roads                               39.7      59.7    99.4       0.4    0.7        1.1
Forestry Plantations               116.0      49.3   165.3       1.3    0.5        1.8
Livestock                          165.8    120.6   286.4        1.8    1.3       3.1
Sub-total                    342.5    304.0   646.5        3.8    3.3        7.1
Technical Assistance and
Consultant's Services               10.8    204.7   215.5        0.1    2.2       2.3
Studies and Applied Research          22.0      16.8    38.8       0.2    0.2       0.4
Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Training                            4.8       13.8    18.6       0.05   0.15      0.2
Total Base Costs            575.6    704.2 1 279.8        6.2    7.8      14,0
Contingency Allowances
Physical                            72.5    146.9   219%4        0.8    1.6       2.4
Price                              430.6    237.7   668.3        4.6    2.6       7.2
Sub-Total                   503.1    384.6   887.7        5.4    4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                1.078.7  1_088.8 2,167.5    11.6   12.0         23.6



- 30 -
Project costs are estimated at prices as of February 1980. A physical con-
tingency of 15% was applied to forestry developments and Project administra-
tion, and of 10% to other Project components to reflect general uncertainty
about the detailed scope of Project investments. Price contingencies were
calculated on a cumulative basis: local costs at the rate of 18% 'or 1980,
and 15% p.a. for 1981-1985; foreign exchange costs at 10.5% for 1980, 9% for
1981, 8% for 1982, and 7% for 1983-1985. Taxes included in Project costs are
negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from import duties.
Details of Project costs are summarized in Table 1.
F. Financing
3.33      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
RF            US$           _
(million)      (million)
Government of Rwanda                  235.5             2.6          il
IDA                                1,932.0             21.0         89
Total Project Costs           2,167.5            23.6         100
3.34      The proposed IDA Credit of US$21.0 million would be to the Govern-
ment of Rwanda on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange costs, and about 77% of the local costs. The Government of
Rwanda would contribute about 11% of total Project costs. A Project Revolving
Fund of US$400,000 equivalent would be established and maintained at the level
throughout the Project implementation period (through reimbursements from the
IDA Credit Account and Government annual contributions), or at any other level on
which the Government and IDA agreed. It would be managed by the Project
Coordinator and the Project Administrative and Financial Director under the
control of the Project Management Committe. The objective of establishing
the fund would be to ensure that adequate funds are available for efficient
Project administration. IDA would contribute to the establishment of the
revolving fund by pre-financing US$300,000.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations regarding the establishment and replenishment of this
fund to reflect price increases and the balance of costs not reimbursable
under the IDA Credit. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the
revolving fund be established and the minimum balance of US$100,000 paid up
by the Government. US$1.0 million has been advanced under the IDA Project
Preparation Facility to finance topographic surveys, mapping of the Kigali/
Butare plantations, establishment of the Gishwati Forest land use
plan, upgrading of the major access roads in the Gishwati Forest and
construction of sub-project administration infrastructure. Amounts disbursed
would be reimbursed from the Credit Account.



- 31 -
G. Procurement
3.35      Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment exceeding
US$80,000 would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts would be bulked to the extent pos-
sible. Contracts for materials and equipment costing less than US$80,000
would be awarded following Government procurement procedures, with the proviso
that for purchases of materials and equipment costing above US$20,000, bids or
requests for price quotations should be sought from suppliers representing at
least three countries; these procedures were examined during appraisal and
were found satisfactory. Proposed awards of contracts for procurement of
materials and equipment costing above US$20,000 would be submitted to IDA for
review. The civil works envisaged under the Project are small in size, and
would be scattered throughout Rwanda; they would therefore be unlikely to
attract international firms, and international bidding would not be appro-
priate. Development of the plantation sites would be undertaken directly by
force account under the responsibility of each sub-Project management. For the
major buildings (Project headquarters and housing), local contractors would be
selected after local competitive bidding in accordance with Government procedures
which are satisfactory. The roads and other civil works (small buildings, etc)
would be carried out by force account by the Gishwati sub-Project management.
Assurances regarding these procedures were obtained during negotiations.
H. Disbursements
3.36      Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed over six and a half
years on the following basis:
US$ million
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 95% of total
expenditures for vehicles, equipment and materials;         0.5
(b) 95% of total expenditures for civil works,
including road works, and direct costs of
plantation and livestock developments;                     11.5
(c) 30% of total expenditures for operating costs of
Project administration and extension services
(salaries, and office and vehicle operating costs);        1.0
(d)  100% of total expenditures for technical assistance        3.0
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local
expenditures for studies, applied research,
monitoring and evaluation, and training;                    0.9
(f) Reimbursement of Project Preparation Facility
advance; and                                                1.0
(g)  Unallocated                                                3.1
Total IDA credit                 21.0



- 32 -
Disbursements against (a), (d), (e)b (f), and civil works by contract
under (b) would be fully documented. Disbursements for local expen-
ditures for civil works by force account under (b) and for local
expenditures under (c) would be made against statements of expenditure certified
by the Project <'oordinator and the Administrative and Financial Director, the
documentation of which would be retained for inspection by IDA supervision
missions. An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.37      The Project Management would maintain separate accounts adequate to
exnlain all Project activities, and would establish a simple cost-accounting system.
These accounts would form part of the Ministry's overall accounts and would be
controlled and reviewed following normal Governument financial control procedures
which are satisfactory. Control procedures involve principally a pre-expenditure
control followed by an annual review of Project accounts, both to be carried out by
the Ministry of Plan. Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association. The auditors would specifically review and comment on
the procedures used for control of disbursement against statements of expenditure.
The audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. Assurances on these accounting and audit procedures of Project
investments were obtained during negotiations.
J. Environmental Impact
3.38      Not only does erosion increase with the cutting down of trees, but
soil fertility decreases as agricultural residues are used for fuel instead of
being returned to the land. The main impact of the institution building and
fuelwood components of the proposed Project would be to assist the Government's
efforts to control this process of erosion and degradation by providing addi-
tional sources of firewood and establishing long term policies and practices
to protect Rwanda's forest resources. This should reduce illegal cutting of
forests and, in conjunction with other projects and programs, provide suffi-
cient fuel so that the rural population reduces its reliance on agricultural
residues, dung, etc. for fuel. The Project would have a generally beneficial
impact in the Gishwati area. The remaining natural forest would be preserved,
and the water and soil resources would continue to be protected with a permanent
cover of grass and trees.  Erosion-control measures would be reintroduced in
the farming zones of the surrounding area.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Staffing - (Chart I)
General
4.01      A Project Management Committee, to be established within the Min-
istry of Agriculture and Livestock, would have overall responsibility for
supervision of Project implementation.  It would include the heede-e4--te



- 33 -
Minister of Agriculture and Livestock or his delegate, the Project Coordinator,
the Administrative and Financial director, and the sub-Projects' directors and
their deputies. The Management Committee would be responsible for supervising
the detailed planning, implementation, and performance of the Project. It
would approve the annual work plans, budgets, and performance reports on the
Project. It would delegate day-to-day implementation responsibility to a
Project coordinator who would be a Rwandese agriculturalist. Establishment of the
Project Management Committee, by Ministerial decree, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Prohect coordinator would be assisted by the land use
planner recruited for the Project preparatory phase for the initial organiza-
tion of the Project's logistics and for the detailed planning and start-up of
Project implementation. He would also be assisted by an administrative and
financial director, and supporting services (secretariat, financial section,
and workshop). During the Project implementation period, the Project Coordinator's
office would be located in the buildings to be constructed for the Waters and
Forestry Department in Kigali (para. 3.12). The technical implementation of
the Project would be decentralized into two sub-projects, the Kigali/Butare
fuelwood and pole subproject and the Gishwati subproject. Studies, field trials,
Project monitoring and evaluation and training would be under the direct
responsibility of the Management Committee which would assign implementation
responsibilities to the appropriate directorates, institutions or individuals:
Waters and Forests and Livestock for the technical studies, the Studies Bureau
of the Ministry for Project monitoring, and other Government officials as
appropriate.
4.02.        Given the very limited availability of trained and experienced
manpower in Rwanda, substantial technical assistance would be required for
Project management (para 3.28). Apart from the technical assistance team, it
would be essential that sufficient numbers of qualified Rwandese staff be
available for Project activities; the estiamted Project staffing is given in
Schedule 1. This staffing would be essential to ensure satisfactory Project
implementation and on-the-job training in Project administrative, technical,
and financial management by the technical assistants. Terms of reference for
all key Project staff (Project coordinator, administrative and financial director
and his deputy, sub-project directors and their deputies, heads of the Gishwati
Forestry and Livestock offices and their deputies, and construction superinten-
dent were discussed during negotiations, and assurances were obtained that IDA
would approve the terms of reference, qualifications, and terms and conditions
of employment of the candidates for these positions. It would be a condition
of credit effectiveness that the Project coordinator and the administrative and
financial director had been appointed. It would be a condition of disbursement
for the Kigali/Butare sub-project that the sub-project director and his two
deputies had been appointed, and for the Gishwati sub-project that the sub-project
director, the silviculturist and his deputy, and the livestock specialist and
his deputy had been appointed.



- 34 -
Management of Project Components
4.03      Kigali/Butare fuelwood and pole sub-project.  The fuelwood and pole planta-
tions would be managed by the sub-Project management team during the Project imple-
mentation period and would be handed over to the Forest Department oon Project comple-
tion. Under the Project,an internationally recruited silviculturist would be
sub-project director. He would be responsible for the development
and operation of the fuelwood and pole plantations and rural woodlots in
Kigali and Butare Prefectures. He would be assisted by two deputy silvicul-
turists, one for Kigali, and one for Butare. Both would be qualified foresters
(AO) and employed full-time on the sub-project.  They would also be assisted
by appropriate support staff and labor: forestry technicians (A2), forestry
extension workers, nurserymen, headmen, plantation guards, drivers, and casual
labor. The sub-project headquarters would be in Kigali in the same office complex as
the Waters and Forests Department and the Project Coordinator's office (para 3.12).
The Butare program would have its own office, and staff housing would be
provided for the deputy silviculturist and the forestry technicians. These
management arrangements would be limited to the plantation establishment and
maintenance program under the Project. New arrangements for the possible
exploitation of the plantations would be agreed upon between the Government of
Rwanda and IDA at a later date (para. 7.02). Site selection, planning and
allocation of individual plots for rural woodlots would be done by the commune
agricultural extension agent with assistance from the forestry extension
workers. Technical support would be provided mostly by the forestry extension
agents and the nurserymen, particularly during the time of the year when
little work is done at the nurseries. The planting and maintenance and
eventual exploitation would be done by the farmers themselves.
4.04      Gishwati Sub-Project.  The forestry and livestock development activities
would be managed by the sub-project management team during the Project implementa-
tion period. A technical Coordination Committee for agricultural projects
would be established under the umbrella of Gisenyi Prefecture to
ensure coordination between all agricultural projects in the area. Upon
completion of the Project, the farming intensification activities would be
handed over to the crop and animal husbandry extension services of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock. Long-term arrangements for the management of
the Gishwati Forest have still to be designed, and an objective of the
Project would be to assist in the development of a management system which
would ensure appropriate technical control by the Water and Forests Department
while ensuring the involvement of the local population to the extent feasible.
Assurances   were   obtained at negotiations that the Government would exchange
views with IDA on this issue no later than December 31, 1985. An internationally
recruited technician (agriculturalist/zootechnician or forester) would be the
director of the Gishwati Sub-project.l He would be assisted by a silviculturist
as head of the   forestry    office, a zootechnician or a veterinarian as head
of the livestock office, and by appropriate support staff (para 4.02).
The latter three technicians would also be recruited internationally. The
Sub-project headquarters would include support services: an accountant, a
secretary/typist, two mechanics, a storeman, and a team of surveyors. The
final location of the sub-project headquarters had not yet been decided.
However, it should be centrally located within the sub-project area,
preferably on one of the east west roads which crosses the Gishwati
Forest. Senior staff housing (sub-project director, heads of



- 35 -
afforestation and livestock offices and their deputies) would be provided
either in Gisenyi or near the sub-project headquarters. Junior forestry and
livestock staff housing would be provided in the Project area at the Sub-Project
headquarters, or at the central nursery, at the Technical Support Center, and
in the communes. The location of the Sub-Project headquarters and senior staff
housing was discussed and agreed upon between IDA and the Government at negotiations.
4.05      The Forestry Office would be headed by an internationally
recruited silviculturist assisted by a deputy, a forester (AO or Ai), and appro-
priate support staff and labor:  forest technicians (A2), forest extension
workers, drivers, permanent labor and casual labor. The forestry office
would include four operational sectors whose geograpnic&l coverage would be
finalized during the preparation of the land use plan for the Gishwati
Forest (para 3.17). The central nursery would be built as close as possible
to the sub-project headquarters, depending on the availability of water. It
would be headed by a forest technician (A2) who would also be responsible for
assisting the forage development and farming intensification section with the
rural woodlot activities. One or more small nurseries might be required
in order to reduce transport costs. If the Taungya system 1/ were adopted
on an experimental basis, the allocation of plots would be made by a plot
allocation committee, which would include the Bourgmestre of the interested
commune, or his representative, and the sub-project manager and his deputy;
priority would be given to landless crop farmers. As in the case of the
fuelwood and pole plantations in Kigali and Butare, future management of the
plantation for purposes of exploitation would be defined at a future date
(para 7.03).
4.06      The Livestock Office would be headed by an internationally recruited
zootechnician or veterinarian, assisted by a deputy veterinarian (AO), one
agronomist (A2) for the experimental credit and marketing activities, and
general support staff. The deputy would be directly responsible for the
overall health protection activities, and for the breeding activities at the
Technical Support Center. The livestock office would include two operational
sections: a pasture development section composed of a Technical Support
Center (para. 3.24) and a grazing zone; and a forage development and farming
intensification section covering animal husbandry and crop development activ-
ities.  The two sections would be respectively headed by a zootechnician and
an agricultural engineer (AO or Al). The zootechnician (AO) would also head
the Technical Support Center and assist with forage development in the farming
intensification activities. The livestock office would operate with assis-
tance from extension staff (para 3.21).
4.07      Parmers' Associations would be established both in the grazing zone
of the forest and in the farming zone outside the forest.  A few such associa-
tions already exist in the area and should be a dynamic and supportive instru-
ment of the Project activities. They would eventually form a federation which
would be a direct partner of dialogue between the farmers and the sub-project
management. Prior to establishing these associations, membership criteria
and operating procedures would be prepared by the sub-project management team.
1/   Under the Taungya system farmers are permitted to clear and cultivate
land designated for forestry development for a fixed period (normally
two years); when the plantation is established, the farmer is allocated
a new plot elsewhere.



- 36 -
The results of the socio-economic survey (para 3.18) would be taken into account and
information obtained on similar organizational systems, either in Rwanda or in
neighboring countries. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
proposed membership criteria and operating'procedures for such associations
would be submitt-d to IDA for approval at the latest by November 1, 1981, as
part of the second annual workplan (para 4.09).
4.08      Studies and field trials.  The Project coordinator would propose
to the Management Committee, for their approval, suitable arrangements for
implementation of these components by the appropriate Directorates within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; this would be done in the context of
the annual work plans. A study of Rwanda's energy needs and possible sources
of supply until the year 2000 would be undertaken by the Forestry Department
with assistance from consultants as appropriate. For the collection of
statistics, it could use support from the Studies Bureau of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, from the Statistical Institute of Rwanda, and
possibly from ISAR. The trials of improved charcoal production methods would
also be undertaken by the Forestry Department; it would be necessary to
import suitable portable kilns for that purpose. Demonstrations would be
made in the Bugesera region which is the main charcoal production area, and
in other parts of the country using Eucalyptus wood. A consultant would be
recruited to train local operators and supervisors, and arrangements would be
made for the takeover of this operation after Project completion. The
Forestry Department would also undertake additional studies and trials
related to forestry identified during the Project implementation period; the
responsibility for tEi studies and trials to design more efficient cooking
methods for use throughout Rwanda could be entrusted to the university or
another appropriate institution. Possible studies and trials related to
livestock development would be undertaken by the Livestock Directorate.
Studies for future project preparation would be undertaken with local staff
and consultants. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms
of reference and conditions of execution for the studies and trials would be
submitted to IDA for approval.
Annual Work Plans
4.09      The Project coordinator and sub-project directors would prepare annual
work plans as simple tools for systematic Project management. The major elements
of a work plan would be: (a) a detailed description of activities by sub-project;
(b) a detailed plan of operations for the forthcoming 12-month period (preferably
the fiscal year); (c) a detailed investment and operating budget for this work
period; (d) a detailed financing plan; and (e) a staffing plan. All these elements
would be supported by appropriate documentation and justification. The draft
annual work plans would be approved by the Project management Committee, then
submitted to IDA for approval at the latest by October 1 of each year, starting
in 1980, so that the approved budget could be entered in the normal budget cycle
of the Government. The work plan for fiscal year 1981 would be maintained as a
draft until the completion of the preparatory activities, when it would be jointly
reviewed and finalized by IDA and the Government.  These work plans would also be
useful instruments for Project supervision by IDA, and would provide an effective
framework for modifying Project investments as experience warrants. Work plan
arrangements have worked well under other IDA financed projects, notably the BGM
and Mutara Projects (para 1.03). Assurances on the above arrangements were
obtained at negotiations.



- 37 -
B. Proiect Implementation
4.10      The Project would be implemented over a period of about six years,
including a preparatory phase and a f ive-year implementation phase starting about
December 1980 Preparatory work has begun since January 1980, but most
activities are scheduled to start in July with the arrival of the consultants. A ten-
tative Project implementation schedule has been designed (Charts II and III),
and was discussed at negotiations. The Project preparatory phase would
include the completion of the surveys and mapping for the fuelwood and pole
sub-project, and preparation of the land-use development plan for the Gishwati
Forest, and the construction of a minimum of buildings and access
roads. For the forestry component, priority would be given to the start-up of
the eucalyptus and pine plantations; the rural woodlots would not be started
on a large scale before the second Project year.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation.and ReportinR
4.11      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Under the Mutara Agricultural and
Livestock Development Project-Phase II (Credit 937-RW), the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock is to establish a simple system to monitor Project
progress within the Studies Bureau. The system could be expanded to monitor
key implementation indicators for the proposed Project. This system would
be continuously reviewed by IDA supervision missions, and would be amended
from time to time as appropriate. The main indicators for the forestry
activities would include the number of hectares cleared, successfully planted
and established, both for the fuelwood and pole, and for the softwood saw
timber plantations; the lengths of roads, tracks, or firebreaks built or
upgraded; the new buildings and housing constructed; the number of seedlings
sold to villages and the approximate area in hectares of rural woodlots
planted. For the crop and livestock activities, indicators would be the
number of farmers' associations established, the number of livestock stalls
built, the lengths of fodder anti-erosion hedges traced, planted and estab-
lished, the number of farms practicing day and/or night livestock stallfeed-
ing, the number of extension agents trained and in post, veterinary and
animal production infrastructure and housing built, and the area developed in
the forest grazing zone. The socio-economic impact of the forestry, crop and
livestock activities on the rural population, and Project costs would also be
monitored; cost information would be made available to the Studies Bureau
from the cost accounting system established by the Project Administrative
and Financial Department (para 3.37)
4.12      Reporting.  The Project Management Committee would submit regular
semi-annual and annual reports on the Project to IDA. Annual reports would be
submitted no later than three months after the end of each fiscal year. Six
months after the expected closing date (i.e. September 30, 1986) the Government
would prepare a completion report summarizing Project performance and evaluating
its successes and failures and would submit the report to IDA. Assurances
on the above were obtained at negotiations.



- 38 -
V. TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
A. Kigali/Butare Fuelwood and Poles Sub-proiect
5.01      Species.  The main species to be planted would be Eucalyptus grandis/
saligna, although E. tereticornis/camaldulensis might be planted at lower eleva-
tions and where the rainfall is below 1,000 mm in Kigali prefecture. All these
species coppice freely, and would be grown on a rotation 3of 8 years, with one
seedling and 3 coppice crops yielding 10, 10, 9, and 8 m /ha per crop respec-
tively (see para 5.06 below). After 32 years or so, the plantation should be
completely replanted.
5.02      Nurseries.  All the planting stock required would be produced in
two central nurseries, one in Kigali and one in Butare, with possible depot
nurseries in order to reduce transport costs. Imported seeds, preferably
from Kenya and Tanzania, would be used to ensure better results than local
seeds.  The seeds would be sown in black polythene tubes (50 mm x 120 mm flat,
150-250 gauge) rather than in polythene bags or on seed beds; shading would be
avoided as much as possible. The average production cost per seedling has
been estimated at RF 1.70.
5.03      Planting.  The planting program (ha) and seedling requirements for
the Kigali and Butare plantations are summarized below:
-------   Kigali------------    -----------Butare------------
Area (ha)    Seedlings ('000)    Area (ha)    Seedlings ('000)
Year 1              300               600              200              400
2              700             1,400              400              800
3           1,000              2,000              600            1,200
4           1,500              3,000              900            1,800
5           1,500              3,000              900            1,800
Total             5,000            10,000            3,000            6,000
In areas susceptible to termite infestation, the seedlings would be treated
with a suitable chemical three times at weekly intervals in the nursery prior
to planting, in order to ensure that the chemical permeates the soil inside
the tubes; seedlings would be planted with their tubes intact, and raised
slightly above ground level to prevent any fresh soil from coming into con-
tact with treated nursery soil and plant. Ground preparation would be car-
ried out manually in all plantations which is the method traditionally used
in Rwanda. Mechanical ground preparation such as ripping or ploughing is
not recommended as it would increase costs substantially without signi-
ficantly increasing yields and would be impractical on most sites because of



- 39 -
slope. The transport of seedlings from the nurseries would be by two tractors
and six trailers in Kigali, one tractor and three trailers in Butare. The
spacing between plants would be 2m50 x 2m50, giving an average stocking of
1,600 stems per hectare. Allowing for 25% failures, 2,000 plants would be
required on average per hectare. The planting task is assumed to be 150
plants per man-day, equivalent to 11 man-days/ha. Only one tenth of the area
would be fertilized, at 100 grams per plant, to determine the need for fertil-
izer under future planting programs. "Beating up" (the replacement of failures)
would only be carried out when the mortality rate exceeded 10 to 20%. Given
the fast growth rate of Eucalyptus and the close initial spacing, weeding
should be required only in the first year after planting; all weeding would be
done manually.  Pruning and thinninR would not be required, except for a
possible coppice reduction - thinning at each coppicing operation.
(b)  Indirect Afforestation Activities
5.04      No road construction is necessary in Kigali and Butare as there
already exists a well-developed access road network in these areas. For fire
protection, 10m wide clean-cultivated strips, with belts of cleared and burned
strips, would be used; this would imply about lOOm of fireline per ha of planta-
tion, equivalent to a line around all blocks averaging 16 ha. Firebreaks
would be maintained; one permanent patrolman would be needed per 100 ha of
plantation, and forestry extension workers would be employed for protection
against fire, theft, and browsing damage, and for fire-fighting when needed.
(c) Production Costs
5.05      For Kigali and Butare plantations, direct afforestation costs per
hectare would be RF 13,220 (US$144), plus continuing maintenance costs (weeding,
thinning out coppice); ground preparation would represent 45% of these costs,
seedling production 27%, protection against termites 3.5%, transport costs
8%, planting 9%, fertilizing 7%, and failure replacement 1.5%. Average
indirect capital costs per hectare are estimated at FR 8,300 (US$90), of
which roads would represent 24%, buildings 47%, transport 25%, and fire
protection 4%. Recurrent costs per hectare are estimated at about RF 2,700
(US$29) during the Project period, and at about RF 1,600 (US$17) thereafter.
(d) Rates of Growth and Yields
5.06      The rates of growth and yields for Kigali and Butare would be
similar. They are summarized below:
Year                     MAI (m 3/ha Y/    Yields (m /ha)
8 - seedling                     10                   80
16 - coppice 1                    10                  80
24 - coppice 2                     9                   72
32 - coppice 3 (followed           8                   64
by replanting)
1/   MAI - Mean Annual Increment (volume).



- 40 -
5.07      Pilot Rural Woodlots.  Rural woodlots would be individually owned
but when possible the plantings would be grouped at sites selected by the
commune with the technical advice of the forestry extension service. However,
given the land shortages in Rwanda, alternative planting locations must also
identified, for example along farm feeder roads, along farm and homesite
boundaries, and possibly on farms as part of the crop/fallow rotation system.
Species like Black Wattle which improve soil fertility would be planted in
addition to Eucalyptus on a trial basis. The technical features of the rural
woodlot program, in terms of species, spacing, ground preparation, etc. would
be similar to the technical features for the eucalyptus plantations. The
seedlings would be produced in the central nurseries in each prefecture
(para. 3.15), and sold to interested individual farmers, communes, or insti-
tutions. The estimated sale price of seedlings would be RF 2.00 if sold at
cost. Farmers have not paid for seedlings in the past, and a pragmatic
approach to fixing sale prices for seedlings would be essential. Some sub-
sidies for seedlings might therefore be desirable in the initial period to
encourage the population's interest, and final price levels would therefore
be determined during Project implementation (para. 6.02). Over the project
period, an estimated 800 ha would be   afforested through rural woodlots in
Butare and Kigali. The management ana exploitation of rural woodlots would'
be left to the discretion of the owners, according to their needs. Fuelwood
and poles would be cut selectively, but roughly on a five-year cycle. Yields
would probably be lower than in the case of regular state plantations. After
30 years, the woodlots should be replanted.
B. Gishwati Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development Sub-Project
Technical features of the Softwood Saw Timber Plantations
(a) Afforestation
5.08      Species.  The principal species to be planted at Gishwati would be
Pinus patula, although other pine species would be tried on a small scale,
e.g. P. kesiva, P. elliottii, and P. oocarpa. Pine would be grown on a 25
year rotation. The first thinning would take place at 12 years.
5.09      Nurseries.  All the seedlings required would be produced in a
central nursery, but depot nurseries would be established as appropriate
in order to reduce transport costs. Seeds would be imported from Kenya and
Tanzania. Seeds would be sown in block polythene tubes (50 mm x 120 mm
flat). The average production cost per seedling is estimated at just over
RF 2.00.
5.10      Planting.  The planting program and seedling requirements are
summarized below:



- 41 -
Area (ha)      Seedlings ('000)
Year 1                                      --                __
Year 2                                     200               280
Year 3                                     400               560
Year 4                                     600               840
Year 5                                     800             1,120
Total                                    2,000             2,800
No planting would be done in the first year to allow for the completion of
the land use plan for the Gishwati Forest (para. 3.17), and the demarcation of
roads, fireline boundaries, and areas for planting; some fencing of reforesta-
tion blocks might be necessary to prevent cattle damage. It has been assumed
that hired labor would be used for ground preparation and maintenance of
the plantations. However, alternative land development systems would be
experimented with on a small-scale, such as silvicultural associations,
or the "Tangya system" (page 35, footnote), in order to determine the system
best adapted to local conditions for adoption either in the later years of the
Project or in future projects. The transport of seedlings from the nursery would
be done with one tractor and three trailers. The spacing would be 3 m x 3 m,
giving an average stocking of 1,111 stems/ha; allowing for 25% failures, an
average of 1,400 plants/ha would be required. The planting task is assumed to
be 150 plants/manday, equivalent to 7.5 mandays/ha. Fertilizing would only
be undertaken on a trial basis (e.g. in years 3 and 5) to determine the need
for fertilizers. Failures would be replaced. Weeding would be carried out
for two years. Pruning would be carried out in years 6, 9, and 12. Thinning
would be carried out in years 12, 15, and 18, with clearfelling in year 25.
(b) Indirect Afforestation Activities
5.11       In addition to the upgrading and building of two main all-weather
roads (para. 3.11), a basic forest road network would be built at an average
density of 3 km of forest tracks per 100 ha. Road maintenance costs are
estimated at 10% of initial construction costs. For fire protection, grazing
areas would act as wide firebreaks; in addition, narrower firebreaks would be
used inside each planted block. Continuing fire protection activities would
include firebreak maintenance, fire watching and fire fighting (one patrolman
per 200 ha).
(c) Production Costs
5.12      Direct afforestation costs per hectare would be about RF 41,140
(US$453), of which land clearing and ground preparation would represent 85%.
Maintenance costs would cover weeding, pruning, and thinning. Indirect
afforestation capital costs per hectare are estimated at RF 13,550 (US$147),
of which roads would represent 37%, buildings 42%, transport 20%, and fire
protection 1%. Recurrent costs per hectare would be about RF 5,515 (US$60) a
year during the Project period (72% representing direct costs of expatriates)
and RF 1,780 (US$19) a year thereafter.



- 42 -
(d) Rates of Growth and Yields
5.13      The rates of growth and yields per hectare are summarized below:
Yield:  Volume m /ha             fverage Vol/
Operation           Year      Sawlogs     Smallwood      Total      Tree Removed
3
(m)
Thinning   I         12          25           20            45           0.15
II        15          35           20            55           0.22
III        18          40           20            60           0.40
Clearfelling         25         110           30           140          0.47
Total Volume
of Production                  210           90          300
MAI = 12 m /ha                   70%          30%          100%
5.14      Pilot Rural Woodlots.  Technical features and benefits would be
similar to those described in para 5.08 for Kigali and Butare.
Technical Features of the Integrated Crop and Livestock Development
5.15      The production system proposed under the Project would be based on
farmers' current practices, i.e., terracing, crop rotation, and fallow, and
grazing of livestock on post-harvest croplands and within the perimeter of the
Gishwati Forest. Given the present shortage of forage in the farming zone,
the low productivity of the forest grazing lands, and the limited animal
health protection, a four-fold approach for livestock development would be
followed. (a) Forage production in the farming_zone would be increased: in
the short-term, strips of fodder crops, namely Setaria, and possibly some
legumes, would be planted along contour lines, also serving as anti-erosion
hedges; Kikuyu grass fallows would be improved with legumes such as lupin
andVicia sativa, and cattle or smallstock would be stall-fed part of the
time; in the long-term, double cropping and permanent foddercrops such as
Tripsacum would be introduced in the cropping system, stock would be
stall-fed at all times, and the stocking rate would be controlled on the
fallows; (b) a 2,000 ha grazing zone of high productivity pastures would be
developed within the perimeter of the Gishwati Forest to accomodate excess
cattle from the farming ares, (c) animal health protection would be improved
with the strengthening of the extension veterinary services and fully equipped
veterinary infrastructures; and (d) the Ankole cattle herd would be improved
with Brown-Swiss to produce a high productivity dual purpose (meat/milk) animal.
The estimated rates of development are summarized below:



- 43 -
Technical Support Center           Pastoral Zone
Project                                            Ha under                   Ha under
Year      Stall-fed Cattle        Ha Cleared a/   Pastures    Ha Cleared   Pastures
(A.U)
2               50                100              -               300        300
3              100                100             100              400        400
4              100                 -              100              500        500
5              250                 -               -               600        600
Total            500                 200             200           1,800       1,800
a/   Forage multiplication sector.
5.16      The Project intensification activities would have a greater impact
on livestock production than on crop production. Crop yields are assumed
to remain constant as the measures introduced under the Project would essen-
tially contribute to maintain rather than increase soil fertility. Crop
yields would increase significantly only when more sophisticated farming
techniques have been introduced, such as improved seeds, double cropping, and
chemical fertilizers. With the Project, cattle productivity and numbers are
expected to increase. At full development, after 13 years, about 70 cross-bred
bulls would be available for sale every year to farmers. 15,000 A.U. would be
accomodated in the forest and 20,000 in the farming zone- incremental milk produc-
tion has been estimated at 1 million liters, and meat at 13 tons. The following
assumptions for the situation at full development have been made on the basis of
the improvements resulting from the Project investment, and compared to the
pre-Project situation:
With Project - At Full
Before Project Development (after 13 years)
Area under pastures
- Forest zone (ha)                                             5,000
- Farming zone (ha)                                           10,000
Herd numbers (head)                        26,600                   35,800
Total A.U. (UBT) a/                        23,000                   35,000
Stocking rate
- Forest zone (UBT/ha)                0.7                       3
- Farming zone (UBT/ha)                1                        2
Calving rate (%)                           60                        80
Culling rate (%) - Cows                    12                        15
- Bulls                  10                       25
Calf mortality rate (Z)                    23                        12
1-2 years old                           25                         6
Adult mortality rate (%)                    5                         2
Extraction rate (%)                        13                        17
1/   UBT:  Unite de betail tropical:  one adult cattle of 250 kg.



- 44 -
C. Producer Benefits
5.17      For the fuelwood and pole plantations the Government is likely to
be the principal beneficiary. An estimated 3,000 farmers would, however,
benefit from the pilot rural woodlots, although they would not derive any
direct financial benefits since they would consume all the wood themselves.
For the timber plantations, the Government would also probably be the principal
beneficiary unless, as a result of the socio-economic survey (para 3.18) and
trials, and integrated management system for crops and forestry activities in
the area were recommended. In this case, farmers from the area could also be
the direct beneficiaries as they could participate directly in the management of
the area (para. 4.04). The value of sales or consumption from an area of 0.5
ha under crops is valued at about RF 17,000 a year. For the livestock intensi-
fication activities, an estimated 40,000 farm families would receive direct
assistance under the Project.
VI. GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
6.01      In undertaking the proposed Project, the Government of Rwanda would
in effect be committed to a long-term development program that will not yield
financial or other benefits for many years. In particular, the Gishwati
softwood timber plantation component would fulfill its long-term objectives
only if up to 10,000 ia of plantations are eventually established, providing
sustained wood suppli!s for a sawmilling industry. Full benefits would not
be attained for 25 years, although some timber could be produced after 12 to
14 years. The Kigali and Butare fuelwood and pole plantations would be
fully productive after eight years. For all Government plantations, mainte-
nance costs during the long development period would be the responsibility of
the Government, although external financing might be available for some of
these costs. Annual recurrent costs of the fuelwood and pole plantations
following the Project period (1980 prices) are estimated at about RF 14
million (US$175,000) a year; for the Gishwati timber plantation they would
average about RF 4 million (US$44,000) a year from 1986 onwards. In both
cases, it is assumed that no further expatriate management assistance would be
required. The cost of production of seedlings produced for the rural woodlots
would be supported by the farmers; the estimated annual cost in year 4 would
be about RF 880,000 (US$9,500). It is expected that at least part of these
costs would be recovered from the farmers through payment of a charge reflect-
ing costs of production; at 1980 prices this would be about RF 2 per plant
(para. 5.07) and would produce revenues at full development of about RF 1
million per year.
6.02      Introduction of charges to farmers should be gradual, as
farmers are not accustomed to paying for many inputs and services and might
resist payment for seedlings in cash. Current Government practice is that
coffee and other seedlings, except for cinchona, are distributed free of
charge, and this might discourage payment for tree seedlings. Government



- 45 -
officials have agreed, in principle, to the establishment of a national policy
of recovery of costs of inputs from beneficiaries, principally in order to
generate adequate revenue to continue and expand rural services. Charges for
seedlings should be introduced in the light of this broader policy, rather
than in isolation. If farmers proved unwilling to pay cash for seedlings, and
if no coherent cost recovery policy were introduced for other inputs, then the
practice of requiring payment for seedlings should be reviewed in order to
ensure that farmers had adequate incentives to plant trees. Alternative
solutions might involve a reduced charge for seedlings, or distribution of
seedlings in conjunction with communal labor schemes. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would, to the extent feasible,
charge to farmers the full cost of seedlings (excluding expatriate management
costs), and would consult periodically with IDA on the level of charges for
seedlings, including specifically the adequacy of incentives to farmers to
plant trees. This issue would be specifically addressed during each annual
work plan review (para. 4.09). Revenue to the Government from the fuelwood
and pole and the timber plantations would be determined by stumpage charges,
which are discussed below in paras. 7.01 and 7.02.
6.03      The costs of forestry, crop and livestock extension services would
be covered through general tax revenues and not directly from participants,
as these services are normally provided free of charge. The incremental costs
involved would represent a very small proportion of the Government budget and
should not represent an undue burden. Development and operating costs of the
technical support center would be recovered through the sale of breeding
stock. Costs of veterinary services would be partly recovered as participants
would pay for drugs and veterinary treatments (para. 3.21). Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations. Once established, farmers' associations
would handle some activities, and take over some operating costs, namely for
the operation and maintenance of spray races and bulling centers which have
been estimated at about RF 500,000 a year. A tentative Government cash flow is
included as Table 5.
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES
Forestry
7.01      Fuelwood and Pole Production.  No problems are anticipated in
marketing the Project fuelwood and pole production since most of it would be
used by Kigali and Butare consumers for charcoal, fMelwood, and poles.  The
Project estimated total production of 2.4 million m would only represent 32%
of total estimated urban demand for these products by the year 2000. Based on
the Project's production targets for eucalyptus, a coppice rotltion of eight
years, four coppice 5otations, a3mean annual increment of 10 m /ha for the
first two crops, 9 m /ha and 8 m /ha respectively for the third and fourth
crops, and using a discount 5ate of 10%, the theoretical stumpage rate (stand-
ing value) would be RF 700/m at mid.1979 prices. The average s umpage rate
would thus be approximately RF 600/m  for fuelwood, and RF 800/m  for poles
(at the present price ratio). These rates are reasonable when compared with
current market prices. For charcoal, the price of a 35 kg bag has been esti-
mated at about RF 400, which is in the range of current prices when charcoal



- 46 -
is readily available; the estimate was based on a 20% yield of charcoal per
solid m of wood (specific gravity when dry - 0.6), i.e. 120 kg or 3.4 bags
of 35 kg and a doubling of wood costs to allow for transportation. At lower
yields of 10% and 15%, the corresponding prices would be RF 540 and RF 820
respectively.
7.02      Saw timber Production.  The saw timber produced at Gishwati would be
marketed throughout Rwanda. At mid-1979 production costs, and expected yields
per ha (para. 5.12), the stumpage rates calculated on the basis of a 10%
discount rate would be:
sawlogs:    RF 2500/3 (average) (about US$27.20)
smallwood:  RF 500/m   (about US$5.4)
3
Adding the logging and transport costs estimated at RF 1,500/m , the delivered
cost at a lawmill on the edge of the Gishwati Forest would be approximately
RF 4,000/m . On the basis of pine plantations, and assuming a 40  recovery
rate from sawlog to saw timber and sawmilling costs of RF 3,000/m (sawn), thS
total cost of one cubic meter of sawn timber at millsite would be RF 13,000/m
This would be considerably less than the price quoted for sawn timber imported
from Kenya, but considerably more than present prices for local sawn timber.
Assuming a total pla ted area of 10,000 ha after 25 y ars, a sawmilling
capacity of 84,000 m (roundwood), producing 34,000 m of sawn timber, would
be required. Several designs could be envisaged. The first sawmill would
need to be in operation in year 12 when the first thinnings take place.
7.03      The Government of Rwanda does not yet have well established
policies for plantation exploitation and wood pricing. Permits to cut trees
from government or communal plantations are issued,but most wood is cut
without a permit; firewood permits are FR 160 per stere, and transport taxes
for charcoal are only RF 100 per pick-up truck load (about 40 sacks of 35
kg). Prices for poles are established annually without analysis of market
forces or replacement costs. The Government agreed during appraisal that
pricing policies for the forestry sub-sector need to be better defined, and
that appropriate legislation and a stronger system to regulate the management
and exploitation of the country's forest resources are urgently required.
During Project implementation, the Forestry Department would design detailed
proposals for the exploitation of production resulting from the Project; the
basic principles would be that stumpage rates would reflect the full costs of
plantation and maintenance. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that: (a) a general pricing policy for wood products would be introduced that
would be based on production costs for fuelwood, poles, and saw timber, and
would be reviewed annually; and (b) a policy for the exploitation of tree
plantations would be introduced following consultation with IDA, which would
include (i) the establishment of cutting fees for existing plantations, at the
earliest possible date but no later than December 31, 1985; and (ii) a proposal
for the exploitation of the fuelwood and pole, and of the saw timber plantations
established under the Project would be prepared no later than December 31, 1985.



- 47 -
Livestock
7.04      While it is expected that most of the incremental production result-
ing from the Project investments will be marketed through traditional channels
during the Project period, it will become necessary to develop a local milk
processing capacity, and perhaps a meat processing capacity as well, there-
after.  The production would then be marketed in major urban centers, princi-
pally Kigali. These questions would be investigated during the final design
of the marketing component (para 3.27).
VIII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The principal direct benefits of the Project would be:  (i) fuel-
wood, charcoal, and building poles produced in the plantations near Kigali and
Butare to supply part of the fuel and building poles requirements of Kigali
and Butare; (ii) sawn timber and smallwood produced by the Gishwati saw
timber plantation to support a future sawmilling industry and help meet other
industrial or rural fuel needs; (iii) fuelwood and poles produced in the rural
woodlots to meet the needs of participating rural families; and (iv) increased
production of meat and milk resulting from the Gishwati livestock component.
Further benefits would result if the woodlot program enabled the rural popu-
lation to return agricultural residues to the soil, thereby increasing soil
fertility and reducing erosion.
8.02      The economic rate of return from all directly productive components
of the Project is estimated at 14%. The costs of strengchening the Forestry
Department, future project preparation and the studies and trials were not
included, as benefits from these activities would accrue principally to future
projects and programs. Rates of return were also calculated separately for
the Kigali, Butare, and Gishwati plantations, and for the Gishwati livestock
component. No separate rate of return was calculated for the seedlings
produced for rural woodlots, because of the difficulty of determining a value
for the eventual wood production. Incremental wood production would probably
substitute for agricultural residues as a source of fuel and the principal
benefit would thus be increased crop yields and reduced erosion resulting from
the use of the residues on cropland.
8.03      The rate of return for the Kigali and Butare fuelwood and poles
plantations was calculated on the basis of a per hectare model, including all
costs of plantation development and maintenance, using a current market price
for charcoal of about RF 500 a bag adjusted for transport and pr cessing
costs; this would be equivalent to about RF 1290 or US$14 per m of roundwood.
It vas assumed that this price level reflects a meaningful market value for
the wood produced. The resulting rate of return would be 13% for Kigali and
12% for Butare. If alternative assumptions on the value of wood were utilized,
such as taking the equivalent value of imported alternative fuel supplies,
wood, or charcoal, the rates of return would be significantly higher. The
Project life for the fuelwood and pole plantation model was assumed to be 33
years.



- 48 -
8.04      The economic rate of return for the Gishwati plantations was also
calculated on the basis of a per hectare model and would be about 12% over
26 years. All direct costs were included in the analysis. The economic
value of the pine production was assumed to be equivalent to the theoretical
value of wood received from Kenya, that is RF 5,335/m3 for sawlogs, and RF 500/m3 for
smallwood, wlth values adjusted to take account of logging, transport,
and milling costs. This value is appropriate since there is no alternative
source of timber readily available, imported timber is prohibitively expen-
sive, and other substitutes for timber such as metal or fiberglass are con-
siderably more expensive; if production were valued at levels reflecting these
possible sources of substitution, the rate of return would be significantly
higher. The assumptions used in the analysis would imply an economic value of
3
standing timber of about US$58 per m . The economic value of production from
the pine plantation was adjusted to take into account expected increases in
international relative prices for sawn timber. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits were valued at the shadow exchange rate of US$1 = RF 110, which was
assumed to reflect accurately the value of foreign exchange. It was assumed
that the production of the Gishwati saw timber plantations would substitute
for imports. Unskilled labor was valued at prevailing market rates which were
assumed to reflect the economic value of such labor.
8.05      The economic rate of return for the Gishwati livestock component was
calculated on the basis of a herd model of 1,000 head of cattle, and was
estimated at about 20%. The life of this component was estimated to be 20
years. All direct costs were included in the analysis. The rates of return
were tested fo>r sensit- v\ity, in addition to the analysis of alternative assump-
tions described in parzs 8.03 and 8.04. With a 10% reduction in yields, the
Project rate of return would decrease by 1 percentage point from 14% to 13%,
and with a one year lag in Project benefits, the rate of return would decrease
by one and a half percentage point to 12.5%.
8.06      The Project involves several risks.  The scope of the Project is
far reaching and requires a long-term Government commitment, and solid
management and organization. Delays in implementation could result from
management problems, difficulties in recruiting staff, or slow deliveries of
material and equipment procured abroad, but these difficulties would not
significantly reduce benefits since corresponding expenditures would be
slower in consequence. To offset this risk, the Project includes substantial
technical assistance, including support for the preparatory and start-up
activities. Price escalation is another risk if Project implementation is
delayed, but the proposed implementation schedule is viewed as realistic.
Another possible risk is that yields from the plantations might be lower than
expected, although experience in neighboring African countries suggests that
yield estimates are reasonable, and probably conservative. A further risk is
the destruction of the plantations by fire but provision has been made for
adequate fire prevention measures. The risks that the production might not
find a ready market are minimal, since projected wood production will not meet
estimated demand. No practical and inexpensive alternative energy source has
yet been developed, and it is highly unlikely that wood will be replaced by
peat, solar energy, methane gas, or any other fuel in the foreseeable future.
The Gishwati forestry component presents an additional risk which is that the
local population might not support the plantation program, and could even



- 49 -
sabotage it, if not involved in a development system that will offer direct
benefits to farmers. To offset this risk, the Project design was modified to
include assistance to the surrounding population and to facilitate the develop-
ment of plantation and forest extension systems adapted to local conditions
during Project implementation as the results of the economic survey are
available and as experienced is gained. The main risk of Gishwati livestock
component is the time required for farmers to adopt and manage efficiently
the proposed technical package, both in the farming zone outside the forest,
and in the grazing zone in the forest. To offset this risk, the crop and
animal husbandry extension services are being strengthened under the Project.
Employment and Income Distribution
8.07      Project investments would have aposivite employment impact in the
Project areas since plantation developmentwould be highly labor-intensive.
The Kigali eucalyptus plantation would employ about 125 permanent staff and up
to 2,500 laborers; the Butare eucalyptus plantationwould employ about 75
permanent staff and up to 1,500 temporary laborers, and the Gishwati
pine plantation would require approximately 100 permanent and up to 1,000
casual laborers. The total number of permanent jobs created would be about
400; another 5,000 workers would be employed to meet unskilled labor needs.
Another important benefit would be the Project's effect on labor saving and
reduction of women's work in the household. Fuelwood collection is generally
a women's task in Rwanda, and is an increasingly time-consuming household
chore in many parts of the country where forest resources are scant. Convenient
provision of fuelwood in these areas would therefore reduce the burden on
women. Similarly, the Project's research component would aim at providing
households with fuel-saving cooking stoves and benefit women by reducing the
amount of fuelwood they would have to cut and/or collect. The time saved in
both cases would allow women to increase their participation in directly
productive activities. The fuelwood plantation would provide fuel supplies
for the urban poor in Kigali and Butare; if current shortages persist, the
urban poor would bear the greatest share of the burden. The saw timber
plantations would benefit all of Rwanda's population and the wood made available
could be used for a wide variety of purposes. The increased supply of meat
and milk would contribute to improved nutrition, especially in the densely
populated Gishwati area.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS
9.01      During negotiations, the following issueswere discussed:
(a) legalmeasures to designate the plantation areas
(para. 3.10);
(b) Terms of Reference for key Project staff (para. 4.02);
(c) Project Implementation Schedule (para. 4.10); and



- 50 -
(d) Location of the Gishwati Sub-Project headquarters
(para. 4.04).
9.02       During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
issues:
(a) That in the final determination of plantation boundaries
cultivated land would be avoided as far as possible and
that where cultivated land was included in plantations
appropriate compensation would be paid (para. 3.06);
(b) The restructuring of the Waters and Forests Depart-
ment, including the Forestry Division (para. 3.12);
(c) That the terms of reference and conditions of employment
of short-term consultants for studies would be acceptable
to IDA (para. 3.28);
(d) That the Government would establish and maintain a Project
revolving fund (para. 3.34);
(e) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para. 3.35);
(f) Accounting and audit procedures (para. 3.37);
(g) That the Government would submit the terms of reference
and qualifications, terms and conditions of employment
of the Project Coordinator, the Administrative and Financial
Director and his deputy, the construction superintendent, the
sub-project directors and their deputies to IDA for approval
(para. 4.02);
(h) That the Government would exchange views with IDA on future
management arrangements for the Gishwati Forest no
later than December 31, 1985 (para. 4.04);
(i) That the terms of reference and conditions of execution for
studies and trials to be carried out under the Project
would be submitted to IDA for approval (para. 4.08);
(j) That the Government would submit annual work plans to IDA
for approval not later than November 1 of each year and the
first work plan would be finalized upon the completion of
all preparatory activities (para. 4.09); the second work plan
would specifically include proposals for organization of
farmers' associations (para. 4.07);
(k) That the Project Management Committee would submit regular
half-yearly and annual reports on the Projectto the
Minister of Finance and to IDA (para. 4.12);



- 51 -
(1) That the Government would prepare a completion report and
submit it to IDA not later than six months following
the closing date (para. 4.12);
(m) That the Government would, to the extent feasible, charge
farmers the full cost of seedlings (excluding expatriate
management costs) produced by nurseries and would consult
periodically with IDA on the level of charges (para. 6.02);
(n)  That veterinary productswould be sold at costs, and veterinary
treatments rendered at a fee (para. 6.03); and
(o)  That the Government would (a) establish and introduce a pricing
policy for wood products based on production costs for fuel
wood, poles,and saw timber, following consultation with IDA,
and review the issue annually with IDA; and (b) establish and
introduce a policy for the exploitation of the plantations
which would include (i) the establishment of stumpage rates for
existing State plantations not later than December 31, 1982,
and (ii) the design of a proposal for the exploitation of the
plantations to be established under the Project not later than
December 31, 1985.
9.03       Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be that:
(a) legal measures designating the plantation areas and defining
the development objectives for the Gishwati Forest had been
taken (para. 3.11);
(b) a Project Revolving Fund had been established and the minimum
balance of US$100,000 had been paid up by the Goverment (para. 3.34);
(c) a Ministerial Decree establishing the Project Management Committee
had been published (para. 4.01); and
(d) that the Project Coordinator, and the Administrative and Financial
Director had been appointed (para. 4.02).
9.04       It would be a condition of disbursement for the Kigali-Butare sub-
project that the sub-project director and his two deputies had been appointed,
and for the Gishwati sub-project that the sub-project director, the silvi-
culturist and his deputy, and the livestock specialist and his deputy had
been appointed (para. 4.02).
9.05       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$21.0 million to the Government of Rwanda
on standard IDA terms.
May 9, 1980



- 52 -
Schedule 1
RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DHVELOPMEN -PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT SYLVOPASTORAL
Schedule of Key Rwandese Staff                                             Calendrier d'Affectation du
Appointment                                                     Personnel Rwandais Principal
Year/Année
i     2     3      4     5
Project Headquarters - Kigali                                                   SieRe du Projet - Kigali
Project Coordinator                                                             Coordinateur du Projet
(Forestry Engineer Ao or Ai)                 i      1     1      1     1        (Ingénieur forestier Ao or Ai)
Chief Accountant                              1     1     1      1     1        Chef comptable
Kigali/Butare Fuelwood and Pole                                                 Sous-projet plantations bois d'énergie
Sub-Project                                                                     et de construction de Kigali/Butare
A.  Kigali                                                                      A.  Kigali
Deputy Silviculturist (Ao or Ai)           1      1     1      1     1          Silviculteur adjoint (Ao ou Ai)
Forester  (A2)                             1      1     2      2     2          Forestier
Forestry "Moniteur " (A3)                  4      4     6      8     8          Moniteur  forestier
B. Butare                                                                       B.  Butare
Deputy Silviculturist (Ao or AI)           1      1     1      1     1          Silviculteur adjoint (Ao or Al)
Forester  (A2)                              1     1     2      2     2          Forestier  (A2)
Forestry "Moniteur " (A3)                  2      3     4      5     6          Moniteur  forestier. (A3)
Gishwati Sub-Project                                                            Sous-Projet de Gishwati
A.  Forestry Offic.e                                                            A.  Bureau forestier
Deputy Silviculturist (Ao or Ai)           1      1     1      1     1          Silviculteur adjoint (Ao or Ai)
Forester  (A2)                             1      1     2      2     2          Forestier  (A2)
Forestry "Moniteur " (A3)                  4      4     6      8     8          Moniteur  forestier  (A3)
B.  Crop and Livestock Office                                                   B.  Bureau agropastoral
Deputy Veterinarian (Ao)                   1      1     1      1     1          Vétérinaire adjoint (Ao)
1. Technical Support Center                                                     1. Centre d'appui technique
Zootechnician (Ao)                    1      1     1     1      1               Zootechnicien (Ao)
Agronomist or Veterinarian (A2)       1      1     1      1     1               Agronome ou veterinaire (A2)
2. Pastoral Zone                                                                2. Zone pastorale
Agronomist or Veterinarian (A2)       1      1     1     1      1               A ronome ou veterinaire (A2)
Assistant Veterinarian (A3)           -      -     1     2      2               Vétérinaire assistant (A3)
3. Crop and Livestock Intensification                                           3. Intensification agropastoral
Veterinarian (A2)                     1      2     3     3      3               Vétérinaire (A2)
Agronomist (A2)                       -      1     2     3      3               Agronome  (A2)
Agronomist  (A3)                      -      -     -     -    38                Agronome  (A3)
Veterinarian  (A3)                   12    12    14    14    14                 Vétérinaire  (A3)
February 1980                                                                                  février 1980



Tabla 1/Tableau I
jy'0105                                                                                                            Ia     l etllteede FR.)
Phat  PrIartir             1          2          3           4          I        Toa      A.utkttt
Adutoîttratîte luseort for Poreatro                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Support adaititruttf 0.. Sarotoce
01f1cr buildige  astd bousins-650                                                   6,0                                           13.000       5,200             40       Bueu  e   oetat
Equlp-.et es  nabirlas                                  -2400                      4,20         ,20                                8.4 6o 465                    48       iupaoathiue
Inteateltrreios roua                                             3.000       4.900      6.400                                 _ - 14.300  13.585          95       Co1.t de  oritaet  updesle
lob-ltotl                               -              11,900      16,140      7,60 n                             35,640      25,250             71Toaprte
Protrot Co..rdiltiuto  Unît                                                                                                                                               Bureau de Coordioatot du Pro jet
SOflte boildinga eod houtiog                           4,600           12,260        -          -          .           -          22,360       0,945             40       turuttieeet
o                       t~~~~~~~~~~~qulpaeot IAs  orbitlre                      1,200            564,16                               O ,20     -          11.000      6290               57       Equlpeeertetorltulea.I.
eaeed telrîr                                         -               1880       1,880      1.880      1       880 1,8          9,400                 -       -         aa ree  rmsrait
Otherlor ttloealotut                                   1.200            3.250       3.950      3.950      3.950       3.950       20.250      17.370             86       Aur,tuede  otlo,etsple
tub-ltota                              2,0             28,330       890        5,830       200        5830        65,Oi       32,605             52                    Totl  arie
lOel/uesPueltt..d erd Vole Sub-ProI.lro                                                                                                                           otoo    boit t  orsee  detotut.
A.  Kiaall                                                                                                                                                               A. Kipelu
Offlua bu ldioge ed htousîog                          -5,160                       -                                 -           5,160      2,065              40       lureaut.   Iortt
vebiole  _od oquipseo                                1,100           12,590        -          .         2,700        -          16,290     15,475              95       EqoipeeeotneIlojhîtulee
Certograpby                            ~~~~~~            ~     ~ ~        ~    ~~                                                   ~~~1,570  -          ,2  0    ID  caroograpbte
Maseriale                            -              ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~1 150  2,650  3,050  5,830  5,990  19,420  10,11       3        jiiu
tabur                               -               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~3,520  9,500  15,020    12,2680  25,440  26,290  --                Malt d'our
leedlisg.   rera                                                        110         225        365        550         550        1,800         720             40       péPi.inldrr
W.geeand caela-                                                       1,280       1,280      1,710      1,880       1,880        8,030        -                -        Saliaiseteonr,lt
Otgher dlreot  1prai   tt00L~                                         2.075      7,7        7.275    7..275        7.225        37.575    3475                  3       Autrer.   i   de  ooiotat  dirltît
Sob-toisl                     5~~~~ ~       ~~~~~,920  50,255    21,010  28,220    40,915    41,135   165,985      71,280             43
B.  Btlotre                                                                                                                                                                 Butare
Offire buildings eod houeio                          2,760            tir0       2,0          -                                  9,450      3,2801            40       Iaen    tloeet
Veîreaad aipeo-                                                  5,650      1,20         -          -          -            6,650      6,1                95       alretateiue
VCartoerepby                                         1,570             .           -          .          -           -           150            60             10       CatorahI
Matertale                           -                 90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50  1,110  1,670  2,510  2,520    8,390      7,800              93       M _tel_u
Lebor                               -              ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~2,195  5,210  8,330  12,670    14,235  42,640  -       -        Mais d'oeuore
Nusele    f ...edîloce                                -                   5         145        220        330         330        1,100         440             40       P.ptde
Wugae sud eaala-1,160                                                             1,245      1,590      1,625       1,260        7,430       -                 -         alte    traoreot
ebrdirect operenio  o-ot                                          3.380       3.620      3.260      3,760       3.260       18.,330    17.050              93       Atrtotede  ooire,o  dir-tt
lob-total                              4,330           12,630    14,6860    15,520    20,945        212,05        95 760     35,740              37                   Totl   arie
Total Sub-ProJeot                      0.0             4,6Z3,8                43,29      60 ,860    63,740       261,74     10202 4O                                  Tota  du  ospoe
Offite buildioge asd bhossg                           ,75            16,650       -          -           -          -           22,400      8,960             40       trao    oees
oebiolae eud equip.test                2,~~~~~~~~~~:40`0  4,600       500       -          -          2,400        9,900      9,405              95      IEqope.te bor
Oparatiug ouate                        ~~~~~           ~~~~~       ~~~2,400  &J60  4.130  4.130  4.130  4 130     22,JIQ      20.220             93       Coét  de   ooiosas
Oub-totel                   ~~~~~~~~10,550    24,610      4,630      4,130      4,130       6,530       5,60        305                72                    Totl partiel
B.  tend Oe Plat                                                                                                                                                         t. Plisd..    ieto   du eol
Cartogrepby                             2,100             -          -          -           -          -     ~     ~~~~~~ 21001  6,035           85       Crorpi
Soto-orttrey115                                                       .           ,          --- 1.15                                         -                        rqueeatg -.o'piu
ToPogrupbitl   ,ao,y                                26,625             -          -           -          -          -           26,625     23,863              90      Rlnatpgebqe
Teoborl' seoie                                       5 .98P            -5                                                        580        S382               90       Serire tsbiq...
IsO-total                   ~~~~~~~~~40,81      -                                                       4.1          5,320             82Toa  prtr
C.  Boude                                               1524             2385        14,400    14,300    15,600    15,500           99,430      59-,6-60=          60   C. Runres
0.  Foreattw                                                                                                                                                             B. Vîletfuetr
Off or buildisga etd booeiog                          -              13,260      5,600        -                                  800        75540                      Bouse lgwsr
Vehiclei  aqoplent                                   1,200            560        1,8000        31        '1400      -           1,26       11,170              95       Oup.steo'iue
Matariels                           -                 ~~~       ~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~       ~~65  825  1,.131  1,205  1,200  4,975  4,635  93   Mtéiu
Lebor                               -                ~~~~     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~505  9,110    18,620    28,360    36,395  93,000  .    -        nio.doauo
Buars    u .. eedîso   for sel                  -                             35          20        140        200           525        210             40       Ppinde
Oegs.  an  slai                                       -               1,370      1,370       l,80i      1,970      1,970         6, 460       .                -        stile  laeereo     taooo
QObar dirasoprci8otî                                 1,100            4.610      5.210      5.960    5.,960        5,960       27-200      25 760             93       Autres toêt  de Ponoi...      es  trtt
Sub-total                              2,4010          25,460    23210    2780           40,035    46,305        165,300    49,320               50                   Totlpate
tend deuolrpuast Oortrtue                                              ,10    24,775    26,510         16,165     19,400       86,580       4,100              S          Meetelsranoue
0O1ef     sldsefs   ottn                                             272,20    10,30o       7,745       7,660      3,175       6220        26,080             40       Orestlgiet
pebiolea sed eqopnes                                 3,600           12,050      1,325       1,7        4,845      8,320        32,180     27,340             85        iqopant  et vCbîoulee
Porrbuae urostria                   -               ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~         ~     ~     ~~~~ ~ ~~-  -  3:0,050  .  300  3,350  1,180  35   Aoba.t du b6tatl'
Cred,t 0ud                                            -2,000                     2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000        10,000       .                         FZpnd  de orddit
WRevrl1otsg  lutt  for- trsr  prsdsrst.                               4,500      2,000        -          -          -           11.500     10,925             95       Pnedrtlattpul,pouieoJr
Weeead  lsiarle                                    -                ,050      4,295      4,900      5,000       5,040       21.325        -                -        Salirsatreasrti
Onite  direct opertigiuete ......                                     9.150     10,745    11.846       12.390     13.060       37,185      5091               89.      butreerolt  de fansttsne.as  dirette
lob-soOel                              3,600           58,660    66,640    58,025    48,100         51,345       286.360   120,550               42                   Tisa  partiel
Trte1 lsb-Projeos                     23105           132,615   108,860   104,335   107,865   119,600            646,480   303,985               47                   Total du Sune-prleJt
Tatbnitel Aeeoaueste ed Csaul-teut   s.tor                                                                                                                                elaat tii.u    t rtusst  de aervtc..
Teobeirel ..eelet.sce                               15,300           66,000    48.000    31,000    31,000    21,000           286.300   196,083                95      Aeeiateare  terboiqu
Casiesteta a.       oe                                                          ,J9        ,JJ11J200    18,640                                                95       Preeteiret  de  -arie..
lob-tstel            15,300           48,000    33.600      94,600    31.208       31,88       21.56       200,23              95                    Total partiel
Studita. arii total
tnergy eaude                      -                -        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~    ~       ~ ~       ~~~2,150  3,225~  1075,  -l  6.450  2,580O  40  Be...s  uti- ert
Cbhprol triai,-                                                                  2,15       322         3,225      2l.0 0,50                4,30              40       BaE..la de  Itabas de bo..
l.rrood tsabinjeupun                                                             1,075      2,150       1,075       -           4390        1,220             40         uendeOaîaue
Tiel  trC.1-                                                          -         1,825      1,675       1, 025     1,075        4,300       1,720             40       B.ai. dlaee.ua.
roueprujet ptaperettos-                                                                 2.200   5J490          3.400       U.eQ20       6.500             30       Prparatis  de  irr.rjt
00b-totl.1-                                                        6,5        11,675    1l,85B       8,829        36,8000    1,2                 3Toa                         ate
Maeîtorlea ed treluetion. ad Tralirabnnteeutiu   tfsmra
Maattrrteg   d aol1lo                                                  ,025      1,025      2,150       2,150      2,150         6,600      4,300             50       Suint etIol ane
Psreenry                                  -          .           -         1,~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~     ~         ~      ~      ~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~560  1,500  3,000  -  -pr.ei
daoeeaw                        -                -          ~~~~     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~500  1,000O  1,000  1,000  3,500  --A                   s
Piaaeete1 dieripllssr                              -                             00      1,008      1,088       1,086        3,500        -                -           pnes
-         -        ~~~~~~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~1.00  ,j,  3.300  3.380  ..LflQ 9.00  9 550
006-tutel                 -              ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~    ~~1,025  2,0205  4,5 5,650  3,630    1860       13602
Tstl1 b.eesoa.a                      103,703          2778,28    231r823   216,180    223,213   216.525   1,27,9.329    700,283                  56                   Total toutl. da be..
Phyetcal                                                -48,8                     6.015    60.802 - 602,62    62,928            219,330    166,09                8        B4ea.  da   Iueatttt
Votre                                                 4Jj             6j,515    0620   11                7028 L05   209,715     668.         lLlIa                       ldaue.e  due ro pi,
labtotel                    9,488         113,808    1~~~~~~~      ~       ~ ~~~~~.8.5'1,73    212,467   26,25 87665    366,575                            Tuelpatiell
TOTA  POMOl    CO!  M2                       113,163          383,690   341,160    373r18       437,922   490,166   2,167,46>   l/gl780                  so                    88  TUAI. W itin
Peb-ley 1980                                                                                                                                                                              fevrtut 1981



Table/Tableau 2
RWANDA
INTW1EETED FORESTRY AIID LIVESTOCX DEVELOPhl21T PROJECT
PROJgT DE DOVELOPPUENT SYLVOPASTORAL
Preparatory Phase - Detailed  Projeet Coats nd Financtas
Phase préparatoire.  CoGts détaillés du Projet et financaemt
A.  Cartograpby                Local         Foreign               Total       IDA        Covernment   A.  Cartographie
En monnaie   En devises              Total       IDA       Gouvernement
locale         (US$)
1. Gishati                                                                                            1.  Gish-ati
Field work               6,030             670   (10%)    6,700         -               -              Travaux sur le terrain
Aerotriangulation          -            6,500  (100%)    6,500          -               -              Aérotriangulation
Restitution              1,890             210   (10%)    2,100         -               -              Restitution
Map dasign               3,690             410   (10%)    4,100         -               -              Dessin carte
Infra-red aerial                                                                                       Photographie aérienne-
photography              -           15,000  (100%)   15,000          -               -                infra-rouge
Orthophotoplan                                                                                         Orthophotoplan
(1/20,000)               -           42,250  (100)   42,250          -              -                   (1/20,000)
lob-total           11,610          65040              76 ,650    76.650            -                 Total partiel
2. Kigali/Butare                                                                                      2.  Kigali/Butare
Field work              31,500          3,500   (10%)   35,000          -               -              Travaux sur le terrain
Restitution             10,800          1,200   (10%)   12,000          -               -              Restitution
Map design              11.700          1,300   (10%)   13,000          -               -              Dessin carte
Sub-total           54000 !Vb3o                        60,000                                         Total partiel
6561           71,040   (52%)  136,650   1650-
B.  Vehicles                                                                                            B.  Véhicules
P-rchase price                                                                                          Prix cd'achat (HT)
(ta. fres)                  -          115,000  (100%)  115,000          -               -
Operating costs             9.000          36.000   (80%)   45,000          -           45,000          Coûts de fonctionnemnt
Sub-total                 9.000        151,000   (94%)                   -           45.000             Total partiel
C.  Soci-sconomic                                                                                       C.  gnoute  uocio-éconoioue  -
survey  - Cishwsti                                                                                      Gishoati
12,000            -               12,000    12,000
D.  Infrastructures                                                                                     D.  Infrastructures
1. Start office                                                                                         1. Démarrage conutruction du
building - Kigali       30,000         20,000   (40Z)   50,000          -               -               bureau de Kigali
2. Staff housing                                                                                        2. Construction du bureau et des
sd office building                                                                                      maisons du personnel à Butare
Butare                  18,000         12,000   (40%)   30,000          -
3. Staff housing and                                                                                    3. Construction du bureau et des
office building -                                                                                       maisons du personnel à
Gish-ati                36,000         24,000   (40%)   60,000                                          Gishwati
4. Roads and access                                                                                     4. Routes et maillage - Gishwati
tracks - Gishoati
- minor repairo on                                                                                      - Réparations mineures sur les
east-iest roade        1,760          2,640   (60%)    4,400          -               -                 routes Est-Ouest
-Major repaire on                                                                                       - Réparations permanentes sut
eaast-west roads                                                                                        les routes Est-Ouest
Fixed couts                                           45,160                                            Coûts fixes
Pavemnt (50%)1/                                      14,950                                             Chaussée (502) 1/
Bridges (50%) i/                                     22,920                                             Ponts (50%)   1/
Drainage (50%) l/                                    44,400                                             Drainage (501) 1/
50,970         76,460    (60%) 127,430
Grid of access tracks                                                                                   Maillage de layons y
including expatriate topographers                                                                       compris les coûts des
(for topographical,                                                                                       topographes expatriés
pedological aod                                                                                           pour 1es travaux
hydrogeological                                                                                           pédologiques et hydro-
survey work)         28.940         260,460   (90%)  289.400                                              géologiques)
Sub-total         159,670         391.560   (71%)  551 230   795.350            55.880
E.  Technical Assistance                                                                                E.technique
developuant                                                                                      Aménagiste/chef d'équipe
planner/team leader                                                                                     (9 mois)
(9 m,nths)                                               105,000
Infrastructure                                                                                          Chef de travaux (8 mois)
specialist (8 mas.)                                       61,000
Pedologiet (3 mos)                                        32,500                                        Pédologue (3 mois)
Hydrogeologist                                            32,500                                        fydrogéologue (3 mois)
(3 mos)
Sub-total           23,100         207,900   (90%)  231.000   231.000                                  Total partiel
Total               278.380                   (75%) 00              0           1Total
1/  50% of these vorks will ba oospleted in prsparatsry phase, th  rtest during project implemntati-o.
50% de ces travaux seront achevés pendant la phase préparatoire, le reste pendant l'exécution du projet.



- 55 -                      Table/Tableau 3
RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT SYLVOPASTORAL
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                  Calendrier Estimatif des Décaissements
IDA Fiscal Year             Cumulative Disbursements              Année fiscale de
and Quarter                  at End of Quarter                 1'IDA et trimestre
Décaissements cumulés en
fin de trimestre
PPF                         (US$ million)
1981  -  September 30, 1980                  0.3                 1981  -  30 septembre 1980
December 31, 1980                  0.9                           31 decembre 1980
Credit
1981  -  March 31, 1981/a                    1.2                 1981  -  31 mars 1981/a
June 30, 1981                      1.5                           30 juin 1981
1982  -  September 30, 1981                  1.8                 1982  -  30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981                  2.3                           31 décembre 1981
March 31, 1982                      2.8                          31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982                      3.6                           30 juin 1982
1983  -  September 30, 1982                  4.4                 1983  -  30 septembre 1982
December 31, 1982                  5.2                           31 décembre 1982
March 31, 1983                     6.2                           31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983                      7.2                           30 juin 1983
1984  -  September 30, 1983                  8.2                 1984  -  30 septembre 1983
December 31, 1983                  9.2                           31 décembre 1983
March 31, 1984                    10.2                           31 mars 1984
June 30, 1984                     11.2                           30 juin 1984
1985  -  September 30, 1984                 12.2                 1985  -  30 septembre 1984
December 31, 1984                 13.2                           31 décembre 1984
March 31, 1985                    14.2                           31 mars 1985
June 30, 1985                     15.2                           30 juin 1985
1986  -  September 30, 1985                 16.2                 1986  -  30 septembre 1985
December 31, 1985                 17.2                           31 décembre 1985
March 31, 1986/b                  18.4                           31 mars 1986/b
June 30, 1986                     19.6                           30 juin 1986
1987  -  September 30, 1986/c               21.0                 1987  -  30 septembre 1986/c
/a  Expected date of effectiveness                    /a  Date prévue de mise en vigueur
November 30, 1980                                     le 30  novembre 1980
/h  Expected date of coimpletion                      /b  Date prévue pour l'achèvement du
March 31, 1986                                        Projet, le 31 mars, 1986
/c  Expected closing date                             /c  Date de cl8ture prévue pour le
30 September,1986.                                    30 septembre 1986
May 1980                                              Mai 1980



-                          N
t                          I
-   b bat>n  nnna&nn
tas   o        -   -  N  NU                        oNU    N                       O  N  t4  N  N   N          'J    -a  N  -   t  O   zgn,nn           n
*   N  N  NN    *   UN    N  N  N  ta  N   *  N  »  N   N  N  t  -  ta  'J  'O  O   b  4  N  N  O   nonna                                n
*0 0000 00000000000000000 000000 O gnnng g
g g g0      -
non;    nc
- - - a a N
4t>b'J'J'J 'J ta ta US 'J 'J NU ta SU 'J 'J 'J 'J ta SU ta 40 O t> t> 0' O- 'J on n
ta t 'J * t t> 4 'J 'J *0 b t> ta 'J 'J 0 t U4 'J 'J N C ta C g t> O b 'O '-n a ni'.--'
000000*00000 O 000  00*00000000 00000 O
O Q O O C 0 O N a a a a a 4 ta t> a. O (j 'J c c. b t> nu t> C> b  a 4 b 'J -
a- a t>ntt>n--.n.On
a n - n -O
O O O * O 0 O 4 O a- b 4 b 'J ta O'J0t4.O'Jt>4N4'Jt>t>'J'J'J4-n
O Ct> OC O O OC 0* g o O O O O O C O O O O 0 O 0 0 O 0 O 0 0 O O 0 n.n,OnCO
a           *  o  Q  4  Q  nnnn.l.- n o
0 *0 *0 0 O 0 0 0 o o 0 c c 4 'O 4 4 Q 4 Q Q Q O 4 O O O Qni'J.O*n.nn.n[nn
0   0  0  O  O  -  0   O  C  0  O   C   0  O   O .4'J'J'J'J'JnJ'J'J'J'J'J   'J  'J  ni  n.  t>  LA  b  a  n n n n4 n n
0   0  C  oc    s  0   c  0*    0  c   c  O   o  t>  o  O  O  O   Oc   O   *0    C  C  t>  t>  O  o  t>  *  t>  t>
O                                                                                                                                                   on.  n
0                                                                                                                                -  -  n  -         nnn
*      t>  o  o  o  t>  o  o   o  o  *  o             o  o   o  o  o  O  O  C  C  *   O  0   O  O   *  0  O  0   n.  *  C  Q  t.
* - C O 0 * 0 0* OO g 0 O O 0 c 0 0 O 0 O OC *00 c t>0 O 0 O 'J n.
o      0  0  0  *  O  0*    0*                O   0   O  O   O  O  O  O  O  O  OC    O  O   0  0  0  O  0   0  0  C  0  O  O                          n  n
N              n.                      N                                                                                                                      M
a           .             t>                                                                                                                                            g
NNQ'JN   ni 'J N N N (4 N                                                                                                                                     g
O Onibt>*'J0 * 4 ta 'J b (jat>'Jn O Q 0nO- c(a'J P-O
i
a                                                                                                                                                           a
-                  -  -                        -  -  -                        -  -  -
'-j  O  t>  nj    t>  t>  Q  b   N             t>  t>  O  'J  'J              t>  t>  C  ni  'J
ta  C>  O  *  Q  'J  t>  S  0  O   a  a  N  M   -  O   O  O  *  *   Q  n-n  n   0  O  O   O  O  O  O  Q                                             t>     n
o  o   O  c  o  o  C                                        n
OC  * t> O O C O                                   O 0*  0*  * *                                                       n
ogoOg                                          S                                                                n
n            o  *  o  n  o  0*    0  O   0  O  O  O   0                 0   0      o  o   ta  o  o  0   O          0  0   O  t  O  O                       n
('p
O'                             4  Q  b         k)
'J  O   O  'J  'J  C>  'J  ta  *  t>  ns  t>  t  -  -   O   O  Ct>   N  (3  -   n  *   *  O   O  O  o  O   O                n nnnnnnn.                'n
O  C  O  O  C  O  Q   *  O   O  O  O   O  0  O  O  O   O  O                   o  O  O  o  Q  Q  t>  *  o  o    o   o              n n O n -n n n             o
g        o        o  c  *  o  o  o    o   t>    n  n n-n "n
0*    O  O  0  0  O  O   o  O  O   O  *  O  0  O   O  O                   O                                                    n..   n                    R
t>  4  'J  ''          (J  n'onNn-'            n..
'J  'J  ta  a          O   4  O  N  a   O  ta  O  O'  N
* * * O O 40 J 'J 0 o a t> 'J ta t>t> N'J3a O O O o o 0 o o o o o
O O O t> t> t> -a 'J 'C * * 'J 'J t> * g t t> o o-o o o o * o o o t> t> t> t> t> n.n,nn>
t> t> O c o o 0 o o o o o t>  o o o * * o * o c 0 o 0 o  *  o
'J  N   N  N   N                                                                 non
- C 4 O N - 4 ta 'J b O b 'j t>
0* O O ta t> O t> ta ta ta ta S ta S W N N N ta b t> O t> ni t>
t> t>  t>   g 3 O 3 3   gW4..4c    (MtO ta  nnnn.g
0*000 * *0000    O                                                   *000000oooC onno
'J  b  t>      t>   je-aS    N   N  NU    (O  N    -  -   -                                                                                  ('tn
NWCCU    N N N                                 * t> 0*45  'J t (j a <4» - *45  'J t ta  N N -
nj'Jrjtj (J (J PJ'J'J'J'O'JOt'J'J'J'JN'J  ta 4 PJ 4 ' * Q 'J                                                    -
O t> O' O 4 O * bt>tna*an. b O t>'Jt>aa'JGJt>'J*0(-'t>t> b b O
C   j  O       O  n  ni  ta  t  'J  O   t>  'J  t>  nJ  t   'J  'J  ni  ta  n  N  ta  O  'J  n.    W  (J  niN    -   b    'J               an
o   o  o  o  c  o  c  c  o   o  o   o  o   o  *0       o  o  o   o  o  o  *   o   o  O  O   *  *0    O  C  C  o                                n                         n
-   n.  -                      *   a  'J          (J  C  t>  t   ta  t>  b   N  N  b  b  N  (J  -
Q Q N 4 a                  4t>'Jaa                 O 4 a 'J 'J b 0 N ta 'J t> Ut>  a ta ni On b'J'J0"'"
'n  *  O  (J   O  t>  t  Q   b        b       -   -   *0*    ta  'J  'J  t>b   *0    N  Ct>   'J  t>  'J
o * O * O O O * 4 'J - C n 'Jt>0t>Wtacc-a*NoC4wt4a O ta    -
ooo*occooo  oooooàà660cooaoo**oooo  n
n.'-



a i                    >,
<   <  O  . M 1 X~~~~B 
fl~~~~~~~~~~~ n      o|eE|ÆasSi    |      |   
g~~~~~~~~~~~~     I           <'isO m        Dt 
;   æ  2;= æ Il.  --s   -|  
W    it   >   ~   |  :;-   F  > eF > ç |»O e  >r
, > ,4 b çO u _< a d> , 
æa  a      S1-ID t~~ tt B  >    °r
I                            I ,!.~<OL   ~.    
Bf L>s->H° g- 1 
[r ssqI  = .@L>E ...    
.    I U'                      r     






RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTRUE
AND LIVESTOCK
Mlnitar
SF retaoy Gmneral
-For;t  Poicyl SectionPROJECT MANAGEMENT
P Ac - Topograohical Secto.                                                                         COMMITTEE
- Acouonting Smctbon            _____________________________
-Stdi.,s cion       
PROJECT COORDINATOR
l   FORESTRY GROUP OF RWANDA         -                                                                    puratimnmd FmtPEEU
F                                                            _           Infr truc Uf et °ff'"        r--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --   GISENYI PREPECTURE
! _    KIGALI/BUTARE SUB-PROJECT                                                                                                                                     Tochnical coorrinttbn
(Fudwoo-d anr Pol«)                                                                             (Fontstr       T Crop and Livanock)                       o atuPri                             Crp ndL
-Dir Mor'r office
-Diractor'~ Off".e                                                                                     -S crmtai.1                                          - Su pnf ct 
-S cryteri t                                                                                           -Accounting Stetion             _____                -Pf cmture ApronominO
- Accunting Smcio.ntSWrr                                                                               -Swto                                                - Pfvctun Veteri. rbn
Topogmphical St.nlbr.                                                                                -Workchop                                             -FRG P0  i    Dricto
-ADB Pnojetc Din ctor
Aaaocaxron   PrOCoft        ProjauD t
T- T_  jrWct Dié ctc,
Aff..«atio' Offla    Afrl  b   fic                                          tétg                                                                                   ins
Kigali              Buta'.                                             LPb                                                                                    fivecr
Director', Office t   Diecto,rB Officrat 
Secrettobt           StgM.tairt_.r                                                                                                               
-State Pl .tratios  -State Pi.nt.tionsI.                                 
-Cantrd1 N-aery'    -Centr1 Nur. y_..                                                           ff                                                                                    IFBWDnv  petn
-Rurd Woodiots  -Rur l. Woodiot            ot.nrnr                             suhr   lrr                                P oe  eeomn                                                F.ming I.te..ificatimn 
l         l l      Ranch D   l l            num».dy                           Crop .d Livtock
| Suppn i>ntr | g  and      |                  
|~~~~~~~~. ..  Etnion                 _           
I~~~~~~~~~~ng RIlb  FK,tE E[
i    P nor  I i    FGiiV         AB                                                                     |
|  Arsociations  g ff  Proifict  | |                       WPro  Bwkc- 2130



RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Year                             1                         2                          3                          4                      _
1980            1981                       1982                       1983                      1984                       1985                1986
1     2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1     2      3      4      1     2      3     4      1      2      3     4       1     2
Negotiations 
Effectivenes                                                                                                                                                                                 -if
Completion                                                                                                                                                                              March 1986j 
Closing                                                                                                                                                                                         Speber
PROJECT PREPARATORY PHASE
PROJECT STAFFING
Expatriate Personnel Recruitment
National Personnel Appointment                    m _                                      a m _    _  _
AF FORESTAT ION
Plantations
Kigali Fuelwood and Polo (ha)                                          30                         70                       -00                         Iw                         5
200                       400                        600                        900                       900
Butare Fuelwood and Pole (ha> _
200                ~~~~~4006080
Gishwati Sawtimber (ha)                                                  I                        200        =     =        40         =      =        60         _     =         8C         = --
Pilot Rural Woodlots (ha)                                                5                                                                                I                          I
Kigali and Butare                                   ~~~ ~~~~50                  110                       160                        240                        240
Kigali and 8utare                                                                                  II
G ishwati                                                                               =         15         =     =         3b0                        60                        120
CROP AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT-GISHWATI                                                           1                                                        I
Pasture Establ ishment
il              1 00                      100                        100
Technical Support Center (ha)                                                     -      -                             0 *             _          W- - -   -   O -     I12 10 |1800
Pastoral Zone - Gishwati (ha)                                            0          _      7  P _         7     r  _                   _                          _                                 _
HOUSING AND BUILDINGS -%                                  1      _        6
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                     70                        Io                         5
STUDIES AND TRIALS                                                      T
Energy Needs                                                                                                   __   _                                                                     |-
Charcoal Making-                                                                                       -      -      -     - I-          -     -      -I-          -     -      -      -       -
Improved Cooking Equipment                                                                                                                                                                                              =  |  =   -  -   9
Applied Research-                                                                                -     -      -      -     -g--                              -     --                   -
TRAINING                                                   _                                      - _   -    _  -   -                     _ -   -                    _ - I                      _ -                    l
February 20, 1980                                                                                                                                                                  Worid Bank   21401



- 60-
Chart/Dliatra.e  III
RWANDA
INTEGRATED FOIESTRY ANO LIVESTOCK DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
.laATelY  ATVITIES
lmpfmlutatioo Solu
|                           19bD                                    " _                    lsa1         "198
RESPONSIB,LITIES
A GISHWATI SUBPROJECT
1    WORKTOBEDONE
1A   CARTOGRAPHY
CEmc,,*p Plepierot0F                                              _ued C                                                                                                                            FovhtOdnr (R
Vethicl         b Pru,bf  1c Proiap  2) _2/                                                                                                                                                         Fl
F,.Id W.,k                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CirfoqriPlr Office
FreldWork                                                         _CarfogriEfl Office
Aoce,,ieog,Ieiaon (P )CnorvtO is>
*                                     Cartrepfl                                                                                                    _ 
1B.  PHOTOGRAPHY (1/200)0                                                                                                                                                                          IGN
IR Fle. CO lo.
fC   ORTHOPHOTOPLAN
>C,oooî E.ecce
{Crol d out in EurowM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,srs v0 0u ,
2    SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY                                                                                                                                                                         0--Sr'sff  f         d Ft
Simple O0115fio f n OC ,n, 50, LArfîc_                                                                                                                                                     LovA Aufflrîfer. et *n Tscfrn,piI
F,eId Soeo-fie
fiefs Anult ,s1I                                                                                                                                                                               sia
3    PRELIMINARY INFRASTRUCTURES                                                                                                            _ip-nrtnt ofWete7ad Fo-eeo
flcoo>Off,ceR nfce Sufiprolr                                 .....                                           _    __f 
Irlplaeornrfifor cf Acceunfirra Scscerr_
Labo, H.ri/ for Fo.ld WfiorkUndO tet.opm m PI...
f-ifej  Repaire on Esef..... -We OR Rm0s.0e... 
- LAND DEVELOPMENT PLAN                                                                                                                                                                               0f 0o 0 W, SW wlt err Fore.f-
*    Metpof Siopes_                                                                                                                                                                                  Teopoosi ARisîsfce /F,rrr 1
G*rdof AeD T-ek- nffhe Ar.. (FF.Id W.rk_
Htirrc-Orgar   nosfr cf PorWkr  Teerr (Lociefs>)
Sperrir. cf Croes-Rrde e. Sirfof cf Bcdern Zcees/Toporsprcpt                                   
* Suryyocf No,crelCocondnon                                                                                                                                                                     dt
F#bcloar                                                                                                                                                                                    UmV0  f Bunm1
Clim#oloaV ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ... ....... .... ..... .......... ....... ..... ...
Forntrv Imtntforn                                                                                                   ..................  .....................   ....... ......
Ffrcfoirrfrrefafc oc Or   lofceîer -IR FeN CDbr
elle Simple CoN ecelon mnd Freld Chtick
Dtwnmtntec cf 09515, îd Fomtnr
*    Firel R incrng cf Lind Seseoprrmo Rer                                                                                                                    ........c c,                                 . of LIs W tn F-
8,0 Octd Treina                                                                                                                                                                             ..  Firm/Tnhnrical AFsiisfar
Fi~~~~~~~~:l~~~~~~~dMRI:gT,m~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MNAR
S.   PLAN OF MANAGEMENT
Soa-n 0f Prlniple
l 1ASSIGNMENTOFVEHICLES
MiGtion LodeAe                                                 ....
Sr0oad Tt<martPhY ICioff I    ::         :::::    ::                                ......._         ......
SwmEDdomcu-'                                                                                                           ...........           ........ t....... .... r. |-
111  TECHNICALASSISTANCE                                                                   
TtcDhicccrr/ Suttor  i>_
cIndetuar                                                                    -.-rntndn                                                            -          -          -     
SWologist _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... ......... ..... ..........
B.  KIGALI-BUTARE SUBPROJECT                                                                                            
C.  on,*hv_                                                                                   ... J*...... ........
Fcc.rpr ISdW                                                                                                      4       -     
2 Infhanructun ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........ll  .......... ....... ....... .....  >
C       TECHNNICAL ASSISTANCERECUITMENT
Ml Advntme                
MicorLeadertiom
8Sdo-roIef                                                                   -          -.-
N-to O.t  nTt
RtW OBirr no DutV _ilor



-61-
RWANDA
INTEGRATED FORESTRY AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Materials Available in the Technical Annexes
1. Proposed Forestry Developments - Technical Description
2. Proposed Forestry Developments - Project Costa
Gishwati Sub-Project
3. Road Component
Appendices:
I. Cost of Bridges
Il. Cost of Culverts Under Road
III.  Cost of Vehicles
IV. Detailed Breakdown of Topographic Grid Construction Costs
V. Reconnaissance of Existing Tracks, Condition of Drainage
Facilities and Bridges
4. Livestock Component
Tables:
1. Herd Projection (1,000 head)
2. Investmnent Costs
3. Operating Costs
4. Land Development and Infrastructure
5. Construction Schedule for Buildings
6. Equipment Purchase Schedule
7. Schedule of Staff Appointment
8. General Implementation Schedule
9. Unit Price Estimate
Appendix: The Present Production System
Tables:
1. Basic Data
2. Cropping Pattern
3. Farm Model IA (Before Project)
4.  Present Cattie H-erd Composition and Technical
Coefficients



ln                           M
S~~~ X                                                                                                         - 1k};t,l  `rFMti       
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f -.t  \Dl eg                           à                  'Y i  iJ 2           41 sl8M
i > :  3       -     \     ->               -      - ' l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -!          Se'b- 
> I>o    2 1  k  < >/   ' t I   g  CE    g g  z         X                     '),~~~~~~~~~r g 
c9            V,  ----4                                 ', >                                  !      -
>>N.  ~                            __ r-t r-o r      s                   ï r- n  >  
el~~~~~~~~~5I
o- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                             .






R W A N D A
INTEGRATED  FORESTRY  AND  LIVESTOCK                                                                                                                            JU,ANtAtçbq
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                         .                G  A  N  D
PROJET DE OFVEZOPPFMeNT SYIVOPASTORAL A
Gishwoti Forest Resorve
foreserv eF  re de Gisewhi kut,                                                                                                                                    T  A  N  Z A  N I     A
Gishwati Sub-project boundary                         REPUBLI
f mtee Q Suos-pro7et Giehwi                           R       L     0NyF
Zone of livestock developmret                              ZAiRE
Zonre de deve/o pemonat pusio*`f
* ~FuelWood ond Pole Plcntotïons
*    PIitotiot,,s de Pois de Feu e/de Service
_____Mdei roods
routes princWies,
`       Rivières                                                                                        kOro     :                   BjY U-             M      B    A                 i
_   _   Prefecture tbsungies                                                                N      E  R  I
- Litmites de prefcr/
_.______ Internotioesl bounderies                                       .,\ 
Ftro7idières iidetrebno/inues   tf                                                                       a)Xu)                                ,---a,t                               j
$    / ) \ G^~~~N Y I.<<                                                                    
1   A IK F                                                        
ZAIRE                            K;bu
AJ LS /  X/0  0                       0  J G   F} ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~R A M A                                           Kib.ng A0                                   S
Kobd        rg                                                     Gikongorv                                                      
I L C   Y       A N  G                        U                              G U                                                     }  U |T A   R  E  S5 U D A N  ETHIOPIV
i   r \ .  A    d   V s                                                                               ¢ éLtbL»tu r                    i~~~~~~~~~~ <i N
J~ut                  BURUNDI   ~~~~~~~EPBî    -  GND  Oi
"    Ru9(3orat,,a             .A          _ } - '                                                                    O jABR U                             N y A
KILOMETERS 0    10     20      30     40      50                                                                                                                                 i i       i/-,,, s.
v \ \ A/ g ) tw' tivç                                                                                                           K;4RWANtD        ~
NIILES 0        10          20         30        \                                                -    - I                                 
e\                                                   -J N                                                             4,RUOSDI                          i NzlvniAN I
d.tersRmn zerror  bch, O Tdhd h é mahn ua Sz h   T                                                                               .                                  T A N Z A N ,nI
b~ md mUl shRwm on N/1s5 Dnap dn noT ANA/r                                                                                          ZAmI Ane yd d Qf the wnrd Sanh and ts     J:



