CREDIT NUMBER 1039 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      7, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1039 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             7 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to The Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower dated May 16, 1980, the Association
granted an advance to the Borrower of $1,000,000 to assist in the
financing of the preparation of the Project;
(C) pursuant to the terms of such advance the amount thereof
is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Account" means the Account referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Kigali and Butare Sub-project" means the Sub-project
referred to in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(c) "Gishwati Sub-project" means the Sub-project referred to
in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
establish, maintain and manage an account (the Project Account) in
the Banque Nationale du Rwanda, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall use the amounts on deposit in the
Project Account only to make payments for expenditures under the
Project which are eligible to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
(d) The Borrower shall maintain in the Project Account, at
all times, funds equivalent to $400,000, provided, however, that,
if such level of funds is adjusted by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, the ratio of the funds further
deposited by the Association, in accordance to this Section,
and by the Borrower, in accordance to Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, shall be 3 to 1.
(e) The Association shall: (i) promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Project Account an initial amount in the


﻿- 3 -
currency of the Borrower not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; and
(ii) at the request of the Project Coordinator and the Adminis-
trative and Financial Director, further withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Project Account such amounts as shall
be required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made out of
the Project Account for expenditures for the Project eligible
for financing under the Development Credit Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment out of the Project Account such documents
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(g) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Project Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit Account;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to
paragraph (f) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association and prior to any further deposit in
the Project Account by the Association, deposit in the Project
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(h) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (e) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Project Account shall be
made when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made under paragraph (a) of this Section or
when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have
reached the equivalent of $20,700,000, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit shall follow
procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(i) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procarement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date siall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1990, and ending
March 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, forestry, agricultural, animal husbandry and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation on its obligations under para-
graph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) deposit in
the Project Account an initial amount of $100,000 equivalent;
(ii) not later than March 31 of each year, until and including
the year in which the Project is completed, deposit an amount
equivalent to such portion of the expenditures to be made under


﻿- 5 -
Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Table 1 of Schedule 1 of this Agree-
ment, during the forthcoming fiscal year, as shall not be reim-
bursable from the Credit Account, in accordance with the dis-
bursement percentages set forth in such Categories; and (iii) each
three month period, deposit an amount equivalent to such portion
of the expenditures to be made under Category 1 of Table 1 of
Schedule 1 of this Agreement, during the forthcoming fiscal year,
as shall not be reimbursable from the Credit Account, in accor-
dance with the disbursement percentage set forth in such Category.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain within its Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock a
Project Management Committee, which shall supervise the execution
of the Project and which will include the Minister of Agriculture
and Livestock or his delegate, the Project Coordinator, the
Administrative and Financial Director and the Directors for Parts
B and C of the Project and their Deputies. Such Committee shall
delegate (a) its responsibility for the overall execution of the
Project to the Project Coordinator; and (b) its responsibility for
the day-to-day execution of the Project to the Directors for Parts
B and C of the Project, concerning the Kigali and Butare Sub-
project and the Gishwati Sub-project, respectively.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ:
(a) inter alia, (i) a Project Coordinator;
(ii) an Administrative and Financial Director and
his Deputy;
(iii) a Construction Superintendent;
(iv)   a Director for Part B of the Project and his
Deputies; and
(v) a Director for Part C of the Project and his
Deputies;
each of whom shall meet such qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) as
shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) Consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. The terms of reference and conditions for exe-
cution for each of the studie3 and trials to be carried out under
Part E of the Project shall require the concurrence of the Asso-
ciation before the start of each such study or trial.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; (iii) provide the Associati"n
during the Project implementation period: (A) with semiannual
reports on the progress in the carrying out of the Project; and
(B) not later than three months after the end of each fiscal year,
with an annual report on the progress in the carrying out of the
Project, all such reports to be of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request; and (iv) furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 7 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project; and (b) pay to farmers an appro-
priate compensation for the acquisition of the rights in respect
of cultivated land for purposes of establishing plantations under
Parts B and C of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall (a) as soon as possible, but
no later than December 31, 1985, or such later date as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, implement the reorganization of its
Waters and Forests Department, including its Forestry Division;
and (b) not later than December 31, 1985, exchange views with
the Association on the future management arrangements for the
Gishwati Forest under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.09. Prior to October 1 of each year commencing in
1980, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association
for its approval a detailed work plan for the Project for the
ensuing fiscal year.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) charge and collect from the farmers participating in
Part C of the Project an appropriate fee for any veterinary
service or product provided under the Project to any livestock of
such farmer or his family; and


﻿-8-
(b) ensure that the supply of veterinary materials, drugs
and medicines required for purposes of paragraph (a) of this
Section is sufficient at all times and, for this purpose, shall
maintain a revolving fund for their purchase, into which revenue
from the sales of such items and any additional advances of funds
required to cover any deficit, including foreign exchange, shall
be deposited as necessary.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Categories 1 and 2 (b) of the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure; and
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) have the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01
(a) of this Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
any event not later than six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report on such audit by such audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the


﻿9
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such separate account, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause    the infrastructures
under Parts A and C and the plantations and rural woodlots under
Parts B and C of the Project to be operated under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in ddequate numbers, and shall cause their respective build-
ings, equipment, plantations, roads and other facilities to be
adequately maintained, and the necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, forestry, agricultural, animal husbandry and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 4.04. Unless otherwise agreed with the Association,
the Borrower shall: (i) sell, against payment in cash or in kind,
the seedlings produced by the nurseries established under Parts B
and C of the Project at prices adequate to recover the full
production cost of such seedlings (excluding expatriate management
costs), subject to ensuring adequate incentives to farmers for
tree planting; and (ii) consult periodically with the Association
on the levels of such prices and on the adequacy of such
incentives.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) (i) before December 31, 1982, exchange views with the
Association and establish a policy for its forestry sub-sector,
such policy to include a system of exploitation of existing state
plantations and a system of marketing and pricing of wood pro-
ducts; and (ii) exchange views with the Association on the carry-
ing out and the results of such policy at least once every year;
and
(b) before December 31, 1985, (i) exchange views with the
Association on the exploitation, marketing and pricing arrange-
ments that shall apply for the fuelwood, poles and saw timber
plantations under Parts B and C of the Project; and (ii) ensure


﻿- 10 -
that the stumpage fees charged for wood produced by such planta-
tions be sufficient to recover the full investment, operating
and maintenance costs of the plantations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the actions taken in accordance to Section 6.01 (a)
of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as to affect
materially and adversely the carrying out by the Borrower of its
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement;
and
(b) the Ministerial Arrete referred to in Section 6.01
(c) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as to
affect materially and adversely the carrying out by the Borrower
of its covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that any event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions :
(a) The Borrower has taken all necessary actions to, inter
alia, designate appropriate areas for afforestation in Kigali
and Butare Prefectures as national plantations, outline the
procedure for the development and management of such planLations
and define the objectives and procedures of the Borrower's program


﻿- 11 -
for development of the Gishwati Forest, and that such actions are
in full force and effect and in substance satisfactory to the
Association;
(b) the Project Account has been opened in accordance with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the
Borrower has deposited the equivalent of $100,000 therein;
(c) a Ministerial Arrete of the Borrower, which estab-
lishes the Project Management Committee referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement is in full force and effect and in sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d) the Project Coordinator and the Administrative and
Financial Director (referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement) have been appointed by the Borrower in accordance with
such Section.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the Borrower has taken
all actions mentioned fn Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement in
accordance with the legislation of Rwanda and that these actions
are valid and appropriate for the purposes for which they have been
taken.
Section 6.03. The date November 10, 1980 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 4.05 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of the Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Botte Postale 158
Kigali
Republique Rwandaise
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFIN                             CABPUB 04
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Project administration       1,000,000        30%
and extension services,
including staff salaries
and office and vehicle
operating costs
(2) Civil works, including                        95%
road works and devel-
opment of plantations
and livestock
(a) under contract          2,300,000
(b) by force account        9,200,000
(3) Vehicles, equipment            500,000        100% of foreign
and materials                                expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultants' services        3,000,000        100%
(5) Training; and trials,          900,000        100% of foreign
studies and surveys                           expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(6) Refunding of                1,000,000         100% of amount
advance for Project                           outstanding at
preparation                                  Effective Date
(7) Initial deposit in            300,000
Project Account
(8) Unallocated                  2,800,000
TOTAL            21,000,000
2.   Any unpaid charges on the advance for the preparation of
the Project withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (i) of this Agree-
ment will be taken from Category (8) above.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement; (ii) under
Categories (1), (2) and (3) with respect to Part B of the Pro-
ject until the Borrower has appointed the Director and two Deputy
Directors for the Kigali and Butare Sub-project; and (iii) under
Categories (1), (2) and (3) with respect to Part C of the Pro-
ject until the Borrower has appointed the Director of the Gish-
wati Sub-project and the heads of such Sub-project's afforestation
and livestock offices and their deputies.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is: (a) to develop the institutional capacity for
policy formulation regarding the forestry sector of Rwanda and the
implementation thereof; (b) to initiate a plantation program for
providing fuelwood, poles and saw timber for domestic consumption;
and (c) to intensify the food crops and the livestock industry in
the Gishwati area.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Strengthening of forestry services within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, including, inter alia: (i) reorganiza-
tion of the Waters and Forests Department, including its Forestry
Division; (ii) construction of appropriate offices; and (iii)
provision of staff and logistical support;
Part B:   Kigali and Butare Sub-project
Development in Kigali and Butare Prefectures of: (i) about
5,000 ha and 3,000 ha respectively, as fuelwood and pole (short-
rotation) plantations to supply the urban populations of Kigali
and Butare; and (ii) rural woodlots to supply fuelwood and poles
for the rural population mostly from these Prefectures;
Part C:   Gishwati Sub-project
Development in Gisenyi Prefecture of: (i) about 4,000 ha as
the initial part of a long term integrated forestry and live-
stock development program within the Gishwati Forest, including
about 2,000 ha of softwood plantations for the production of saw
timber, about 2,000 ha of pastures for high productivity dual-
purpose cattle production, of which about 200 ha for a technical
support center; and (ii) integrated crop and livestock services
(extension and experimental credit and marketing) in the farming
zones of the seven communes surrounding the Gishwati Forest;
Part D:
On-the-job training for Rwandese staff;


﻿- 17 -
Part E:
Studies and trials, including, inter alia: (i) a study of
Rwanda's energy use and needs; (ii) trials of more efficient
charcoal production techniques; (iii) development of new cooking
techniques for the rural population; and (iv) improvement of
pasture and animal production;
Part F:
Further project preparation, and provision of scholarships in
forestry, agricultural, livestock, and financial disciplines.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the. date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail -and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, goods shall be grouped so as to
permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 19 -
the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the territory of
the Borrower equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking iato account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 20 -
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $80,000 shall:
(a) be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's local
competitive bidding procurement procedures; and
(b) in the event such estimations are of more than $20,000,
be awarded following bids or price quotations invited from inde-
pendent suppliers located in not less than three member countries
of the Association (and Switzerland).
2.   Civil works, including site development, shall be carried out
either by the Borrower on force account or in accordance with the
Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 21 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other inform-
ation as the Association shall re asonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and stace the reasons for such dLtermination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more but less than
$80,000, not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the an.lysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198k.
FOR SECRETARY


