Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1V  3o B A-/oot
Report No. 6943-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
MARCH 17, 1989
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Agriculture Operations Division
his document has a reshkied ditrbudon and may be used by redpints ody In te pedormance of
teir official dutes. Its contents may not otewise be dbidod wihoun Wodd Bank authizaon.



CURRENCY EqUIWALENTS
Currency Unit                  Dirham (DH)
US$1.00                        DR 8.00
DH 1.00                        US$0.125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS
ACSAD    -    Arab Center for the Studies of Arid Zones and Dry Lands
Centre Arabe pour l'etude des Zones Arides et Terres Seches
CMV      -    Cer.tres de Mise en Valeur
Extension Centers (Irrigation)
CNCA     -    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
National Agriculture Credit Bank
CNERV    -    Centre National d'Etudes et de Recherche sur la Vulgarisation
National Center for Studies and Research in Extension
CRRA     -    Centre Regional de Recherche Agricole
Regional Agricultural Research Centers
CT       -    Centre de Travaux
Extension Centers (Rainfed)
DMVA     -    Direction de la Mise en Valeur Agricole
Directorate of Agricultural Development
DPA      -    Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture
Province Directorate for Agriculture
DVRA     -    Direction de la Vulgarisation et de la Reforme Agraire
Directorate of Extension and Agrarian Reform
IAV      -    Ins6itut Agricole et Veterinaire Hassan II
Agricultural and Veterinary Institute Hassan It
ICARDA   -    International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
Centre International de RechercLs Agricole pour les Zones Seches
ICRISAT  -    International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics
Institut International de Recherche pour les Cultures en Regions
Tropicales Semi-Arides
INRA     -    Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
National Institute for Agricultural Research
ISNAR    -    International Service for National Agricultural Research
Service International pour la Recherche Agricole Nationale
MARA     -    Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reform
ORMVA    -    Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole
Regional office for Agricultural Development (Irrigation)
SD       -    Sub-Division (ORMVA)
Sub-Division in Irrigated Schemes
SMS      -    Subject matter specialist
Sp6cialiste matiere (6quipes pluridisciplinaires)
T&V      -    Training and Visit System
Systeme Formation et Visite
348 9



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
i'pJGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Pr
Bobtrower               Kingdom of Morecco
Amoount:                US$28 Million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
ExecutitnAgencies:      National Instit^te for Agricultural Research (INRA)
Directorate for Extension and Land Reforr4 (DVRA)
Project lhsmarir-_      The project consists of a 5-year time slice of a ten-year
development program for agricultural research and extension
in Morocco. The research component would include: (a)
INRA's reorganization; (b) development of programming by
objectives for 5 research priority themes including: bread
wheat, forage crops, livestock, oil crops and olives; (c)
decentrali'sation of research, and development of two
regional research centers; (d) rehabilitation of 13
research farms; (e) establishment of 8 research/development
units; (f) strengthening of the information/doc-:i"entation
division; (g) training, technical assistance and
fellowships; and (h) improvement of INRA's personnel and
financial management. The extension component would
includet (a) establishment of an extension service at MARA;
(b) introduction of new national extension system based on
T&V system; (c) provision of improved research and
extension linkage through the research development
approach; (d) training, technical assistance and
fellowships; (e) reorganization of audio-visual units for
mass extension; and (f) establishment of Monitoring and
Evaluation units at DVRA and in DPAs.
Risks:                  Preliminary discussion and past joint activities over three
years with INRA and DVRA helped significantly in reaching
an agreement on the design and the content of the proposed
project. The main risks for this project are associated
with: (a) financing, particularly the allocation by the
Government of insufficient counterpart funds to cover
invesitment and operating expenses due to the difficult
economic situation in Morocco; and (b) failure to retain
trained staff. The funding risk has been reduced by
ensuring that the project investments are within the
Government's core investment program and maximizing the
participation of cofinanciers. The risk of losing trained
staff upon completion of their training abroad has been
minimized by requiring tht trainees to work for INRA for a
fixed time following the completion of training, and by the
efforts made to improve remuneration levels for research
scientists.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoiation.



( ii )
Estimated Prolect Costs                         Local      Foreian      Total
US$ Million - -
Research component                               12.4        13.0        25.4
Extensic.n component                             16.2         9.7        25.9
Total Base Costs                        28.6        22.7       51.3
Physical Contingencies              1.2        1.6         2.8
Price Contingencies                 3.9        2.8         6.7
Total Project Costs                     33.7 /a    27.1        60.8
Financing Plan                                  Local      ForeiRn      Total
-------US$ Million -----
World Bank                                       14.2        13.8        28.0
Cofinancing                                       4.0        11.6        15.6
Government                                        6.6         1.7         8.3
Net Project Cost                        24.8        27.1       51.9
Taxes and Duties                         8.9        -           8.9
Total Proje-t costs                     33.7       27.1        60.8
Estimated Disbursement
Bank FY           1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
-US$ million -    -
Annual             2.0     1.5      4.5     6.0     6.0      5.5     2.5
Cummulative        2.0     3.5     8.0    14.0    20.0    25.5    28.0
Economic Rate of Return:    n. a.
Map No.                      IBRD 19938R - 19939R
/a Includes US$8.9 million of taxes and duties.
3489t



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION   ............................... .   ........        1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR               ...........                  1
A.   Role of Agriculture in the Economy        ........            1
B.   Experience with Past Lending in the Sector                    3
III.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION IN MOROCCO  ..........         5
A.   Agricultural Research ........... ..  o...o ..........        5
B.   Extension Services                                           11
IV.  THE GOVERNMENT 10 YEAR RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
DEVELOPMENT P     RO                G      R      A      M        15
A.   Program Objectives and Strategy ..........15
B.   Summary Program Description                                  16
C.   Program Detailed Features  ..es.es............a .........    17
D.   Program Implementation in Physical Terms and Cost
Estimates                                                  23
V.    FIXANCING AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE FIRST
FIVE YEAR TIME SIICE PROJECT ..............26
A.   The Five Year Project .2.......    .     ........            26
Bo  Cost Estiatsi                  m     a    t     es..*0*00.    28
Co   Financing...o.o..  60000..0 es.     .&  * e%      29
Do Proc          urement........   .se       .  .   30
E.   Disbursementso                      ............             32
VI.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                34
A.   Research sees............. .............................    34
B.  Extension e....o..  .o.o.....se..    ..                       38
C.   Research and Extension Links... .......                      41
D.   Staffing, Reporting, Audits and Environment...se.....        41
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS      ...........................   43
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...se................    45
ts*OEv



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
TABLES:
1.   Total Acreage and Production ..................  47
2.   Summary Cost Estimates  ..****......**         ....     ..................  48
3.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan         ...................  52
ANNEXES:
1.    Planned Organization of the Project  Extension Services ............  53
2.    Status of Research by Crops and Disciplines  ......................  60
3.   Guidelines for Improvement of INRA's Financial Management    .........  63
ORGANIGRAMS:
1.   Research: INRA ..........................  ....  66
2.   Extension: Central Level  .............................   67
3.   Extension: Province Level ................................   68
IMPLEMENTATION CHARTS:
1,   Research                          ...........                          69
2.   Extension . . ....*....                                0 .  . ... **********  70
MAPS:
1.    IBRD 19939R : INRA Network
t.   IBRD 19938R : Extension Network
ANNEXES: (IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME)
I.    Research (INRA)
II.    Extension (DVRA)
III.    Training for Extension and Research
IV.    INRA's Organization, Management and Computerization
V.    INRA's Information and Documentation Development
VI.    Detailed Project Cost Estimates
34.93



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     As part of the 1985-89 Medium Term Sector Adjustment Program (MTSAP)
for the agriculture sector supported by the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 2590-MOR), the Government of Morocco has decided to implement a reform
of agricultural resea.rch and extension.  These vital services to agriculture
need radical improvement to provide the support needed to sustain the
government's new effort to give an impetus to growth in the sector. Following
the preparation by the Ministry of Agriculture of a 10-year development
program for both research and extension, the proposed project was formulated
to support the implementation of the first phase of the reform program. The
project would provide for the widespread introduction of a Training and Visit
(T&V) based system of extension, an introduction of a more focussed system of
research by objectives, and for improved linkage between research and
extension.
1.02     The program is based on experience drawn from on-going rural
development projects, from master plans prepared for extension and research,
the latter in cooperation with the "International Service for National
Agricultural Research" (ISNAR) and technical assistance provided by
international specialists. The proposed project is consistent with ongoing
and programmed work by other financing agencies, including USAID and GTZ
(para. 4.06), and is likely to benefit from parallel co-financing by KfW, GTZ,
French and Italian agencies. The project was prepared by the Government with
assistance from the FAO/IBRD cooperative program and Bank staff. It was
appraised in June 1987 by a mission composed of Mr. F. Reeb (mission leader),
Mr. J. Cole (agriculturist), Mr. J. M. Verdier (training) (Bank), and Mr.
Chavancy (research specialist) (consultant).  Negotiations, which were delayed
until remuneration levels for research scientists were increased (para. 3.11),
were held in February 1989.
H. "THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Role of Agriculture in the Economy
2.01     Background.  Overall, about 83% of the 77 million ha of arable land
is cultivated., In 1985/86 cereals covered 81% of the cultivated surface and
the balance was under pulses, fruit trees, olives, oil seed, vegetables and
forage. Surfaces and production are shown in Table I. Of Morocco's 60
million ha only 7.7 million are suitable for agriculture, with another 20
21ctr



- 2 -
million ha in semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for grazing. Of the
cultivable land, about 502 receives an erratic rainfall of less than 400 mm,
and can only be put under a relatively high risk, low value barley/fallow
cropping system. The remaining 50%, which benefits from good, but sometimes
erratic rainfall, can be cultivated with cereals, forage and fruit crops. Out
of an estimated potential for irrigation of 1.3 million ha, about 760,000 ha
are currently irrigated. The livestock sector includes 11.5 million sheep,
4.2 million goats, 2.4 million cattle and 1.4 million draught animals. The
rural population in Morocco numbers around 13.0 million people or 58% of the
total population. The agricultural sector includes about 1.5 million farms
and employs about 3.8 million people, most of whom are illiterate (82%).
About 1.5 million small and medium farms (less than 50 ha), which represent
992 of the total number of farms, account for 83% of the cultivated land,
while 17% of the land is distributed amongst large farms (over 50 ha). Small
farmers own an average of four plots. Individual land ownership accounts for
some 692 of total arable land; 5% of the land is government-owned, around 132
is collectively owned and the remainder comes under various other systems.
2.02     Past Performance of the Agricultural Sector and Potential.  The
performance of the agricultural sector has been uneven. Following a period of
-xpansion in the sixties, when agriculture grew at more than 3% p.a., and
accounted for 25% of the total growth in GDP, the rate of development of
Moroccan agricultvtre has slowed considerably. During the seventies and early
eighties, the sector's average annual growth rate was adversely affected by
successive droughts, which not only affected rainfed production but also
caused a serious shortage of water in the irrigated areas, and averaged only
1.27. In comparison with other middle income countries, agricultural sector
development was thus slow. With the return of more normal weather conditions
in the mid-eighties,production increased considerably, but the earlier
experience has highlighted the importance of better mobilizing technology to
provide for more stable growth and need for technical packages formulated on
the expectation of recurring drought, both subjects included in the themes of
the proposed project.
2.03     Currently, the agriculture sector accounts for about 177 of GDP and
provides about 40X of all employment compared with 28S of GDP and 55%
employment in 1974. Since the mid-seventies food production has failed to
keep pace with increased domestic demand generated by a combination of rapid
population growth (2.52 per year), a high rate of urbanization (4.87), and
declining real prices for food. Food imports have increased by about 107 p.a.
and self-sufficiency rate for key items has declined (cereals from 862 to 607,
edible oils from 32% to 152).  Altogether, agricultural impo.^ts now account
for about 257 of the merchandise imports. In view of this deteriorating
situation, improved food production is given, high priority by the government.
Prior to the start in 1985 of the Government's Medium Term Adjustment Program
for agriculture (para. 2.04), the total value of agricultural exports had been
stagnant for fifteen years, and today, the agricultural sector accounts for
about a third of Morocco's merchandise exports and 157 of total exports.
Recent growth in exports and productivity has underlined the fact that
Morocco's agricultural potential is far from being fully realized. The
potential for increasing cereal production on the basis of available cereal
1/ Programe d'action et possibilit6s d'investissement dans le secteur
cerealier No. 33/82 TA-MOR7, dated October 24, 1982



-3-
technology was estimated at 602 by an FAO study,*' while for other crops use
of improved cultural practices at farmers' level has been shown to yield
increases between 40 to 1202.
2.04     The Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program.  MTASAP was
prepared by the Government in 1984 in response to the poor performance of the
sector compared with potential. The five-year program started in 1985 with
prime objectives of reestablishing growth, at the same time as reducing the
burden of the sector on the national budget. To achieve this, MTASAP is: (a)
restructuring the public investment and expenditure program in agriculture;
(b) correcting the prices and incentives framework; (c) strengthening the
agricultural support services offered by the Government; (d) building up
institutional capacity for agricultural policy planning and analysis and
strengthening the organization and structure of the agricultural sector; and
(e) helping resolve the basic issues of improving productivity of land use and
protecting the natural resource base. The proposed project would directly
support (c) above. In the meantime, some progress has been made by MARA in
improving agricultural efficiency and production through institutional changes
and definition of long-term policies for research and extension discussed in
specific development plans. The Bank has strongly supported the above program
through two consecutive agricultural sector adjustment loans.
2.05     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (ASAL).  The first and second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (2590-MOR and 2885-MOR) address key
MTASAP objectives, which are to ensure success of any future development
programs in the sector. ASAL-I was signed in July 1985 and progressed well
with timely action being taken by the Government to implement its reform
program. ASAL-II which builds upon the MTASAP with an emphasis on the prices
and incentives framework for major agricultural commodities, became effective
in July 1988.
2.06     Under the ASALs, the Government has taken, among the other measures,
initial steps to implement institutional changes required to strengthen
research and extension (para. 3.14) and prepared a ten year development
program for each subsector (Chapter IV). In parallel with the reforms
proposed for research and extension under ASAL-I, actions have been taken to
improve inputs distribution networks while maintaining present levels of
growth in consumption, by ensuring adequate and timely availability of
fertilizer and seeds across the country and encouraging private and
cooperative sector participation in inputs marketing. In addition to the
development of agricultural credit through the Bank's sixth line of credit to
CNCA (2731-MOR), measures already taken in the sector such as: adjustment of
fertilizer marketing margins, participation of private companies in fertilizer
import and distribution planning, partial transfer of seed productioai tG4)
from INRA to SONACOS/SOGETA, and granting royalties to INRA for varietal
development of seeds, are expected to improve credit availability and input
distribution to all farmers of the country. The above measures would also
strengthen the base for the successful implementation of a research and
extension project which has to rely on well-developed and efficient support
agencies to reach farmers and develop sector demand."'
B. Eperience with Past Lending in the Sector
2.07     The Bank has provided considerable support to Moroccan agriculture in
recent years, performance of Bank-financed projects has generally been
1/ Fnr more details of the MTAIJAP see Report No. P-4437, dated March 1987.



- 4 -
satisfactory and the projects have helped provide a good basis for further
growth in the sector. Bank group lending for agriculture began in 1965. To
date 13 projects have been coroleted, 10 projects are underway and one was
negotiated in 1988. They include eight irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane
(FY65), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), Doukkala
II (FY77), ail completed, two Small and Medium Scale Irrigation projects (FY83
completed and FY88 not yet effective) and the Large Scale Irrigation
Improvement (FY86). There have also been six agricultural credit projects
(FY66, FY73, FY77, FY79 and FY84, all completed, and FY66 on-going), an
agro-industries and flood control project (Sebou II, FY74 completed), five
rainfed agricultural development projects: Meknes (FY75) and Loukkos (FY80),
completed, and the on-going Fes--Karia-Tissa (FY78), Middle Atlas (FY82), and
Oulmes Rommani (FY83), an export-oriented Vegetable and Marketing Project
(FY79), a Forestry Project (FY82), and two Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loans (FY85 completed and FY88). Several of these projects have been reviewed
in the OED report "Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension".
2.08     Rural Development and Credit Projects.  In the rainfed subsector, the
first project (Meknes, Credit No. 555-MOR) experienced considerable delays in
implementation due to land redistribution problems, poor preparation of
project components, over-optimistic assessment of implementation targets, and
inexperience in the organization and management of rural development
projects. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Project (Loan No. 1602-MOR) was designed to
minimize organization and management problems encountered with Meknes, and the
implementation of both the productive and the social components are generally
satisfactory. After a good start, implementation of the Loukkos, Midile
Atlas, Oulmes Rommani, and Forestry Projects (Loan Nos. 1848, 2082, 2217, and
2110-MOR respectively) has been delayed as a result of the budgetary
constraints faced by the country. However, valuable experience has been
gained through these projects in testing the organizational arrangements
needed for a successful extension service in Morocco and staff training
requirements. In addition, closer contacts with research have been achieved
in Middle Atlas showing how cooperation between research and extension can be
expanded. Performance of the five completed agricultural credit projects has
been good. Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) stress the contribution
made by the projects to the country's agricultural development, their success
in establishing an efficient credit institution and the successful expansion
of credit to small farwars. They also underline the importance of improving
agricultural price policy, extension and inputs distribution for improved
economic and financial performance of the credit loans. These issues are
being addressed through Bank sector work and through the MTASAP (para. 2.04).
2.09     Irrigation Projects.  Performance of the irrigation projects has been
good once initial problems of land distribution and organizational delays in
construction and procurement of irrigation equipment were overcome. The PPAR
for the Sebou I Project (Loan No. 643-MOR) stresses the project's success in
institution building and in providing infrastructure to achieve production
increases in irrigated crops. It also highlights the need to complete land
reform programs before the start of irrigation works, the importance of
successful extension work, timely allocation of funds to O&M, and collectior.
of water charges. The PPARs for the Doukkala I Irrigation Project (Loan No.
1201-MOR) and Doukkala II Project (Loan 1416-MOR) indicate that both projects
were successfully completed with actual production and cropping intensity
exceeding appraisal targets. The PPAR of the Souss Groundwater Project (Loan
No. 1123-MOR) stresses the successful land consolidation of freehold land,



- 5 -
distribution of state and collectively-owned land and the establishmect of
service cooperatives. It, however, highlights the neglect of regular
operation and maintenance caused by inadequate funding and lack of qualified
staff. This problem inter alia is being addressed by the Large Scale
Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan No. 2656-MOR). The PPAR of the Sebou II
Project (Loan No. 1018-MOR) notes that as a result of the Project, commercial
sugar cane production and processing were successfully established but
emphasizes the vulnerability of investments aimed at the production of a
single, internationally-traded commodity like sugar which is subject to wide
price fluctuations, and also dependent on the successful development of
sensitive new crops like sugar cane. Under the on-going Large Scale
Irrigation Project, a T&V based extension system is being implemented in all
irrigated schemes in line with recommendations made in the proposed project,
and the irrigation project agencies are committed to contract research work
with INRA or other research agencies in order to facilitate implementation of
the research and extension project.
M1. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION IN MOROCCO
A. Mricultural Research
Institutions Currently Involved
3.01     Several agencies currently carry out agricultural research in
Morocco. The most important is the Agricultural Research Institute (INRA)
(para. 3.06), which, created in 1981 with its Regional Research Network
(CRRA's) (para. 3.07), is the only institution in Morocco whose activities are
exclusively devoted to agricultural research. Other institutions (public,
para-public or private) carry out agricultural research as a support to their
main activities of which the most important are the "Ecole Nationale
d'Agriculture" of Meknes (ENA) and the "Institut Agronomique et V6terinaire
Hassan II" (IAV) in Rabat. Although these programs often tend to be oriented
to educational purposes rather than to production, and therefore often are of
little use in providing efficient support to farmers, IAV's potential for
livestock and social science research is considered to be the best in Morocco
because of the high calibre of its facilities. Within MARA, the livestock
department runs its own research stations. At a regional level, the
"Directions Provinciales de l'Agriculture" (DPAs) and "Offices Regionaux de
Mise en Valeur" (ORMVAs) also carry out some limited research programs either
directly or through contracts with INRA or IAV. Important citrus research is
carried out on the Royal Estates. With the exception of the "Societ6 Agricole
de Services au Maroc" (SASMA), an apex cooperative institution, which has a
good reputation for vegetable research, private sector activity appears to be
negligible.
3.02     Links between institutions doing research in Morocco are loose
resulting in a lack of integration and coordination between them;
consequently, the sector requires the leadership of a research agency
perceived throughout the country as strong, efficient, and .eliable. INRA was
created to provide this leadership. INRA, whose activities have in the past
been severely limited by staffing and financing constraints, has recently
started to extend its potential throuph joint research programs with
ENA/Mek.es, IAV, SASMA, and the University of Marrakech, and has contracted a
joint research program with the Royal Estates for in-vitro plant production.



-6-
Research Fin&ncing
3.03     In recent years expenditures on agricultural research have grown
slowly and in the 1988 Morocco "Loi de Finances" INRA's budget accounts for
only 1.3X of MARA's budget. INRA's resources are estimated by ISNAR at only
0.302 of agricultural GDP, which is slightly less than the average for African
countries (0.36X), and considerably below the average in high income countries
(2.22).
Current Research Priorities
3.04     As part of the reform of the nation's research system INRA's Board of
Directors approved in July 1983 three priority groups of crops to be covered
by the national research effort as follows:
First Prioritr           Second Priority           Third Priority
Cereals                  Fruit trees                Pulses
Rainfed forage           Citrus
Red meat (sheep)         Vegetables
Oil seeds and olives     Sugar crops
This prioritization, which still remains valid, is generally consistent with
assessments of Morocco's comparative advantage in agriculture1' and supports
both import substitution crops and export crops.
3.05     INRA's research activities are managed either at headquarters in
Rabat or at regional level in the CRRAs.  Research themes, managed at
headquarters are part of national programs devised and executed by
headquarters departments through regional experimental stations in charge of
field implementation. They include research by crops and by disciplines as
detailed in Annex 2.
The Institut National de la Recherche Agronomigue (INRA)
3.06     INRA is a public enterprise responsible for coordinating research in
Morocco. It has financial autonomy and is under the aegis of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Land Reform.a' INRA's responsibilities as defined by legal
texte include: (a) scientific, technical and economic research related to
agriculture and livestock development; (b) studies on natural environment and
on improvement of plant and animal production; (c) trials of new crops and
processing and utilization of plant and animal products; (0 monitoring
research, stiAies, and works carried out for Government agencies; (e) making
information on domestic and foreign research available to the agricultural
sector; (f) studying and determining methods of application of research
results and advising extension services and farmezs; and (g) exchanging
1/ See for example, Morocco "Agriculture Prices and Incentives Study" Report
No. 6045-MOR.
2/ INRA's resources are provided through the Government budget and it is
authorized to borrow money, earn revenues or receive contributions.



results of its own domestic experiments, studies, and work with other
research agencies. Although not originally included within the above
description, INRA's activity expanded over the years to include foundation and
registered seed production up to G4 level with the h-ope of generating
revenues. This experience proved to be costly as well as financially
non-viable, and the foundation seed program was reduced down to G-3 production
under ASAL-I.
3.07     INRA's general director reports to a Board of Directors which is
responsible for approving research programs, budget, financing, and
organizational changes. The Board of Directors includes representatives of
six ministries, "Chambres d'Agriculture" and farmers' associations and is
chaired by a representative of the Prime Minister's office. Until 1986,
INRA's structure was very complex and unevenly balanced with a large research
and experimentation division opposed to several small divisions and services.
At province level, definition of responsibilities was unclear with ambiguous
criteria defining links between units and an ill-defined hierarchy which
caused many conflicts. In order to remedy that situation, a new organization
was prepared on the basis of ISNAR's proposals in 1984 (Impl. Vol. Annex I,
Appendix 1) and was approved by the Ministry of Finance in February 1986.
This new organization is being progressively implemented and most of the key
positions are now filled. As a result, INRA is now divided into four
directorates: information and training, planning, management of the CRRAs and
administration and seven scientific departments for main disciplines.
Regional research is managed through eight CRRAs at Tangier, Oujda, Kenitra,
Meknes, Settat, Afourer, Marrakech, and Agadir. In the meantime, research
farms were consolidated under the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
from 48 to 22. This INRA extensive network was not out of proportion with the
country's size but it was not in keeping with the available scientific staff
and financial resources.
3.08     About half of the scientific personnel is concenttated in Rabat.  At
all levels, admiristrative tasks are carried out by research scientists to the
detriment of scientific work and cause a significant loss of efficiency. At
regional level, scientific personnel is isolated and most of the 8 CRRAs have
a staff of less than 10 engineers while 65% of research farms are managed by
technicians and contractual engineers. Regional understaffing also prevents
full utilization of INRA land and in spite of a significant land ownership
reduction by 431 in 1986, only 75% is cultivated (101 for experimentation -
440 ha, 45b for seed multiplication, and 202 for cereal production). However,
the CRRAs do achicve some valuable research results by managing research on
certain crops such as: (i) research on citrus for which varietal improvement,
plant protection and cultural practices components are dealt with by INRA and
SASMA in Kenitra and Agadir; (ii) research on vegetables which is integrated
with all other components of the cropping systems of the region of Agadir and
answers specific local problems. However, the Agadir CRRA's works and
responsibilities have not been extended to other CRRAs as expected, a
situation which increases its isolation in the South and prevents it from
coordinating its activities with those carried out elsewhere; (iii) Saharan
agronomy in Marrakech which needs better multi-disciplinary integration and a
socio-economic component to handle analysis of problems arising in agriculture
south of the Atlas chain; and (iv) research on agriculture in arid zones which
is successfully carried out in close coordination with USAID and US
universities and includes a comprehensive study of most agricultural and
socio-economic problems in the CRRA of Settat (Impl. Vol. Annex I,



- 8 -
Appendix 7). This decentralization is expected to be greatly expanded under
the proposed project.
3.09     Inadequate maintenance financing exacerbated by the size of the
research network and its geographical dibpersion has led to a deterioration of
INRA's physical infrastructure and consequently buildings need urgent repairs
and 73Z of vehicles are old and inoperable. Existing agricultural equipment
is similarly inadequate and modern and appropriate machinery for research is
required. The information department at INRA is at a standstill due to a lack
of both qualified personnel and adequate financing, while an important amount
of existing information which has remained unused for decades needs to be
sorted, classified, and made easily available to research scientists. This
situation also prevents timely publication of research scientists' work.
Implementation of programming by objectives, strengthening of management and
decentralization to be carried out under the Project should help to alleviate
these problems.
INRA Resources and Financial Management
3.10     About 97Z of INRA resources are provided through Government budgetary
transfers with the difference being made up by sales of foundation and
registered seeds (2.5X) and contracts for research work with ORMVAs and other
departments in MARA (0.52). This low percentage o. income from contracts
reflects INRA's lack of credibility. Although granted financial autonomy,
INRA is governed by such rigid rules under the Ministry of Finance's
monitoring that very little flexibility is left to the institution to use the
funds for coping with the inevitable erratic and sometimes unpredictable needs
of a cropping season. In addition, procedures to release funds are inadequate
and the allocated budget often becomes available after delays of several
months, thus significantly hampering research programs and discouraging staff
by raising the stress levels under which they work. These key issues w3uld be
addressed under the proposed Project.
INRA Staffing
3.11     After a period of stagnation from 1963 to 1975, INRA's staff grew to
its present level of about 2,225 of which only about 180 are engineers and 300
are technical agents. In the meantime, foreign technical staff was reduced in
number from 117 to 20. IARA's staff situation is characterized by: (a) an
uneven distribution of research scientists between headquarters (52%) and the
regions (48X) where they are scattered in small inefficient groups with
inadequate incentives, financing, and equipment; and (b) a rapid turnover of
regional research scientists due to the above conditions which inhibits
continuity, experience and useful training and has detrimental consequences
for research work; (c) an iriadequate number of research scientists of
disparate skills who often have to carry out time-consuming administrative and
management tasks; (d) an insufficient staffing at medium level (technical
agents); (e) an over-abundance of unqualified workers who are unproductive and
consequently costly and difficult to manage; and (f) a lack of qualified
administrative personnel who could relieve research scientists from
administrative tasks. In order to improve that situation, a new statute was
adopted for INRA's personnel in 1985 with a more attractive salary scale and a
special classification for research scientists. However, this decisin had



-9-
less impact than expected since MARA engineer salaries were increased by 100%
in 1986 and therefore INRA's salary scale became uncompetitive. The situation
improved following the realignment of salary levels with MARA's engineers in
the 1989 budget, but further changes will be required to satisfy the goals of
the 1985 statute and enable INRA to attract senior research scientists. In
addition to a salary revision for senior research scientists, an increase in
their number would be a prerequisite for INRA's development.
INRA External Relations
3.12     INRA is relatively isolated within the national research system
characterized by a number of ill-assorted institutions which do not
sufficiently inter-communicate.  Lack of diffusion of scientific information
of work conducted by its research scientists, lack of enough joint research
programs with o.her research institutions, and failure to address farmers'
specific problems and to make scientific information readily available to them
in the CRRAs also contribute to INRA's isolation and deprive the institution
of the strength, authority and reliability which would have given it the
leadership in research sought by the legislators (para. 3.06). However, at
the regional level some informal contacts do exist (para. 3.08) resulting in
better coordination of research work and better appreciation from farmers.
Before it can effectively meet its responsibilities for coordination and
evaluation of research carried out throughout the country, INRA would need to
become a well-organized and reliable institution. Aware of that weakness, the
Government has already initiated institutional and structural changes to
improve INRA's efficiency (para. 3.14) and the proposed project aims at both
completing and complementing these reforms. At the international level, INRA
has close cooperation with countries such as France, West Germany, Spain and
the United States and maintains links and sometimes coordination with
international research agencies or institutions such as CIAT, EEC, FAO, IBPGR,
ICRISAT, IFAD, IRRI, UNDP, etc. and particularly with ACSAD and ICARDA which
provides expertise for food pulses and CIMMYT with whom an agreement is being
negotiated for cereals improvement. INRA plans to further expand its external
relations during the next coming years and is also studying possibilities of
twinning the agency with foreign universities (pata. 4.12).
*     Constraints to Development in Agricultural Research and Recent Progress
3.13     Work carried out for preparation of the research development program
has highlighted priority areas for action needed to give a new impetus to
Morocco's agricultural research program.  These include:
(a)  weakness of scientific potential compared with the scope of ongoing
research programs.  As discussed above (para. 3.11), the number of
scientific staff is very low and represents only 82 of the total,
with technical staff accounting for 13%, and support staff for 79Z.
In addition, more than 50% of scientific and technical staff is
concentrated in Rabat. The low quality level of most scientific
staff is also an issue which shows INRA's inability to attract and
keep top research scientists due to an inadequate statute for
personnel, low salaries, isolation at provincial level, lack of
working facilities and difficulty in publishing researchers' work.
The project would address this problem by promoting training,
increasing the number of research scientists, developing strong
provincial centers and reorganizing the information department. It



- 10 -
would also support revision of research scientists' statute and the
increase of their salaries (paras. 4.05 and 6.07);
(b) lack of clear systems to define research themes. Presently research
programs are defined on an ad hoc basis on proposals presented by
research/scientists. This prevents the establishment of sound
development policy for research units. The project would address the
problem by establishing programming by objectives (para. 6.04);
(c) inadequate systems of technical message preparation. Attempts to
improve INRA support to farmers have met with uneven success.
Technical messages need to be developed, coordinated and adapted
jointly with other institutions and particularly extension services,
CRRA's and research development units before being included in
technical packages in a single and precise format understandable to
farmers. The project would address the problem by establishing
research development units at CRRAs (para. 4.10);
(d) 'ack of monitoring for research programs and research/scientists
which prevents sound evaluation and improvement of research works and
makes it difficult to reward research scientists according to merit.
The project would address the problem by implementing a new
evaluation system for INRA staff (para. 6.07);
(e) centralized organization in which conception and execution of
research was the responsibility of central stations at Rabat which
carried out monodisciplinary programs based only on the specific
conditions of research stations. This tended to produce scientific
results that were of limited significance, particularly for
traditional agriculture. The project would address the problem by
implementing programming by objectives and decentralization of
research work through CRRAs (paras. 6.04 and 6.05);
(f) inadequacy of the regulatory financing framework applicable to INRA.
The Ministry of Finance imposes very tight control on INRA such as
prior monitoring of expenses, centralization of control in Rabat and
lengthy budgetary procedures. This situation is aggravated by the
lack of timely availability of annual budgets which significantly
hampers research work during the first months of the year as well as
lack of information concerning the amount upon which to rely. The
project would address the problem by improving financial management
of INRA (para. 6.10); and
(g)  lack of financing which is mainly due to the country's economic
difficulties and a problem external to INRA but which has significant
repercussions on research activities. Consequently, (i) agricultural
equipment cannot be renewed and is obsolete while laboratory
equipment is inadequate to cover priority programs; and (ii) the
information and documentation department lacks qualified staff and
adequate equipment and is virtually non-operational. The project
would address the problem by providing adequate financing to carry
out essential investments required to achieve smoo,th operations for
INRA (Table 5.1).



- 11 -
3.14     Under ASAL I and ASAL II a good start has been made in taking the
following measures to relieve the above constraints. Under ASAL I, through:
(a) completiou of studies to reorganize INRA structure and research programs
and definition of priority research themes; (b) implementation of a new
statute for resea.ch scientists; (c) reduction of the research network by
about 50' to consolidate staff and facilities; and (d) reduction of seed
production by INRA to mother seeds level. Under ASAL II through: (a)
improvement of budgeting procedures; (b) increasing research scientists staff;
(c) establishment of new accounting offices in CRRAs; and (d) revision of
research scientists' salaries. The project would build on the improvement of
the policy framework obtained through the ASALs by means of specific
investments and actions to upgrade the organization and execution of research
in Morocco.
B. Extension Services
Organization of the extension Services
3.15     Extension services in Morocco are provided by MARA through the
"Direction de la Vulgarisation et de la Reforme Agraire" (DVRA) established in
1980. Under supervision of MARA's "Comit6 technique de la vulgarisation",
this Direction is responsible for integrating all extension activities and
applying the same extension methodology throughout the country, defining
suitable techniques, means and methods for extension and organizing extension
training. It also has responsibility for promoting the development of
cooperatives and ensuring liaison between MARA, professional associations and
farmers' unions and for all activities related to land reform.
3.16     At the central level in Rabat, DVRA has a division for extension and
cooperatives which is responsible for coordinating and planning all extension
activities with the exception of livestock which is dealt with by the
Livestock Department at MARA through a small group of specialized extension
agents. At regional level, rainfed and irrigated areas have different
extension structures. In the rainfed sector, MARA is represented by 35
provincial offices (DPAs) in which the extension services are represented at a
relatively low level, i.e., a "bureau" within the "Service de la Mise en
Valeur" under management of both DVRA and DPV (Direction de la Production
V6getale). In the irrigated sector, extension operates through a "bureau"
within the Agricultural Production Service in the nine ORMVAs. For both
irrigated and rainfed agriculture, the extension "bureaux" deal with cultural
practices, extension, training, subsidies, credit, cooperatives and
audio-visual activities. At farmers' level, there are 121 CTs (extension
centers in rainfed areas) throughout the country. The CT staff includes about
2,000 technical agents of which 800 work on extension providing a coverage of
1 agent for 1,740 farmers. Their activities have until recently included: (a)
extension services; (b) cooperative development; (c) agricultural credit and
investment code-related activities; (d) input supply although under ASAL
reforms some of these activities are gradually being handed over to the
private sector or other government agencies; and (e) administration and
financing. Within the ORMVAs, there are 156 CMVs (extension centers in
irrigated areas) wh4ch are the field administrative and technical units
responsible for the implementation of ORMVA agricultural development
programs. The CMV staff includes some 1,400 technical agents of which some
800 work on extension providing a coverage of 1 agent for 195 farmers. The



- 12 -
areas covered by CMVs are smaller, but with a higher farmer density than in
the CTs.  The CMVs responsibilities include follow-up of development
operations, input supply and management. In both CTs and CMVs, livestock
extension is presently carried out by a very light and therefore not very
efficient network of agents directly managed by the livestock department.
These figures show that while coverage in irrigation is adequate, it is far
from meeting the needs for rainfed farmers. The ratio of high level extension
staff (agriculture engineers) is very low in rainfed areas with only 42
engineers, while it reaches 122 in irrigated schemes. The present extension
organization provides a good basis for development but needs: (a)
administrative upgrading to put extension at the same level as other MARA
activities; (b) development to meet adequate efficiency criteria particularly
at medium management level; and (c) expansion to cover all field units
including integration of livestock extension within the activities of the main
extension service. This would be started under the proposed project.
Extension for Women
3.17     Women's extension is a new activity which is now receiving more
attention from DVRA. Each DPA includes a women's section and about a hundred
women extension agents were trained in 1987 in communication techniques,
health, family planning, and small animal raising. The role of women in
Moroccan agriculture changes greatly from one region to another. For example,
in some regions they participate in livestock management and production
systems, while in other regions this is fully the responsibility of men.
Prior to the preparation of detailed programs for extension services for women
in the different regions, the Government has decided to carry out a nationwide
study with FAO support. Results are expected to be available by the end of
1989 and would be used to expand extension activities aimed at women (para.
4.16).
Extension Activities
3.18     With the exception of 28 pilot CTs and 14 CTs located in Bank project
areas, extension as presently carried out in Morocco is not effective due to
the lack of a well-designed system at the national level and the resulting
difficulty in providing staff with clear terms of reference and working
programs at all levels. Present activities of extension agents include many
operations which can only be classified as support activities. TU.-se include
managing demonstration plots, training farmers, arranging trips to advanced
farms, audio-visual activities, organizing agricultural contests and regional
fairs, input supply and mechanized land preparation services. Extension
agents also have to participate in government nationwide campaigns such as
collective ploughing, promotion of medicago, expansion of bread wheat,
development of sugar beet, etc. In addition, since November 1984, all CTs
have been asked to train, over three years, young farmers who failed in their
high school studies. All these activities (excluding livestock which comes
under direct management of the livestock department of MARA) are carried out
without methodology, on an ad hoc basis, and their impact is difficult to
evaluate. As a consequence of the multiplicity of tasks, extension agents
work only occasionally on true extension activities.
3.19     To remedy the above situation, a new approach based on an adaptation
of the T&V system has been tested with success within pilot CTs and CTs in
ongoing Bank-supported rural development projects. This new approach has been



- 13 -
highly successful and has met with full support from DVRA management as well
as from field staff. The government plans to expand it to cover all favorable
rainfed and all irrigated areas starting with the proposed project. However,
because of the lack of available technical packages, a full extension system
cannot be set up in higher risk areas such as in the mountains and low
rainfall regions. In these areas a different approach including emphasis on
research (the "research development" approach) would be tested with the
objective of developing suitable packages.
Extension Training
3.20     Morocco has three higher level agricultural schools which provide
degree level training: IAV in Rabat, ENA in Meknes and Ecole Nationale
Forestiere d'Ingenieurs (ENFI) in Sale. None of these institutions teach
extension or cooperative development. Technical agents are trained in 14
schools where extension curricula represent only 1 to 2% of the programs.
This low proportion is insufficient to provide adequate training for extension
agents. In an attempt to remedy this situation, two agricultural schools -
Sahel Boutahar and Tiflet - have had their programs extended by one year to
provide practical training in extension under two Bank financed ongoing rural
development projects, Fes-Karia-Tissa (1602-MOR) and Oulmes Rommani
(2217-MOR). On-the-job training has been carried out on an ad hoc basis by
projects, IAV, ORMVAs, DVRA and CNERV and focuses on cultural practices to the
detrimett of livestock, communication techniques and extension methods.
However, on-the-job training for extension workers has shown significant
improvement during the past two years with the establishment of 28 pilot CTs
(with financial support from the Bank) and the taking over of the "Centre
National d'Etudes et de Recherche sur la Vulgarisation" (CNERV), financed
under a Bank education project, by ENA/Meknes which is in charge of most of
the extension training courses. Much more progress is necessary to meet the
requirements of a developing extension system and the proposed project would
address this key issue (para. 4.17).
Liaison between Extension/Research
3.21     DVRA and INRA are two separate entities with neither structural nor
institutional linkages. Coordination in theory is provided through committees
such as the "Conseil National de la Vulgarisation Agricole" and the "Comite
Technique de la Vulgarisation" in which INRA should participate but neither of
these committees are operational and both INRA and DVRA lack a coordination
unit to ensure permanent communication with external agencies. At the
regional level, the situation is similar and contacts between research and
extension are irregular, and dependent on personal contacts of staff of both
institutions. However, some steps in the right direction were taken in 1986
with the creation at INRA of (a) a division of information and training which
is responsible for ensuring liaison with development institutions; and (b) a
research development service within each CRRA in order to ensure cooperation
with the DPAs and particularly with subject matter specialist (SMS) teams
established at DPA/ORMVA level. These measures will be built on in the
proposed project (para. 4.10).



- 14 -
Constraints to the Development of the Extension Sector and Recent Progress
3.22     Work carried out during preparation of the national extension
development program has highlighted the priority areas for action needed to
upgrade Moroccan extension efforts. These include:
(a) inappropriate institutional framework: At MARA, extension is managed
jointly with cooperatives by the same division. At provincial level,
extension representation is reduced to a unit (bureau) of the
agriculture development division (Service de la mise en valeur) and
therefore falls under double management of DVRA and DPV. In the
provinces, DVRA has direct authority over the CTs, while in the
ORMVAs field activities of the CMVs are under direct management of
the Offices. A separate organization for extension is needed at DVRA
and in the ORMVA to implement an efficient extension program. Except
for Bank projects and pilot CTs, extension agents are not technically
supported by SMS teams and livestock activities are carried out
independently by the livestock department staff. The project would
address the problem by establishing a separate extension structure
from the Ministry down to the province level with assured SMS support
(para. 4.14);
(b) inadequate staff skill and motivation: Staff is generally poorly
motivated because of insufficient skills and lack of on-the-job
training, well-defined working programs and schedules (para. 3.18).
This situation is aggravated by low salaries, difficult living
conditions, and limited scope for promotion. The project would
address the problem by implementing new extension methods (para.
4.15) and a sound training system (para. 4.17); and
(c)  financing constraints:  Insufficient financing results in:  (a) lack
of housing for extension agents - only about one third are provided
with a house while the others have to live in cities or villages with
long travel time to the CTs and field at a period when vehicles are
scarce and operating costs insufficient to meet basic needs; (b) lack
of vehicles - only 19% of CTs and 302 of CMV technical personnel
benefit from vehicles, most of which are in poor condition and
therefore unreliable; and (c) lack of funds for operating costs - in
general, budget allocations are largely insufficient to cover normal
activities. As a consequence, extension activities are almost
non-existent. In addition, CTs suffer from the late availability of
budgetary credits (June/July), leading to a halt in field activities
during the first months of the year, right in the middle of the
growing season. Steps have been taken under ASAL-II and the
Structural Adjustment Loan (3001-MOR) to improve the timing and flow
if funds to agriculture, and the project would provide adequate
inancing for investment and operating costs (Table 5.1).



- 15 -
IV. THE GOVERNMENT 10-YEAR RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Program Objetives and Strategy
Program Rationale
4.01     As part of the government's Medium Term Adjustment Program (para.
2.04), the government has prepared a 10-year development program
(Implementation Chart 4.1, page 24) to reform the research and extension
subsectors, by dealing with the problems described in Chapter III above. This
10-year development program which is the basis for the project proposed for
financing, was prepared with assistance from the International Service for
National Agriculture Research (ISNAR) and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
4.02     In the research sector, the program aims at: (a) establishing a
well-defined structure for INRA, decentralizing research to the CRRAs,
avoiding interferences with the line of command, clearly defining
responsibilities, and bringing research staff ctoser to farmers to ensure
better knowledge of their needs and reaction to innovations through closer
linkages with extension; (b) establishing reseArch/development units in all
CRPUs to maintain close coordination with extansion at province level; (c)
implementing a new staff policy to retain research scientists and reward
research work or achievements according to their importance; (d) implementing
new budgetary and financial procedures to ensure adequate on-time financing of
research activities; (e) extending research by objective to involve
multidisciplinary teams and getting close coordination between disciplines to
carry out research programs which would include farming system trials; (f)
defining research programs focussing on major priority crops to avoid
dispersion and concentrate all working means on priority works; (g)
encouraging the development of research contracts in areas where other
Institutions can provide efficient support; (h) establishing an efficient
*       data, documentation and publishing service to provide up-to-date information
to research scientists and publish their works; and (i) establishing a program
for training research staff to improve their technical level.
4.03     In the extension sector, the program aims at: (a) establishing an
efficient organization for extension by setting a clear line of command and
responsibilities from MARA to the field; (b) implementing the tested T&V based
extension system adapted to the regions' socio-agro-ecological conditions
where technical packages are available, and bringing extension staff closer to
the farmers; (c) developing packages through the research-development approach
where technical packages are not available; (d) establishing closer linkages
between research and extension; (e) taking over progressively extension
services from ongoing Bank-financed projects to ensure continuity of work; (f)
establishing a specific training system for extension staff to improve their
knowledge and skills and keep them abreast of technological developments; (g)
developing audio-visual units to support extension work; and (h) creating
monitoring and evaluation units to keep management updated about the
operations and achievements of the extension services.



- 16 -
B. Summary Program  Dscrption
4.04     To achieve its objectives the 10 year program (Chart I) would include
the following components:
A.   Research:1'
-    INRA reorganization:  (a) support to INRA's new structure and to
reorganization of research work through decentralization; (b)
development of research contracts with other institutions; (c)
decentralization of management and strengthening of CRRAs; (d)
development of information processing; and (e) improvement of
the financing system; 2/
-    development of research priorities:  (a) bread wheat in good
rainfed areas including research on cropping patterns; (b)
forage crops which benefit already from a steady and efficient
but limited support of West Germany bi-lateral aid; (c)
livestock (sheep); (d) oilseeds in good rainfed areas; (e)
olives; (f) vegetables; (g) citrus; and (h) fruit trees
including palm trees (bayoud).
-    strengthening and developing of four CRRAs at Meknes, Marrakech,
Agadir, and Kenitra where the priority programs, including
farming system trials, have to be carried out;
-    rehabilitation of INRA'a 22 research farms;
-    establishment of research/development units in the eight CRRAs;
-    strengthening of the information and documentation
department3z;
-    training and technical assistance;-
-    establishment of a coordination unit within the programming
division; and
-    financing of additional investments, equipment and operating
costs for tie above activities; the latter would be financed
without interruption over the 10-year program life.
B.   Extension:1'
-    establishment of a specialized division for extension at DVRA
level, to coordinate and supervise extension activities
throughout the country. Creation of separate services for
extension under this division management at DPA/ORMVA level; and
establishment of SMS teams at DVRA, DPAs, and ORMVAs;
1/ For details see Annex I of the Implementation Volume.
2/ For details see Annex IV of the Implementation Volume.
3/ For details see Annex V of the Implementation Volume
4/ For details see Annex II of the Implementation Volume



- 17 -
implementation of the T&V based extension approach in 100 CTs,
including the 28 pilot CTs and 14 CTs presently covered by Bank
financed rural development projects, and in 100 CMVs. About 1
million farmers would be covered, of whom about 250,000 would
participate in the contact group extension system which would be
flexible enough to be adapted to specific conditions of each
CT/CMV after approval of the region/ORMVA;
establishment of a sound training system for extension agents;
reorganization and development of the audio-visual services at
DVRA and in the regions;
establishment of monitoring and evaluation units at DVRA and at
DPA/subdivision level;
technical assistance and fellowships;
establishment of a coordination unit at DVRA; and
financing of additional investments, equipment and operating
cost for the above activities; the latter would be financed
throughout the ten-year program.
C. Program Detailed Features
(1) Research
Support to INRA's management reorganization
4.05     The program would support the implementation of INRA reorganization
as defined by the Government on the basis of ISNAR's recommendations
(Organigram I) which implies: (a) reorganization of INRA's headquarters into
four directorates (information and training, programming, CRRA's management
and administration) and seven departments (plant improvement, phytiatry,
agronomy, livestock, agro-industry, environment - soil science, climatology
and cropping systems - and socio-economy); (b) decentralization of management
and research to eight CRRAs and carrying out research work through programming
by objective.  Consequently, multidisciplinary teams would be established to
carry out comprehensive research programs by objective clearly identified in
technical, financial and managerial fields and able to produce results
suitable for applied research and extension use; (c) development of the
division for training and information; and (d) improvement of the financing
system through new financing procedures adequate to ensure the flexibility
required for agricultural research work. The program would focus on
increasing the number of research scientists, assuring their training and
improving working conditions, and providing computer systems, vehicles and
additional equipment for laboratories.



- 18 -
Development of Eight Priority Crop Research Programs
4.06     For all crops research work would be carried out in the context of
the farming system taking into account recent information contained in an IAV
study "Adoption des techniques culturales ameliorees sur cer6ales" initiated
by the Bank and financed by UNDP (June 1987). In addition INRA would: (a)
seek, whenever possible, to contract research work to external organizations
on a similar basis as the ongoing contracts with SASMA and the Royal estates;
and (b) promote financing of research work by the private sector as has
already been done for cotton, forage crops, sugar beet, palm tree, rural
development projects and ORMVAs. Manpower and financial resources of INRA
would be redirected to concentrate on the following eight research priorities
(Impl. Vol. Annex I). Cereals: since agriculture in the arid zones
(including barley, bread wheat and durum wheat) is already covered by an
efficient joint project with INRA/USAID in Settat (Impl. Vol. Annex I,
Appendix 7), the program would focus on bread wheat (1 million ha) but only in
good rainfed areas. Work would be managed by Meknes' CRRA in liaison with ENA
and would concentrate on genetic improvement, packages of cultural practices,
resistance to Septoria, different types of rust and nematodes and
technological quality of grain. Rainfed Forage crops (100,000 ha): based in
Rabat, this program, cofinanced by GTZ until end-1990 (Impl. Vol. Annex I,
Appendix 6), is expected to be extended for a second phase to coincide with
the Bank's project and would be enlarged to cover five CRRAs. It would focus
on improvement of forage production systems based on fallow or vetch/oat, and
include choice of species and varieties, cultural practices, rotations,
conservation of vegetative material, seed production, forage quality and range
improvement. Olives (290.000 ha): based in Meknes and Marrakech the program
would focus on improvement of trees, selection of local clones, resistance to
tuberculosis and improvement of cultural systems. Oilseeds (50,000 ha) are
one of the main priorities of the Government due to an important deficit of
vegetable oil in Morocco. The program would be based in Meknes and focus on
selection of sunflower, rape and safflower. It would include introduction and
breeding of varieties, and cultural practices, inventory of virus diseases,
seed storing and seed and oil conservation. Fruit trees (180,000 ha):
programs would be based in Meknes and Marrakech and focus on quality and yield
improvement of hardy species for almonds and figs; yield improvement of
varieties of plums and apricots grown for agro-industry; yield and quality for
high return species such as apples, peaches, cherries; tree crop protection
with special studies on capnode and crown gall and resistance to the bayoud
for date palm. Citrus (70,000 ha): research would be based in Kenitra and
carried out through joint research programs with IAV Hassan II and SASMA to
address variety diversification, improvement of production techniques, use of
inputs and pest control. Vegetables (150,000 ha): Research would be carried
out through joint programs with IAV Hassan II and SASMA in the Souss region
for early production and at El Jadida for main season production. Programs
would focus on technological and genetic improvement of seeds, cultural
practices, pest and disease control and improvement of tomato production in
greenhouses. Red Meat (about 12 million sheep): research would concentrate
on sheep through joint research programs carried out with IAV Hassan II in
Rabat and ENA in Meknes. Work would focus on genetic improvement and
industrial breeding of local breeds Sardi, Timahdite and Dman, sheep feeding,
grazing ratios on temporary pastures and herd management according to feeding
systems.



- 19 -
4.07     Implementation of the above research programs would be supported by
the program through financing of additional research scientists and research
technicians, strong technical assistance, construction of laboratories,
warehouses, and offices, vehicles, equipment and additional operating costs
(spare parts, material, fuel and farm inputs).
Strengthening of four CRRAs
4.08     Research programs supported and developed under the program would be
implemented by the four following CRRAs: Meknes for bread wheat, oil seeds,
olive, fruit trees, forages and livestock; Marrakech for olive, fruit trees,
forages, livestock and date palm; Kenitra for citrus and Agadir for citrus,
early vegetables and livestock, and two central stations in Rabat for forage
crops and red meat (sheep). The research program for vegetables would be
developed in the CRRA of Settat which is financed by USAID. To assist the
above CRRAs which were part of the highly scattered and large research network
managed by INRA without appropriate financing, the program would include the
rehabilitation of the centers facilities, construction of additional
laboratory facilities, replacement of most equipment and vehicles and
provision for additional staff and operating expenses.
Rehabilitation of 22 Research Farms
4.09     The 22 farms selected to remain with INRA (para. 3.07) were chosen to
represent the main bio-climatical areas ot the country in order to carry out
INRA's research programs, selection, evaluation of selected plants, agronomic
and plant protection trials and seed multiplication for foundation seeds GO to
G3 in locations representing the different major growing areas. In order to
ensure an efficient support to research work development, the program would
include: (a) rehabilitation and extension of farm facilities; (b)
rehabilitation of existing wells and some additional new shallow wells and
irrigation equipment; (c) renewal and complementing of agricultural equipment;
(d) specific equipment for trial plots; (e) purchase of vehicles; (f)
employment of additional engineers for experimentation; and (g) additional
operating costs.
Establishment of Research/Development Units within the 8 CRRAs
4.10     Up to now, liaison between research and farmers remains unorganized
and is ad hoc, relying mainly on local personal contacts. To improve that
situation, permanent exchanges between research, agricultural training,
extension services and farmers at regional level would be organized under the
program through the creation of a research/development unit at each of the 8
CRRAs covering the whole country. These small units, including 1 engineer and
2 technical agents, would liaise primarily with the SMS teams at DPAs and
ORMVAs in order to improve communication between extension staff and research
scientists and participate in organizing extension staff training. They would
provide technical support to SMS teams for preparing messages and training of
extension agents and would constitute joint teams with extension for
implementation of field trials at farmers' level. At the same time, closer
contacts with farmers would improve research staff knowledge about farmers'
requirements and reactions to new proposed techniques or inputs. The program
would include: (a) staffing of the units; (b) vehicles; (c) equipment; and (d)
additional operating expenses.
33 ISE



- 20 -
Strengthening of the Information Division
4.11     As discussed in para. 3.09 above, a large amount of work is being
stored at INRA, but lack of adequate organization and financing makes it
unavailable to research staff. External information is insufficient and funds
for publishing research works are inexistent. To remedy that situation, the
information and documentation service would be strengthened, and the program
would provide for: (a) extension of the Rabat library; (b) printing equipment
to ensure publication of research work; (c) computer equipment to prepare and
analyse basic data and liaise with international iniormation research centers;
(d) purchase of scientific books and subscriptions to scientific publications;
(e) additional staff; (f) vehicles; (g) office equipment of the unit; and (h)
additional operating expenses (Impl. Vol. Annex 3).
Trainina and Technical Assisvance
4.12     An important training program would be carried out abroad to upgrade
staff skills in order to meet scientific requirements for sound implementation
of the new research by objective programs, developmert of CRRAs, and
strengthening of INRA's financial management and documentation.  The program
would support these components through provision of two year fellowships for
research scientists to obtain a master degree, one year fellowships to prepare
a DEA (Dipl8me d'etudes approfondies) and short-term fellowships abroad to
improve management skills or some specific techniques for engineers and
technicians (Impl. Vol. Annex III). Along with strengthening existing links
between INRA and international research agencies (para. 3.12) management would
seek twinning with similar institutions or universities in Europe and America
in order to develop exchanges of views on methods, technologies and research
policies and benefit from progress already achieved abroad. Some university
professors would also be financed under the project as consultants to
supervise preparation of theses by INRA's research scientists preparing master
degrees. The subject of these theses would require INRA's general director's
agreement and exclusively address Moroccan problems.
4.13     Due to the low number of available research scientists (para. 3.11)
and their present frequent assignments for managerial work, an important
contribution would be required from technical assistance to start up the
research programs and train new staff to manage and run the research programs
for the eight priority crops (para. 4.06). A total of 7 consultants for a 4
year term would be required according to TOR defined in Annex I, Appendix 9:
two for bread wheat (genetic and cropping systems), one for oil seeds
(agronomist/plant protection), one for olives, (agronomist/plant protection);
one for fruit trees, (agronomist/plant protection); two for livestock (sheep
specialists). Two consultants for forage development would be provided
separately by GTZ under extension of its ongoing cooperation with INRA
(para 4.06). Consultants would also be provided to help design and implement
financial management of INRA and the information, documentation and publishing
division activities.
(2) Extension Services
Establishment of an Extension Service at MARA
4.14     The extension system needs a clear and simple organization to be



- 21 -
efficient. To that purpose, a specific division would be maintained within
DVRA for "Vulgarisation et perfectionnement des cadres" (Organigram 2). Its
activities would be concentrated exclusively on extension with no involvement
with land reform nor input distribution tasks. Extension would also approach
farm development as a whole, including livestock and external grazing
systems. At DPA level and in five ORMVAs (Haouz, Sousa Massa, Tadla, Moulouya
and Doukkala), where the 100 program CTs and the 100 program CMVs would be
located respectively, the present "bureaux de vulgarisation" would be upgraded
to a "Service de la vulgarisation et de l'organisation professionnelle"
(SVOP). Each SVOP would include one extension bureau divided into three
technical units for contact group extension, mass extension, and women
extension. In order to provide technical support to the extension staff,
subject matter specialist (SMS) teams, drawn from DPA/ORMVA technical
departments and INRA, would be created in each DPA or ORMVA and report to
their manager. Regional SMS activities would be coordinated and supervised by
an SMS team attached to the DVRA extension division in Rabat and reporting to
the extension division chief. The program would include: (a) additional
staff; (b) vehicles and equipment; and (c) additional operating expenses of
the "bureaux de vulgarisation" and SMS teams (Impl. Vol. Annex II).
Implementation of the New Extension Systems.
4.15     The program would implement two approaches adapted to the main
ecological conditions of the country: (a) the contact group system, an
adaptation of the T&V system to Moroccan conditions which has successfully
been tested within four Bank financed projects and 23 pilot CTs, would be
implemented in a total of 100 CTs located in good and medium rainfall areas
and 100 CMVs in irrigation schemes for which technical packages are available
and potential development exists (para. 2.03); (b) the researci/development
method, also T&V based but with the major emphasis on research/extension
linkages, would be applied in the low and erratic rainfall areas (mountains,
center south and south) where improved cultural practices currently
recommended by research are still too risky to be promoted and technical
packages need to be developed. Three CTs would be chosen on a test basis for
the first five year phase of the project. The research development system
would be more research oriented and would give more emphasis to a permanent
dialogue between extension, research staff and farmers in order to jointly
define and evaluate constraints to development, study alternatives to remedy
the situation and carry out experiments at village scale before analyzing and
disseminating the results. To support implementation of the above, the
program would include: (a) additional staff for the CT/CMV "bureaux de
vulgarisation" including three units covering contact group extension, mass
extension and women's extension; (b) construction and equipping of (i) offices
at CTs and ORMVA's subdivisions level for the chiefs of extension units
(bureaux de vulgarisation); (ii) offices at sub/CT and CMV level for extension
agents; and (iii) meeting rooms; construction of houses with adequate
connections to utilities for extension chiefs and extension agents who have to
live close to their working areas and would therefore be located in CTs or
sub/CTs; (c) rehabilitation and connection to utilities of existing houses;
(d) additional equipment for demonstration, and audio-visual activities to
fully equip CTs from completed Bank projects; (e) vehicles; and (f) additional
operating expenses of the extension services in the CTs and CMVs. A summary
of physical targets and costs over the 10 year period is given in Table 4.1
and in Chart 1, and details are in the Implementation Volume, Annex II.



- 22 -
Extension for Women
4.16          Since the definition of any development program for women's
extension should await completion of the ongoing study with FAO (para. 3.17),
the program would make available its training centers for training of women
and a budget item which could be used for training programs once clearly
defined. Training activities are expected so include livestock management and
some aspects of crop production (para. 3.17).
Staff Training
4.17     The program would provide for basic and on-the-job training of
extension agents and chiefs of extension units at CT and at subdivision
level. It would be carried out in three regional centers with a capacity of
about 780 trainees. Refresher training sessions for extension agents at the
CTs/CMVs would be carried out on a fortnightly basis by SMS and external
specialists according to the requirements of the season's activities.
On-the-job training of medium level extension staff would be carried out by
CNERV and would concern chiefs of extension services at DPA, chiefs of the
"bureau de vulgarisation" at the CTs/CMVs, staff of SMS units at DPA/ORMVA
level and the seven SMS at headquarters (DVRA). The ongoing program providing
training for trainers at CNERV would be pursued under the project. To ensure
efficient, adapted and thorough training of field extension staff, the
program, which should be repeated over the years, would include: (a)
construction and equipment of one new training center and equipment of two
existing centers for extension agents - access to these centers would be
available to all MARA extension staff with priority for the program staff and
women training; (b) personnel; (c) vehicles; and (d) training activities.
Training of medium-level managerial staff at CNERV in Meknes, would be carried
out under contract (Impl. Vol. Annex III).
Audio-Visual Units
4.18     While over 901 of the resources allocated to the extension
development program would support visits to farmer groups through the contact
group system and the research development approach, some resources would be
allocated to making better use of the existing audio-visual network within
DVRA to support extension training and activities. This would include the
central unit at DVRA with responsibility and equipment for audio-visual
material production, and the audio-visual units in each DPA/ORMVA and the
CTs/CMVs mobile units. The priority would be to make full use of the existing
infrastructure and equipment under the first phase, and its successful
implementation would be the condition of any expansion of the program under
Phase II. The program would include: (a) additional staff to carry out
audio-visual activities; (b) construction and equipment of offices;
construction of houses for extension agents responsible for audio-visual
extension in the field; and a workshop in Rabat; (c) vehicles, some of them
equipped with audio-visual equipment at regional level; (d) additional
audio-visual equipment; and (e) additional operating expenses (Impl. Vol.
Annex III). The capital expend:tures would be mainly programmed in the latter
half of the development program (see Chart I).



- 23 -
Establishment of Monitoring and Evaluation Units at DVRA and DPA
4.19     Presently, when it exists, monitoring and evaluation is not carried
out on a systematic basis. With the development of well-organized new
extension systems, it is important for DVRA management and DPA/ORMVA managers
to be kept well informed of activities to be able to take timely action to
ensure the system is working as planned. To this purpose, monitoring and
evaluation units would be established at each DPA/ORMVA while DVRA would
coordinate country monitoring and evaluation operations and prepare
country-wide surveys. The program would include: technical assistance staff
to train units and help to design activities programs, equipment and operating
costs of the units (Impl. Vol. Annex II).
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
4.20     Major technical assistance for extension is not required because the
methods proposed are well understood and accepted within DVRA. Requirements
would be limited to: (a) 5 man-months for the three training centers in order
to define tasks of the new trainers and related pedagogic objectives, discuss
training objectives with SMS, check training programs prepared by SMS and
their implementation, evaluate and improve the training components, prepare
refresher course programs, identify training components for engineers to be
trained at CNERV for communication and technical organization; (b) 8
man-months for production of audio-visual and scripto-visual material; and (c)
6 man-months for establishment and follow-up of the monitoring and evaluation
systim. In addition the program would include fellowships for staff training
at all levels (Impl. Vol. Annexe III).
D. Program Implementation in Physical Terms and Cost Estimates
4.21     Implementation in Physical Terms.  Program activities have been
scheduled over a 10-year time period to take into account: (a) heavy financial
constraints due to the present very tight financial situation of the country;
*      (b) time needed to reorganize institut:ons: restructure INRA and DVRA, create
an extension division, create DPA exAtension services, create "bureaux de la
vulgarisation" at CT/CMV level and establish a new financing system for INRA;
(c) staff availability and training needs; and (d) time required between
bidding and completion of buildings and equipment. The physical implementation
of the 10-year program is shown in the following Chart.
4.22     Cost.  The total cost of the 10-year program based on 1988 prices
(Table 4.1), including investments, additional operating and maintenance cost,
taxes, duties and physicai contingencies, but excluding price contingencies,
is estimated at about DH 1,247 million (US$156.7 million) of which about
DH 511 million (US$64.0 million) in foreign exchange. Taxes and duties amount
to about 18b of the total costs. Physical contingencies have been estimated
at about 10% of investment base costs.



0                                  .
I           Ill
I                         a I         111                     __
Ii                                _____                    U
0.                                             a                       II
                                     _____                   _____
*                                            .         .
C.    0El           E    .    .
*                             ________  .   .
:                                                                a
n
i                       _______________ 3 
ji               a
Ii.
I
U              I%    I!
I
I
Jj!jt;!iiiIJj1j1JjUJiIIiIIf          I t:' it t j         iii
I          III   h              I



- 25 -
Table 4.1: COST OF THE 10 YEAR PROGRAM
Component                                         DR Million    US$ Million   %
Research /a
1.  Strengthening of management and operations        12.5           1.6        2
2.  Development of regional centers (CRRA)            36.3           4.5        6
3.  Priority programs                                177.2         22.2        32
4.  Rehabilitation of experimental farms             104.8          13.1       18
5.  Creation of research/development units             4.8           0.6        1
6. Development of information/documentation
and publishing division                         15.5          1.9         3
7.  Fellowship, technical assistance                  74.1           9.3       13
8.  Creation of coordination unit                      2.4           0.3        -
9.  Replacement vehicles for 2nd phase                17.7           2.2        3
10. Extension of operating cost of Phase I           121.2          15.2       22
Subtotal                                      566.5          70.9       100
Extension /a
1. Establishment of extension structures
MARA/DPA/ORMVA                                  52.7          6.6         8
2.  Implementation of new extension systems          348.7         43.6        51
3.  Integration of Bank project extension             19.8           2.5        3
4.  Establishment of training centers                 38.5           4.8        6
5.  Development of audio-visual services              54.8           6.9        8
6.  Creation of monitoring and evaluation units        2.4           0.3        -
7.  Technical assistance                               2.1           0.2        -
8.  Creation of coordination unit                      1.0           0.1        -
9.  Replacement vehicles for 2nd phase                46.2           5.8        7
10. Extension of operating expenses of Phase I    120.0             15.0       18
Subtotal extension                            680.2          85.8       100
TOTAL COST        1,246.7         156.7
/a Expressed in 1988 prices and including physical contingencies of 10X.



- 26 -
V. FINANCING AND ADMIMTRATION OF
THE FIRST FIVE YEAR TIME SLICE PROJECT
A. The Five Year Project
Prolect Rationale and Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01     It is proposed to include part of the first five year time slice of
the government's ten year development program for research and extension
(paras. 4.01-4.03) under the project. This would support the establishment of
a new organization for INRA and DVRA and fully equipping support services to
ensure a sound, reliable and efficient basis to develop research and extension
programs in the future. Emphasis would be put on developing and improving
liaison between research, extension and farmers which is a necessary condition
to ensure proper orientation of research work and production of
recommendations adapted to farmers' needs. To that purpose, over the first
five year tranche, both agencies would: (a) be strengthened, staffed and
equipped as proposed in the program to meet the project scope; (b) be provided
with adequate funds to cover operating costs to ensure smooth and regular
activities development; and (c) start up a first tranche of the development
program in the field.
5.02     During the past three years, the Bank has played an active role in
development of research and extension in Morocco, through supporting master
plans preparation for both sectors and related key institutional reforms under
ASAL-I and II. In the extension sector, particularly, new techniques have
been developed through the introduction of the contact group system based on
Training and Visit within one completed (Loukkos 1848-MOR) and three ongoing
(Fes-Karia-Tissa 1602-MOR, Middle Atlas 2082-MOR and Oulmes Rommani 2217-MOR)
rural development projects located in six DPAs: Fes, Chefchaouen, Meknes,
Ifrane, Khenifra and Khemisset. The contact group system was recently
extended to the nine ORMVAs through the implementation of the Large Scale
Irrigation Improvement Project (2656-MOR) in Moulouya, Gharb, Loukkos,
Doukkala, Tadla, Haouz, Tafilalet, Souss-Massa and Ouarzazate. The Bank also
closely supported the implementation of 28 pilot CTs throughout the country in
which the same system is applied on an experimental basis by DVRA. In the
meantime, master plans were prepared for research and extension by INRA and
DVRA. These plans brought to light the strengths and weaknesses of the
institutions and were therefore used as a basis to define the needs for key
reforms. The project addresses the development and transfer of improved
technology while the ASAL I and II loans (paras. 2.05-2.06) tackle the
improvement of supporting inputs supply services for seed, fertilizer and
pesticides, credit organization, and vetinerary services as well as price
policy. Bank support is justified because it would be available at a time
when the government is showing strong interest in improving its critical
financial situation and trying to alleviate the burden of staple commodities
imports. In addition, only the Bank can provide the necessary financing and
monitoring capacity to carry out such a large project.



- 27 -
5.03     Research.  The project would include the following:
(a) Staffing, equipment and operating expenses for INRA's headquarters
(para. 4.05);
(b) implementation of five priority research programa (bread wheat,
forage crops, livestock, oil seeds and olives) which require the most
urgent development (para. 4.06);
(c)  extension and development of the two main CRRAs in Meknes and
Marrakech which would monitor the priority programs work in the field
(para. 4.08);
(d) rehabilitation of 13 research farms necessary to carry out
experimentation of the five programs in appropriate bio-climatic
areas (para. 4.09);
(e) establishment of the 8 research/development units to provide focal
points for improved research-extension linkage. The units would
liaise with extension and coordinate field work and technical
training in all CRRAs (para. 4.10);
(f) reinforcement of INRA's information division to improve documentation
and publishing facilities in order to make available to research
scientists all information required for their research work and
publish their findings (para. 4.11);
(g) fellowships and technical assistance to start up the new priority
programs, fill the gap left by lack of qualified research scientists
and back up new trainees after completion of their training and
during taking over research operations (paras. 4.12-4.13); and
(h) establishment of a coordination unit which would centralize
information necessary to the Bank and maintain contact with project
operations at field level (para. 6.21).
5.04     Extension:  The project would include the following:
(a)  reorganization of the central and provincial extension organization
of MARA (para. 4.14);
(b) establishment, in selected CTs and CMVs, of new extension systems:
(i) the T&V based contact group system for irrigated and good rainfed
zones in 23 CTs and 19 CMVs covering about 210,000 farmers of which
63,000 would benefit from contact group extension; and (ii) the
research/development system for three CTs in low rainfall areas
covering about 30,000 farmers. In addition, the project would take
over 17 ongoing pilot CTs covering about 200,000 farmers of which
about 40,000 would benefit from contact group extension and,
progressively after completion, the area of ongoing Bank financed
agricultural developmen: projects including 14 CTs, involving about
130,000 farmers of which 26,000 would benefit from contact group
extension (para. 4.15);



- 28 -
(c) organizi.ng a staff training system operating through three training
ctnters (two existing and one to be constructed) which would be
available for all extension agents including women agents; while
medium and high level staff would be trained under contract with
specialized external agencies (para. 4.17);
(d) reorganization and strengthening of the audio-visual network, which
would provide support to extension activities (para. 4.18);
(e) establishment of monitoring and evaluation policies and procedures at
DVRA and DPA/ORMVA level to keep extension management updated on
project operations and results and allow prompt requested adjustments
(para. 4.19);
(f) fellowships and consultants for establishment of three centers'
training programs, implementation of an audio-visual system and of
monitoring and evaluation activities (para. 4.20); and
(g) establishment of a coordination unit at DVRA which would centralize
information necessary to the Bank and ensure contact with project
operations in the field (para. 6.21).
B. Cost Estimate
5.06     The cost of the 5 year time slice project including price
contingencies is estimated at about US$60.8 million equivalent of which about
US$27.1 million in foreign exchange. Price contingencies were calculated
assuming domestic inflation rate for local prices of 5.5X in 1989 and 5.02
thereafter, and for international prices 5.32 through 1990 and 4.1X
thereafter. Price contingencies equal 13% of base costs. The project Cost
Table 5.1 shown below includes the same percentage of taxes and duties (181)
and physical contingencies (101 on civil works and equipment) as for the
10-year development program:



- 29 -
Table 5.1: COST OF THE 5 YEAR PROJECT
- -ON Million-----   S of    -----U$ illion-----  foreign
Local Foreign  Total Component Local  Foreign  Total Exchange X
lSacrh (Base Costs)
1. Strengthening of mnagement and operations    3.4     4.0    8.2       4%      0.4      0.6   1.0      59
2. Development of regional centers (CRRA)      13.9     9.1   23.0       11%      1.8     1.1   2.9      40
3. Priority programs                           36.2    21.3   57.5       26S     4.5      2.7   7.2      37
4. Rehabilitation of experimental farms        28.7    25.6   54.3       27%     3.6      3.2   6.8      47
S. Creation of research/development units       2.8      1.9    4.7       2%     0.4      0.2   0.6      41
6. Oevelopment of information/documentation
and publishing division                      9.1     4.9   14.0        7%      1.1     0.6   1.7       35
7. Fellowships, technical assistance            4.4    36.0   40.4       20%     0.5      4.5   5.0      89
0. Creation of coordination unit                Qt      LA      14        jS     LI       Q.1   L2      22
Subtotal                                  ".4   104.2  203.6    100%    12.4    13.0  25.4           51
Physical contingencies                   5.8      8.8   14.6               0.7     1.1   1.8       60
Price contingencies                     M.2 .LZ  U      via                L        IA    Li       Ifl
Total Research                           118.4   126.0  244.4               14.8    15.7  30.5       52
Extefsion (Base costs)
1. Establishment of extension structures
KARA/UPA/ORMVA                            17.4    11.2   28.6       14%      2.2      1.4   3.6      39
2. bIpeanetation of new extension systems      51.6    25.2   76.8       37%     6.5      3.1   9.6      33
3. Integration of Dank project extension       15.3    10.9   26.2       13%     1.9      1.4   3.3      42
4. Establishment of training centers           14.3     3.7   18.0        9%      1.7     0.5   2.2      21
S. Reorganization of audio-visual services      7.2     5.4   12.6        6%     0.9      0.7   1.6      43
6. Creation of monitoring and evaluation units   1.S    0.8    2.3        1%     0.2      0.1   0.3      35
7. Technical assistance/tollowships             2.1     6.2    8.3       4%      0.2      0.8   1.0      75
S. Creation of coordination unit                0.7     0.2    0.9        -%     0.1      -      0.1     25
9. Integration of pilot CTs                    1i 8     i      U.i       in LS 25            L  L        41
Subtotal                                 129.9    77.4  207.3    100%    16.2        9.7  25.9       37
Physical contingencies                   3.9      3.8    7.7               0.5     0.5   1.0       49
Price contingencies                     18.0      L     226                La.     L.A   LA        2
Total Extension                          151.8    90.8  242.6               18.9    11.4  30.3       37
Total Project
Total base cost                            229.3   181.6  410.9              28.6    22.7  S1.3
Total physical contingencies                 9.7    12.6   22.3                1.2     1.6   2.8
Total price contingencies                   31.2    22.6   53.8               3.9      2.8   6.7
Total Pro iQet Cot                            I?"0.2   216    4R7.0             33.7    27.   ALA        il
C. lan c
5.07      A Bank loan of US$28.0 million is proposed to be made to the
Government to finance about 541 total costs net of taxes. Given the expected
participation by other donors, this would result in the Bank financing 511 of
foreign exchange and about 421 of local cos.. Government confirmed at
negotiations that it also expects to obtain by June 1990 at the latest,
parallel cofinancing totalling the equivalent of US$15.6 million, for 431 of
the foreign exchange cost and 121 of local costs. This cofinancing, for which
negotiations were well advanced, would comprise: (i) from KfW (Federal
Republic of Germany), US$8.i million equivalent to finance the two research
centers and 13 research farms; and (ii) bilateral grant aid from France and
331 5



- 30 -
the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) for technical assistance and fellowships
totalling US$7.1 million equivalent. Government confirmed that if necessary
it would finance the first year's investments for the research centers and
farms. Funds for technical assistance would not be required before June 30,
1990. The government would finance the balance of the US$17.2 million
including US$8.9 million taxes, US$1.7 million of project foreign costs, and
US$6.6 million of project local costs. The Bank loan would be for 20 years
including a 5 year grace period with interest at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The following Table 5.2 summarizes the proposed financing plan:
Table 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ M)
---Percentage of Project
Local   Foreign   Total   Net Costs  Foreign Exchange
World Bank                 14.2    13.8       28.0           54             51
Cofinancing                 4.0    11.6       15.6           30             43
Government                  6.6      1.7       8.3           16              6
Net Project Cost           24.8    27.1       51.9          100            100
Taxes and duties            8.9                8.9
Total Project Cost                  27.1      60.8
5.08     The government would earmark the proceeds of the loan and its own
financing for INRA and DVRA. Funds for thle two agencies would be earmarked
within their respective annual budgets.
Executing Agency                US$ M Equivalent
INRA                            30.5
DVRA                             30.3
Total                           60.8
D. Procurement
5.09     Procurement would be carried out separately by the project agencies
INRA and DVRA for the goods, works and services included in their respective
components as described in paras. 5.03 and 5.04 and Table 5.1. Procurement
arrangements are described below and summarized in Table 5.3:



- 31 -
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS /a
(US$ million))
Project Elements                   Procurement Methods
ICB       LCB        Other          NA    Total
Costs
Civil works                -        9.2                     -         9.2
(4.5)                             (4.5)
Equipment, vehicles        7.5      5.7        3.4          -        16.6
(4.7)    (2.8)      (2.3)                  (9.8)
Technical assistance,
Fellowships and          -        -          0.8          7.1       7.9
Research contracts                          (0.5)        (0.7)     (1.2)
Incremental Operating
Costs inc. Personnel    -         7.7        6.6         12.8      27.1
(4.1)      (4.0)      ( 4.4)    (12.5)
Total                    7.5     22.6       10.8         19.9      60.8
(4.7)   (11.4)      (6.8)        (5.1)    (28.0)
.=== 
/a  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
5.10     International Competitive Bidding.  Ten separate contracts for
laboratory, computer. and audio-vislial equipment (US$4.5 million) and vehicles
(US$3.0 million) would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Items procured under ICB would be in accordance with Bank guidelines
published in May 1985. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would be grat:..ad a
margin of preference equal to 15% of CIF bid price of the imported goods or
the actual custom duties and import taxes whichever are lower.
5.11     Local Competitive Bidding procedures in Morocco are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
Project. The major international makes are well represented in Morocco and
LCB is an adequate procedure for procuring minor machinery, tools and
miscellaneous equipment. Experience in completed and ongoing Bank-financed
projects in Morocco shows that only very large civil works (generally more
than US$10 million each) can attract foreign contractors who have no Moroccan
office, due to the competitiveness of local and foreign contractors
established in Morocco and the high mobilization costs for foreign contractors
established outside Morocco. The small size and the scattered nature of the
Project civil works throughout the country would not be of interest to foreign
contractors. Consequently, LCB would be used for all civil works, for
laboratory equipment costing the equivalent of US$200,000 or less up to an
aggregate of US$1.8 million, and for agricultural and office equipment
regardless of cost, for a total approximate cost of US$22.6 million. For
reasons of efficiency, purchase of certain vehicles (required in small lots by
widely dispersed extension centers) costing the equivalent of US$200,000 or
less and aggregating not more than US$2.0 million during the project period,
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding



- 32 -
advertised locally open to all eligible bidders under the Bank Guidelines.
Local competitive bidding procedures to be employed under the project are
those generally used by the Government but with certain modifications to
ensure that they are consistent with the needs for efficiency and economy, and
are acceptable to the Bank. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that
procurement under the proposed project would be carried out under procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
5.12     Other procedures.  Motorcyles (also purchased in small quantities by
widely dispersed extension centers) aggregating not more thar US$1.1 million,
spare parts for vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 per contract and aggregrating not more than US$2.6 million
equivalent, as well as goods readily available off-the-shelf such as
agricultural inputs, office supplies and small equipment, laboratory chemicals
or specialized items costing less than US$10,000 and aggregating no more than
US$6.2 million, would be procured through local shopping based on at least
three quotations. Incremental operating expenses include US$3.0 million for
purchase of fuel for vehicles according to the usual procedure for fuel
purchase used by government. INRA's research programs to be carried out by
other research agencies aggregating US$0.8 million would be contracted on a
sole source basis according to 1981 Bank Guidelines for use of consultants.
Trials and demonstrations would be procured under negotiated contracts or
force account.
5.13     Consultants totalling about US$0.8 million would be recruited
according to qualifications, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Bank, in line with 1981 Bank guidelines for use of consultants.
5.14     Contract Review.  Due to the large area covered by the project whose
components are scattered throughout the country over about 70 sites and the
nature of works that will complement existing infrastructure and equipment, a
large number of very small contracts would be necessary to cover construction
and purchases and the number of contracts subject to Bank review would be
therefore lower than usual. Including the use of aoreed bidding documents to
be used by the project for civil works, equipment and vehieles under ICB and
LCB and the review of all bidding packages for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 and bidding packages for goods costing the equivalent
of US$200,000, it is estimated that 782 of the total value of goods would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. Sample
bidding documents to be used by INRA and DVRA for civil woris and goods
purchased under ICB and LCB will be finalized with Governmernt prior to the
start of major procurement to ensure that bidding documents used conform to
the Bank's requirements. Contracts not covered by prior review procedures
would be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract award,
except those under SOE disbursement arrangements (para. 5.17).
E. Disbursements
5.15     Disbursement Schedule.  The proposed Bank loan of US$28 million which
would finance a time slice of 5 years has been estimated to be disbursed over
a period of seven fiscal years. The detailed schedule of disbursement is
given in Table 3 and summarized below.



- 33 -
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Years
Disbursements      1990      1991    1992      1993      1994     1995      1996
-        ------ US$M--------------
Annual              2.0       1.5      4.5      6.0       6.0      5.5       2.5
Cumulative          2.0      3.5       8.0      14.0     20.0     25.5      28.0
5.16     Disbursement procedures.  Disbursements would be made against the
following categories of expenditures:
Category                            Loan Amount  S of Exgenditures to be Financed
US$ M
(1) Civil works           (a) INRA       1.8       86% of total expenditures
(b) DVRA      2.2
(2) Equipment and         (a) INRA       3.6       100% of foreign expenditures and
Vehicles              (b) DVRA       5.4       80% of local expenditures for
items priced locally
(3) Incremental /1
Operating Costs       (a) INRA       3.2       801 during calendar years
(b) DVRA      7.6        1989&1990; 701 during calendar
years 1991&1992; and
50% thereafter
(4) Technical Assistance (a) INRA        0.4        100%
Fellowships, and      (b) DVRA       0.8
Research contracts
(5) Unallocated                          3.0
Total                               28.0
5.17     Disbursements would be made upon receipt by the Bark of fully
documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent (800,000 Dirhams) and for eligible incremental operating costs, for
which disbursements would be made against statement of expenditures (SOE)
certified by the executing agency involved. Supporting documentation for SOEs
would be retained until one year after Bank receipt of the last audit report
for the project, by the implementing agencies concerned and made available for
review by the Bank during supervision. The annual audits of the project
accounts would include a separate opinion on disbursements made under SOE
procedures and the Special Account (para. 5.18). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that government would provide each year required funds to ensure
/1 Materials, fuel, spare parts, farm inputs, services for demonstrations and
trials and travel allowances.



- 34 -
full implementation of all project activities in that year and that annual
investment programs for research and extension would be sent to the Bank for
comment prior to November 30 each year.
5.18     Special account.  To improve the efficient and timely implementation
of the Project, the Borrower would establish a special account in Dirhams in
the Treasury (Ministry of Finance) to be used as a revolving fund to finance
eligible expenditures corresponding to the Bank's share of the four-month
average project needs. Its authorized allocation would be DH 15 million. The
special account would be replenished by applications submitted wherever one
third of the authorized amount has been utilized. Applications for direct
payments and for special commitments may be submitted provided they are
amounts equivalent to US$100,000. Government counterpart funds would be
secured in a timely manner through appropriate budget allocations.
5.19     Retroactive Financing of up to US$1,500,000 against payments made for
eligible expenditures before the date of the Loan Agreement but after July 1,
1988, is proposed to cover project actions already started.
5.20     The disbursement period is consistent with disbursement profiles for
agriculture projects in the EMENA Region which generally indicate that eight
years are required for full disbursement. In this case, the time slice nature
of the project (the original Moroccan proposal of a 5-year project was
expanded to a 10-year program in view of possible delays from the original
proposal) indicates that disbursement over seven fiscal years is consistent
with experience. The estimated disbursement schedule from the proposed loan
is shown in Table 3.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01     Project implementing agencies.  INRA would be responsible for the
research component of the project and the beneficiary of project financing.
DVRA would be responsible for implementing the extension component in the
rainfed and irrigated areas and would channel fudds to the field agencies as
required. INRA's general manager and DVRA's director would be responsible for
the overall management of the project components of their respective
institutions. While day to day technical activities would continue to be
carried out by the separate departments of each institution, liaison with the
Bank would be the responsibility of the project coordination units (para.
6.21).
A. Research
6.02     INRA has been reorganized on the basis of ISNAR's recommendations
(Impl. Vol. Annex I, Appendix 1) following a survey of the institution in late
1983 and related commitments made under ASAL-I and II (Organigram I). In this
organization INRA is managed by a Director General who reports to a Board of
directors. The director general is assisted by a high ranking administrative
officer (inspector general) and a scientific committee (Impl. Vol. Annex I,
Appendix 3) constituted of high ranking scientists external to INRA, including
international specialists, who provide technical guidance and evaluation of
research programs. !inancial monitoring is carried out by the financial
control service of the Ministry of Finance which has a permanently seconded
"agent comptable" to INRA. INRA's activities are managed by four divisions



- 35 -
reporting to the Director General: (a) CRRA's management which covers eight
regional centers; (b) planning and programming (research management); (c)
general administration; and (d) information and training. Independent from
the above divisions but at the same level, a group of seven technical
departments deals with scientific disciplines: plant improvement, phytiatry,
agronomy, livestock, agro-industry, environment and socio-economy.
Decentralization of research work would necessitate the strengthening of eight
CRRAs and transfer to the provinces of activities presently carried out at
Headquarters (para. 4.05).
6.03     INRA's headquarters has responsibility for technical, administrative
and financial management of the institution and liaison with government and
external agencies. The central office would be responsible for implementing
the project through restructuring and decentralization, implementation of the
new research by objectives policy, arbitration of eventual conflicts, audits,
control and training. Given the tight budgetary situation in the country,
additional staffing and equipment under the proposed project would be limited
to: (a) the research units necessary to the development of priority research
programs which already employ 94b of high level staff and 90% of technicians;
and (b) key supporting services such as financial management,
information/documentation, research/development units and the coordination
unit.
6.04     Prosramming by obiectives.  Priority research work as defined by MARA
(para. 4.06) is carried out through research by objectives programs, the first
of these being implemented with ISNAR participation. To achieve this, the
INRA departments which were previously organized by disciplines, crops and
cropping systems are being replaced by multidisciplinary programs focussed on
priority crops. After key research subjects are approved by the INRA Board ov
the basis of recommendations of the Scientific Comamittee (para. 6.02), program
commissions consisting of technical staff from key disciplines have to define
and monitor a comprehensive approach of the problems to be studied. These
proposals are submitted to the director of the Planning and Program Division
for approval. These programs comprise a multidisciplinary package of
complementary operations aiming at producing results suitable for applied
research and extension. Once approved by the director, the programs are
carried out by research teams under management of programs chiefs. Field
implementation remains the CRRA's responsibility. Each year, prior to budget
preparation for the following growing season, an annual scientific and
financial evaluation of the programs' achievements would be carried out by the
programs commission that were responsible for setting up the programs with
participation of beneficiaries of the research work (Impl. Vol. Annex 1,
Appendix 4).
6.05     Development of CRRAs.  Under the overall program, field activities
are being be decentralized to the eight CRRAs (para. 4.08): Rif (Tangiers),
Oriental (Oujda), Gharb (Kenitra), Sais/Middle Atlas (Meknes),
Doukkala/Abda/Chaouia (Settat), Tadla (Afourer), Haouz (Marrakech),
Souss/Samara (Agadir), and three stations (Guich, El Koudia, and Merchouch) of
which two would be covered by the project (Guich and Merchouch). CRRAs are
progressively being developed into strong, viable, pluridisciplinary,
polyvalent and interdependent research centers through which INRA programs
would be executed. CRRAs focus their activities on at least one of INRA's
national programs addressing a priority production relevant to the region.
These programs also include experiments carried out on behalf of other CRRAs



- 36 -
in order to get tests from all agro-ecological areas suitable for the crop
under study. The CRRAs' efficiency is being improved through: (a) increasing
staff of research scientists to about 20 to provide sufficient critical mass
to avoid professional and psychological isolation; (b) extending CRRAs' staff
responsibility to prepare, carry out and analyze research programs defined by
programming commissions; and (c) establishing administrative and financial
management autonomy of the centers. To avoid any overlapping of research and
production activities, trials to be carried out on the 22 research farms would
be managed by the CRRAs on behalf of the relevant research programs (para.
4.09). Farms seed multiplication and crop production would be managed and
accounted separately by a technician especially appointed on each farm.
*      6.06      Proiect Execution.  Research programs of the overall program
including the project (para. 4.06) would be carried out in the following
centers:
Researcb Program    Centers Responsible              Sub-Centers Involved
First Five-Year Time Slice (The Prciect)
Bread wheat          CRRA Meknes 2-
Forage crops         Central station Rabat          CRRAs
Marrakech-Afourer-Settat-
Mekres-Tangier
Red Meat (sheep)    Central station Rabat '         CRRAs
Meknes !/ Marrakech
Agadir, Afourer I/
Oil seeds            CRRA Meknes                    Food technology department
Rabat
Olive                CRRA Meknes                    Food technology department
CRRA Marrakech                Rabat
Second Five-Year Time Slice
Fruit (non citrus)  CRRA Meknes
CRRA Marrakech
Citrus               CRRA Kenitra 3'                IAV (Agadir) 3/ CRRA
Afourer, CRRA Oujda4'
Vegetables           'RRA Agadir/SASMA lo           SASMA Laboratories
CRRA Settat/SASMA             at Casablanca
1/ Joint research program with IAV
2/ Joint research program with ENA Meknes
3/ Joint research program with SASMA
4/ Joint research program with ORMVA Basse Moulaya



- 37 -
Parallel to the above activities, a comprehensive program for aridoculture is
being carried out successfully on the CRRA at Settat (Impl. Vol. Annex 1,
Appendix 7) with the support of USAID, and a forage program is being completed
witb GTZ support at Guich station (Rabat) (Impl. Vol, Annex I, Appendix 6).
The extension of both programs in parallel ts and in coordination with the
project has been agreed between INRA - USAID - and GTZ. INRA plans to
continue to develop its cooperation with external and local research
agencies. It is recommended that new contracts be similar to the satisfactory
ongoing agreements with ENA Meknes for local partners (Impl. Vol. Annex I,
Appendix 5.1) and CIMMYT for international partners (Impl. Vol. Annex I,
Appendix 5.2).
6.07    INRA Personnel Management.  More effective personnel management would
be one of the key elements for INRA's development, since human capital must be
built up and retained. Measures would be taken under the project to: (a)
retain and motivate research scientists to avoid loss of qualified personnel
and slow down the high turnover rate in the regions; (b) reward research
scientists according to their work performance or achievements in order to
develop competition; and (c) minimize the loss of staff trained at INRA's
expense to other agencies or to the private sector. Engineer level staff
salaries were reali.aed with MARA salaries in the 1989 budget and assurances
were obtained at negotiations that proposals for matching the remuneration of
INRA's senior research scientists with university faculty staff involved in
research would be prepared by December 31, 1989, and thereafter promptly
applied upon their approval. In addition, the evaluation system provided for
in the 1985 "statut de chercheur" would be strengthened in order to ensure
fair rewards for good achievements (Impl. Vol. Annex 1, Appendix 10).
6.08     For personnel selected to benefit from fellowships, INRA requires the
beneficiary to work a minimum of eight years for INRA upon return to Morocco
or reimburse the total or proportional cost of studies (Impl. vol. Annex I,
Appendix 10).
6.09     Training and Technical Assistance for Research.  Training under the
project would mainly cover scientific staff, research scientists and
laboratory technicians through financing 17 two-year fellowships for research
scientists to obtain master's degrees, 34 one-year fellowships for DEAs
(Dipl8me d'Etudes Approfondies), 34 four-month fellowships to improve
specialized techniques, 180 man/weeks of fellowships to upgrade skills of
technical personnel of INRA, and 34 man/months of consultants to supervise and
support INRA trainees during preparation of their theses in Morocco (Impl.
Vol. Annex III). In addition to the two specialists provided by GTZ for
livestock (para. 4.13), six consultant specialists would be provided by the
project to help with the work underway on cereals, oil seeds, livestock
(sheep) and olives according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(Impl. Vol. Annex 1, Appendix 9). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the consultant specialists would be employed not later than June 30,
1990. Improvement of INRA's financial management and reorganization would be
supported by 53 man/months of consultants and strengthening of the information
division by 24 man/months of consultants and 5 man/months of fellowships.
Technical assistance and most of fellowships are expected to be financed from
bilateral funds.



- 38 -
6.10     Improvement of INRA's financial management and procedures.  Since
agricultural research is a long term operation involving experiments carried
out over several years and very often overlapping from year to year, any delay
in work implementation can compromise the reliability of final results.
Financing for research has to be secured regularly throughout the year without
interruption to achieve this continuity. With the present budgetary system,
funding gaps for INRA are frequent, so that the present system needs to be
improved. Under the project, important improvements would be introduced in
INRA's and CRRA's financing management and procedures as detailed in Annex 3.
The broad principles of these budgetary improvements have been defined in a
decree to be signed shortly (this follows the policy letter from the Ministry
of Finance in 1986 (ASAL I). They aim at providing adequate and timely
financing to INRA and correcting the relative imbalance between
capital-expenditure, operating expenses and personnel appropriation. In
addition, essential improvements such as computerization of INRA's financial
management, and cost accounting would be introduced under the project. These
measures are being complemented under ASAL II by provisioning INRA's budget
through quarterly budget allocations, simplifying budget processing and
establishing accounting offices within CRRAs. Consultant support would be
provided for implementation of the reorganization (para. 6.09). In the
framework of project preparation, a training program for financial management
has been planned for about 100 staff members of INRA with French bilateral aid
financing. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the new budgeting,
financing and accounting system for INRA, acceptable to the Bank, would be
implemented by Karch 31, 1990. Issuance of the new regulations would be a
condition of effectiveness.
6.11     CRRA financial management.  The CRRAs would have complete autonomy in
budget implementation and would negotiate their budgets directly with
headquarters. According to commitments made under ASAL II, "agents
comptables" would be progressively appointed in each of the 8 CRRAs to enable
them to develop financial autonomy and improve financial procedures (para.
6.05). Budget management and accounting would be monitored by the CRRAs
management division at headquarters and local "agents comptables" who would be
progressively appointed to each CRRA. At regional level research programs
would be financed through specific budgets earmarked within CRRAs' budget.
Research farms would get CRRA financing to execute research experiments
related to headquarters programs or CRRA specific work, while other operations
such as seed production and agricultural production would be self-financed,
managed and accounted separately (para. 6.05). INRA would continue to provide
required financing for these operations from its own budget if farms do not
become self-sufficient. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: Mi)
three "agents comptables" would be appointed in the CRRAs of Meknes, Settat
and Marrakech prior to December 31, 1989; and (ii) separate accounting for
crop production and seed multiplication would be established in the 22
research farms prior to March 31, 1990 (para. 6.05).
B. Extension
6.12     DVRA organization.  Under the Project, DVRA would be reorganized to
provide a clear and independent organization for agricultural extension
(Organigram 2 and Impl. Vol. Annex II). The DVRA manager would have direct
line of command to a specialized division for agricultural extension and staff
training. The extension component of the project would be the responsibility



- 39 -
of the above division for agricultural extension and staff training.
Technical and administrative support would be provided to the division chief
by a SMS team, an administrative unit and the coordination unit. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the extension component would be staffed
and implemented according to an implementation plan agreed with the Bank for
extension organization.
6.13     Regional and field organization (Organigram 3 and Impl. Vol. Annex
II). Within DPAs and ORMVAs covered by the project, separate extension units
would be maintained. Within the ORMVAs a separate service has been created
while in the DPAs the strengthened extension unit would, initially, remain
within the "Service de Mise en Valeur"(SMV). MARA which is in the process of
disengaging from input delivery thereby allowing the SMV to concentrate on
extension activities, is reluctant to create a new service at the DPA level
for the time being. The effectiveness of the organization within the DPA
would be kept under review. In both ORMVAs and DPAs, the extension services
would cover contact group extension, mass extension and women extension. The
extension services would receive technical support from SMS teams specialized
in major crops and animal production of the region reporting to the director
of DPA/ORMVA. Staff of the teams would be exempt of administrative tasks and
would provide a key link between research, agricultural training services and
field extension workers through joint activities with research/development
units at CRRA (para. 4.10). At field level, extension "bureaux" of CTs/CMVs
would have a similar structure to the above regional extension bureau. The
extension "bureaux" at CTs/CMVs would be managed by a degree level
agriculturist who would have direct responsibility over all extension agents
and be assisted by a deputy when their number exceeds 10. They would also
benefit from the support of SMS teams based at the region or at the ORMVA as
described in Annex 1. Preparation of satisfactory staffing plans, staff
training program and extension program (messages, activities, etc.) for 1990
for all CTs/CMVs in the project area, would be a condition of disbursement for
the extension component; program models were agreed at negotiations.
6.14     Extension systems through contact groups.  As described in para. 4.15
and Impl. Vol. Annex I, two extension systems both based or, the T&V contact
group approach would be implemented according to the agro-ecological
conditions of the CTs' region. They would essentially address medium and
small farmers because big farmers have already direct access to technical
services of DPA/ORMVAs and research agencies. In good and medium rainfed
areas (over 400 mm), the contact group system which is an adaptation of the
T&V system would be implemented with a ratio of 1 extension agent for 320
farmers. In low and erratic rainfall areas (less than 400 mm), which present
high investment risks and for which no clear packages have yet been developed,
more emphasis would be given to research and extension linkages. This
approach would be tested within three CTs (Azilal, Ain Ben Mathar and Tiznit)
by joint research/extension aervice teams applying the research development
approach. This methodology is also based on the T&V system of close contact
and dialogue of the extension/research teams with farmers organized in groups
of 20 per village and regularly visited. They would jointly agree upon
improvements of the agro-sylvo-pastoral environment as a whole before carrying
out experixub.atation of the proposals. In the irrigated areas where plots are
concentrated and farmers apply intensive cropping systems, the ratio of one
extension for 160 farmers would be adopted. In all cases, extension
activities at field level would be carried out by staff at "adjoint technique"
level under supervision of the CT/CMV "extension chef de bureau" and with
technical support of the SMS team. Details of the organization of extension
are given in Annex 1. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DVRA



- 40 -
would prepare annual extension programs for the following year and present
them to the Bank prior to October 31 for comment.
6.15     Audio visual support activities.  The audio-visual component would
make the best use of the existing network to support extension training and
contact groups activities (Impl. Vol. Annex III). It would include the
reorganization of present personnel structures and establishment of yearly
work programs for production of audio-visual materials including charts,
slides and videos. Production of didactic material would be the
responsibility of the division of agricultural extension and staff training in
Rabat using CNERV facilities and in liaison with field units and SMS teams.
The project would finance audio-visual equipment for the 5 non-equipped DPAs
with complete sets of existing films; and vehicles and equipment for 26 mobile
units at CT/CMV level. These units based at CTs/CMVs would not limit their
activities to farmers in contact groups but also address all farmers in the
area. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a comprehensive four year
program acceptable to the Bank for production of audio-visual material for the
project would be prepared prior to September 30, 1989.
6.16     Training in extension (Impl. Vol. Annex III).  All project extension
agents would have to attend an initial training period of ten weeks, held in
one of the three regional training centers (para. 4.17). Thereafter they
would have to attend every other year a refresher course of three weeks.
Training programs would include: (a) practical training in the field; (b)
communication techniques; (c) organization of extension activities. The heads
of the regional training centers would report to the training bureau within
the DVRA agricultural extension and staff training division. Between periods
reserved for training project staff, the three centers would be open to all
MARA extension staff, including women extension agents in order to ensure full
use of project investments. In addition, throughout the year, extension
agents would receive at the CTs/CMVs, every fortnight, short refresher
training related to seasonal activities and carried out with participation of
SMS and INRA's research development units. During these refresher courses
extension messages would be explained and their implementation prepared.
Training of degree level staff would be carried out through contracts between
the extension division and CNERV financed by a Bank project (1220-MOR)(para.
4.17), and teaching would be provided by CNERV, external specialists, ENA
teachers and senior DVRA staff. Training programs would focus on methodology
and execution of extension activities, organization and management or staff
and equipment use. Extension staff at degree level would have to attend two
one week training sessions per year. A program of local fellowships and
visits would be carried out annually to reward the best extension teams.
Detailed training programs and evaluation indicators related to the different
types of courses would be prepared with support of technical assistance (para.
4.20). Assurances were obtained that annual training programs would be
completed not later than September 30 and submitted to the Bank each year for
its review. In addition, and in order to rehabilitate the profession, a study
on extension agents' field activities and career development would be carried
out during the first project year (Impl. Vol. Annex III).
6.17     Technical Assistance and Fellowships:  Technical assistance would be
needed to support the establishment of training centers (5 man/months),
audio-visual reorganization (8 man/months) and implementation and training of
monitoring and evaluation units (6 man/months). Two year fellowships to
prepare masters level degrees would be financed for extension (2) and women



- 41 -
extension (2). A total of 97 months fellowships would be financed for
audio-visual, extension, women extension and monitoring/evaluation and
training center personnel. Details of work scope for consultants and training
are given in Annex 3 of the Implementation Volume.
6.18     Monitoring and evaluation (Imp. Vol. Annex II).  Internal evaluation
would be carried out at the level of the DVRA and at DPA/subdivision level in
accordance with monitoring and evaluation policies and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 4.19). Information collected in the field by monitoring
and evaluation units would be transmitted to the central unit through
DPAs/ORMVAs and completed with a first synthesis prepared by the
agro-economist of the SMS team. Surveys about extension systems acceptance
and extension agents efficiency would be carried out on a selected number of
farmers chosen by the agro-economists at the very beginning of the project and
retained for the project life. Technical assistance support would be required
to (a) prepare monitoring and evaluation unit terms of reference, operating
forms and documents, indicators; (b) propose an adequate computing system for
regional and central units; (c) train staff; and (d) start-up the activities.
Terms of reference for this work were finalized during negotiations and
assurances obtained that the monitoring and evaluation system would be in
place by, at the latest, June 30, 1990.
C. Research and Extension Links
6.19     Close linkages between research and extension are essential for the
success of both activities and would be fostered by the project (Impl. Vol.
Annex I, Appendix 8). At the field level the CRRA's research/development
units (para. 4.10) would carry out farm experiments in direct liaison with
extension agents and relevant SMS staff. Extension agents would also
demonstrate the efficiency of improved techniques learned from research
through establishment of comparative plots implemented according to programs
established in liaison with CRRAs' research/development units. In addition,
research/development units would actively participate in liaison with SMS
teams for preparation and execution of extension training programs and
extension messages preparation. At national level: (a) the "Comite Technique
de la Vulgarisation" (para. 3.15) would coordinate extension activities within
MARA's departments and other agencies. INRA and farmers' representatives
would be members of this committee; (b) DVRA's director who is already member
of the INRA board of directors would be invited to attend INRA's "Technical
Committee" in order to advise on farmers' requirements prior to preparation of
research programs; and (c) direct communication would be formalized between
CRRAs and R&D units and the DVRA's SMS team to establish a permanent dialogue
and elaborate new messages for extension use. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the director of DVRA or the division chief of extension,
would be invited to act as regular consultative member of INRA's Technical
Committee.
D. Staffing, Reporting - Audits and Environment
6.20     Project Staffing.  The project was prepared taking account of present
tight financial constraints imposed on the budget and government determination
to stabilize investments and recurrent expenditures as much as is reasonable.
The first five year time slice has been designed to provide the extension



- 42 -
coverage possible without hiring additional extension agents. Recruitment for
this component would be limited to medium staff level essential to run the new
extension systems. For research, the current lack of scientific personnel is
so acute that it is necessary to hire a total of about 71 research scientists
and 73 technical assistants over five years. This recruitement would be
possible through opening new positions in parallel with eliminating vacancies
at lower levels where staff is over-abundant. No problems are foreseen for
staff recruitment of engineers and technical assistants since the number of
graduates of the three national agricultural schools IAV Hassan II, ENA in
Meknes and ENFI in Sale, are significantly higher than the market absorption
capacity and unemployment at graduate level is very high. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the required number of agricultural engineers
*      and technicians would be annually recruited by INRA.
6.21     Coordination Units (CUs). In order to carry out all administrative
works required for the project, CUs would be established at INRA and DVRA to
centralize and check all information requested by the Bank such as bidding
documents, consultant CVs, and TORs, preparation of semi-annual and annual
progress reports, project financing statements, etc. Operating under the
direct supervision of INRA and the DVRA directors, these units would be the
Bank's interlocutors for each agency and the project would finance staffing,
equipment, and operating costs.
Accounts and Audits
6.22     INRA and DVRA would maintain separate records of project expenditures
and CUs would keep updated monthly summaries of which a copy would be sent to
the Bank. Both institutions would have their project accounts audited
annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank. In practice
audits are carried out by the "Inspection Gen6rale des Finances" (IGF)
according to procedures well established by the Bank and IGF for the ongoing
agricultural projects. The audit would include examination of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) submitted to the Bank for reimbursement. The audit would
give an opinion and provide a report on the veracity, accuracy and fairness of
the presentation of the agencies' annual statements. The auditors' annual
long-forms report, along with opinion on the Statement of Expenditures for
disbursements under the Bank Loan and on the revolving fund (special account)
and audited project financial statements, would be sent to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
Reporting
6.23     Through their respective CUs, INRA and DVRA would prepare half yearly
and annual reports on physical and financial progress in a format acceptable
to the Bank. The reports would include a standard table on annual physical
implementation progress and a section dealing with progress of external
agencies in executing the project's components. The reports should reach the
Bank within two months of the end of the reporting period. Within six months
of completing the project, INRA and DVRA would prepare comprehensive
completion reports acceptable to the Bank.   The report should include a
summary of major results obtained by year, and among others, an evaluation of
farmers' benefits in adopting extension messages.



- 43 -
Prolect mid-term review
6.24     During the month of July following completion of the third growing
season, a joint mid-term review of the project would be carried out by Bank
and Government to evaluate progress , determine success, weakness and failures
and eventually propose appropriate remedies.
Environment
6.25     The proposed project would aim at improving land and input use
through promotion of better cultural practices which, in addition to
production increases, would also have significant impact on soil, underground
water and population protection since: (a) use of improved irrigation
practices will reduce soil salinity and drainage problems; (b) development of
contour plowing, establishment of bench terracing in appropriate regions for
fruit tree plantation and development and better management of permanent
pastures will contribute to reduce erosion; (c) better application of
fertilizer will reduce underground water contamination by leaching losses; (d)
in the low and erratic rainfall and in mountain areas the new
research/development approach, which involves the whole farming system
including to a large extent rangeland and forest utilization, will lead to a
more efficient management of rangeland and forest grazing and protection of
the vegetal cover; and (e) advice from extension agents will lesult in better
handling and storing of pesticides/herbicides which will reduce hazards to
operators and the public. Strengthening of cooperation between research and
extension would also help to improve transfer of technology from INRA's
phytiatry department, which would pursue its work on integrated pest
management and use of less toxic pesticides. In addition, INRA plays a
significant role in ongoing work to update pesticide legislation and the
strengthening of INRA under the project will give added weight to this role.
VII. BENEFIIS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01     Agriculture is an important part of the Moroccan economy even if it
accounts only for 12% of GDP because it provides about 401 of all employment
and is the major source of income for 57% of the total population. Support so
the development of this important sector is very limited because INRA has
inadequate resources estimated at 0.30X of agricultural GDP, lower than the
African average of 0.36%, while extension services focus only on support
activities and no true extension through regular contact with farmers is
carried out, except in 42 pilot and Bank project CTs. The proportion of
arable land in fallow is regularly decreasing while population is increasing
steadily. To cope with the higher demands placed on the land, improvement of
agricultural production urgently requires use of better agricultural
technologies and efficient means of transfer to farmers. To ensure such
progress, research and extension advances need to be complemented by
availability of input6 and marketing services and production incentives, both
of which are being improved under the ongoing ASAL-I and follow-up ASAL-II.
Improvement in research would focus on priority crops in Morocco (para. 4.06)
with the objective of raising rural population income, develop rural
employment, increase the level of self-sufficiency of the country and
developing exports. The project is expected to cover about 600,000 small
farmers of which about 130,000 would directly benefit from implementation of



- 44 -
contact group methods at full development while the 10 year program that it
supports would cover 1,000,000 farmers, i.e. some 67% of all Moroccan farmers.
7.02     Since it is difficult to forecast the degree of success and failure
of research programs, it is impossible to quantify benefits in precise terms.
It is equally difficult to separate the impact of extension inputs and
rainfall variations on increased production. However, where ex post studies
have been attempted in Latin America, India and some other countries, the
economic rate of return of agricultural research has usually been above 402.
The technology packages to be recommended by the extension services for use by
the farmers in the project area as well as the yields and production increases
to be expected from their application will vary according to crop,
agro-ecological zones, regions and farmers' level. They would be further
refined during project implementation (para. 6.24) as applied research
programs increasingly take into account on-farm conditions and constraints.
Because of this and because adoption rates for various recommended practices
would be difficult to assess, no attempt has been made to quantify benefits
expected from the project.
7.03     The project would have substantial ir.stitution building benefits.
Agricultural research in Morocco has achieved much in the past, but since 1977
its activities have faltered. On the other hand, extension never was
supported by a strong, specialized agency and was never organized to
efficiently contact farmers. The project would therefore address identified
weaknesses of research and extension in financing, organization, staffing,
infrastructure, equipment, planning, and programming. Tightening linkages
with several international research institutes and efforts to twin INRA with
similar institutions in Eurove and America should also contribute to its
improvement. Closer cooperation between INRA, ENA, IAV and DVRA under the
project's impulse should ensure better utilization of research resources,
avoid duplication, provide a wider and more efficient coverage of the country,
greater focus on problems at farm level and, above all, better and faster
transmission of new suitable technological messages from INRA to farmers.
Risks
7.04     In the research sector, there would be a risk that in spite of
measures taken to retain within INRA staff which benefited from external
training, a certain number of them would stay abroad, move to other local
agencies, or move to the private sector upon return to Morocco. Establishment
of contracts with potential trainees before departure would contribute to
minimizing this risk (para. 6.08). In the past, INRA also suffered heavy
losses of research scientists and a fast turnover of regional staff. These
trends are expected to slow, following the reevaluation of salaries and
establishment of larger regional centers where research scientists would find
better working and living facilities (paras. 6.05 and 6.07). In addition,
decentralization of the research programs and financial management leading to
increasing responsibilities at the regional level, should be efficient
incentives to retain and motivate research scientists. The other risk
inherent to any research project is that, despite technically sound work,
results would be disappointing. The current wide gap between actual
performance and the potential of crops and cropping systems to be studied
gives confidence, however, that major advances under the project are likely.
Annual review and evaluation of research programs (pars. 6.04) should give



- 45 -
programs management an opportunity to identify weaknesses or failures more
quickly and then redesign or modify programs accordingly.
7.05     In the extension sector, the project involves the reorganization of a
major sector of MARA providing extension services. It would develop new
extension methods involving a new system of management and organization. In
spite of a great deal of enthusiasm generated by the proposed reforms already
implemented within four Bank financed projects for Rural Development (1602,
1848, 2082 and 2217-MOR), in 28 pilot CTs at DVkA initiative and in nine
ORMVAs under the Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (2656-MOR), and
the proven success of the systems to be introduced under the project, there is
a risk that the initial momentum may diminish when extension agents face the
difficulty of transferring new messages to farmers, That risk would be
reduced by providing basic training to all extension staff prior to the first
growing season (para. 6.16) in order to prepare them thoroughly for their new
tasks. In addition, extension agents will be kept abreast through regular
fortnightly refresher training courses. The above risks are not abnormal in
research and extension projects, which can be fully justified because
strengthening agricultural research and extension is essential to the
development of agriculture and potential economic benefits from the project
are high.
7.06     Overall pro_ect.  On the basis of past experience, there is also a
risk that adequate counterpart funds may not be made available by the
Government to finance its share in project investments and operations. This
risk has been reduced by the inclusion of the project in the Government's core
investment program which is being monitored under the Structural Adjustment
Loan (3001-MOR) and by maximizing cofinancing for the project (para. 5.07).
The risk of low sustainability of the project after completion has also been
reduced by reducing recruitment and expenses to the minimum required for a
viable project and by increasing progressively government's share of operating
costs throughout the project life (para. 5.16).
VY. SUMMARY OF AC  SEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) procurement procedures as described in Chapter V would be applied by
both institutions INRA and DVRA (para. 5.10 to 5.14);
(b) the annual investment programs for research and extension would be
sent to the Bank for comments prior to November 30 of each year
(para. 5.17);
(c) proposals for matching the remuneration of INRA's senior research
scientists with university faculty staff involved in research would
be prepared by December 31, 1989, and thereafter promptly applied
upon their approval (6.07);
(d) a new budgeting, financing and accounting system for INRA acceptable
to the Bank would be implemented by March 31, 1990 (para. 6.10);
(e) three "agents comptables" would be appointed in the CRRAs of Settat,
Meknes, and Marrakech prior to December 31, 1989 (para. 6.11);
33 ISE



- 46 -
(f) separate accounting for crop production and seed multiplication would
be established in the 22 research farms prior to March 31, 1990
(para. 6.11);
(g) the extension component would be implemented according .o an
implementation program agreed with the Bank for extension
(para. 6.12);
(h) annual training programs for extension staff and extension programs
would be prepared each year by September 30 and October 31,
respectively (para. 6.14 and 6.16);
(i) a comprenhensive 4 year program for production of audio-visual
material for the project acceptable to the Bank would be prepared
prior to September 30, 1989 (para. 6.15);
(j) the Director of DVRA or the extension division chief would be invited
to participate as regular consultative members in INRA's technical
committee activities (para. 6.19);
(k) recruitment of the research scientists and technicians required for
INRA's development would be carried out annually (para. 6.20); and
(1) audits would be carried out annually and reports would be issued
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 6.22).
8.02     As condition of Effectiveness of the proposed loan, the government
would:
(a) issue the regulations organizing a new budgeting, financing and
accounting system for INRA acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.10).
8.03     As condition of disbursement for :he extension component of the
proposed project, DVRA would submit to the Bank 1990 staffing plans, staff
training programs and extension programs for all CTs and CMVs (para. 6.13).
8.04     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$28.0 million to the Kingdom of Morocco for a
term of 20 years including a five year grace period. The project is expected
to be completed by June 1994.



KING0N OF  RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REOT
Aoricultural Research and Extenston/ Prolot de Recherche et Vul1arisat1on Aartcole
Total AereCa  and Produet10n - uoerf1eoes et Praduetaln
Sunerfictes/Acreae ('040 Na)                                            Produetion '0000 Tons)
1908/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   198S/86           1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1965/86
CEREAL Total of which:            4,382     4.281      4.703     4.477      4.779     5.166            2,121     4,908      3,573     3.70o    S,300       7,605
Ourum wheat/ble dur           1,166     1.107      1,286     1,122      1.116     1.192             611      1,406     1,238      1.171     1.321      1.981
Bread wheat/ble tendre          481       579        690       733        778     1.034              281       777       731        818     1,016      1.827
Rarley/orge                   2.228     2,047      2,151     2.126     2,383      2.472            1.039     2.333     1.227      1.404     2.S41      3,562
U&SESZLikLumineuses Total           304       295        411       444        St2       501               66       221       285        24S       388        468
INDUSTRIAL CROPS/Cultures Industrielles
Sugar Cane/Canne i sucre          7         8          9        11         13        12              621       510       734        77S       720        792
Sugar Beet/Betterave i sucre    S7         57         66        53         56       S5             2,107     2,315     2,588      2.S2S     2.24e      2,624
gFLOK ETourneslo                     1S         13        20        29         35        49                9        63         16        19         24        43
FORAGE/Fourrames en millions        145        278       273       281        281       303              S07       983        761       87S       852      1.100   1
yLQgTAHLES/maraichane               123        143       14S       151        149       189            2.3SS     2.931      2.138     2.660      3,281     3.286
ERUIT TREESiArbres fruit1ers        304        321       352       356        363       372            1.273     1.414      1.192     1,363      1.328     1.667
Total
Olive/Olivier                   242       259        282       286        293       302              300       412       232        346       368        482
Citrus/agrunes                   62        62         70        70         70        70              973     1.002       960      1,017       960      1.185
s34r9E:P 7)
Source: O.P.V.
.  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



-48-                              TABLE   2 (a)
TABLEAU 2 (a)
MOROCCOIMAROC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
Total Project Costs
Coats Totaux du Proiet
MAROC
Recherche et Vulgarisation
Simmary Accounts by Year
(IOH '0001
Base Costs                          Foreign Exchargr
......... ...  ....... ..... ... ... ... ... .. ..... ..... ...    ...... ..... .....
1989     1990      1991       1992     1993    total        s     knount
1. INVESIMENT COSTS
...... ......... ...
A. CONSTRUCTION                                1.735.6  24.911.6  26,273.8  7.243.1          - 60,164.1   36.9   22.201.4
B. EQUIPEMENT                                  6.908.4  11.55S.8   5,574.2    974. 1            25.012.6   68. 1   17.032.5
C. EQUIPEMlENT LABO                              516.0          -  10.083. 1   416.6            11.015.7   55.4    6,107.1
0. FOURNITURES BUREAU                            386.e   1.271.7   1.523.8    515.1 1            3,697.4   40.9    1,S12.7
E. IRRIGATION                                    284.3   1. 529. 4   I, 173.2                -  2. 987. 0   39.6    1. 181. 6
f. NOYENS TRANSPORl                          21.189.3 21.188.8   7.105.6  1,048.8    439.2  50,971.4   49.8   25,251.0
G. ACHAT ANIIAUX                                     -     212.3      212.3    233.5         -     658.0   10 3       67.5
n. MATERIEL INFORMATIQUE                       3.626.5   1.450.2          -        -            5.076.?   50.5    2565. 4
1. BOURSES                                     1. 872. 0   5.247.7   S. 185.3  5, 528. I 2.208. 6  20,041.7   83.9   16. 818. 7
J. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE ET CONSUtTATION       2.577.7   8.957.8   7,004.0  6.688.9  5,455.8  30,684.3   88.9   27,267.4
K.. LOGICIElS                                        -     709.6                            -      709.6   50.5      358, 6
L. PlANTATIONS                                       -      26.8      26.8      32. 1              8a5.7   35.6       30.5
N. MATERIEL EDITION                            2.813. 1                   -        -         -  2,813.1   60.5    1.421t5
N. MATERIEL MICROfILNAGE                       1.025.1   1,071.4          -        -         -  2.096.6   50.6    1,059.5
0. ACQUISITION PUBLICATIONS                      333.8     333.8     333.8      64.6     64.6   1.130.?   SO.5       871.4
P. MOBILI8ER ET EQUIPEfIENT                     548.6       88.0          -                       636.6   40.6       258.2
Q. EQUIPEMENT DDIOVISUEL                             -     179.5                                   1 -  379.5   44.6  80.0
R. EQUIPENENT OPA ET ONVA                                  476.3      161.1        -        -     637.4   43.7       278.4
S. EGUIPENENT AUDIOVIS IMOBIlE                 1.143.1   1,775.0      141.3        -        -   3,059.4   45.6    1,39S.2
T. EQUIPENENT AUDIOVIS F IXE                             I, 380.7             -         -        1.380.?   42. 6     587.?
U. EQUIPENENT PRODUCTION DIAPOSITIVES                -     149.3                   -               149.3   42.6       63.5
V. EGUIPENENT PRODUCTION CASSETTES                   -     137. 5                           -      137.5   42.6       58.5
..-- -    -- - - -   ---- ---   --------   -------- . ----- ---. ..   ......... ....... ....... ... ...... ........
Total INVESTMENt COSTS                          44. 960.5  82. 652.9  64,798.5 22. 744.5  8. 168.2 223,324.7   56.5  126. 168. 3
II. RECURRENT COSIS
A. PERSONNEL SUPPLENENJAIRE                  3.888.9   7. 282. 6   8. 621.) 9, 953.9 10,975.9  40,722.3    0.0        0.0
*                     8. ENTRETIEN CONSTRUCTIONS                       43.4     666.2  1.323.0  3,504.1  1.504.1  5,040.8   35.0    1,764.3
C. fONCTIONNEIENT VEHICULES                  7,073.4  11,767.2  14,100.0 14.233.4 14,233.4  61.407t5   49.5   30,421.0
0. EXPERIMENTATION                             814. 3   1,050. 0   1, 323. 2  1. 612. 5  1. 950. 0   6.749.9   35.6    2, 399. 7
E. ANALYSES ACCONPAGNENENT                          -     171.4     310.7    439.3    600.0   1,521.4   35.6        540.9
f. FUNCTIONNENENT LABO                         485.4      878.7   1.450.1  1.881.3  2,053.6   6,749.2   54.0    3.644.7
G. OEPtACENENTS                              3,258.2   3,811. 7   4. 320.9  4.560.9  4,144. 3  20. 696.0   10.3    2. 122. 3
H. ESSAIS CONfIRMATION                          48.1       48. 1     48. 1     48. I    48. 1    240.6   30.5        73.5
1. FONCTIONNENENT INEORlNATIOUE                268.1      305.9     484.7    514.1    574.1   2.206.8   60.5   1t114.4
J. fONCTIONNEIENT BUREAUX                       107.7     10?. 7     107. 7    107.7    107. 7   538.4  SO.8        272. 1
I. ALIMENTIATION BETAIL                                    88.7      171.4    265.7    265.7     788.6   35.6       280.3
L. ACTIONS ANIMATION                          1,739.9   3,366.9   4.889.4  4,008.9  5,488.1  19,493.2   30.9    6,014.2
I. FONCTIONNEMENT DEMONSTRATIONS                535.7   1, I1.1   3,308.4  2.451.3  2,987.0  10,439.4   35.6    3,731.5
N, NEBERGEMENT                                      -   1,597.5   1.916.9  1,597.5  1,597.5   6,709.3   20.4    1,371.3
0. FOURNITURES PEDAGOGIQUE                          -     198.2     214.3    214.3    187.5      814.2   35.6       289.5
P. INTRANTS AGRICOLES                                      77.7      77.7      7t.7     77.7     310.7   35.6       110.5
Q. VISITES                                          -      31.9       31.9     31.9     31.9      127.8  20.4        26.1
R. FONCTIONNENENt EQUIPERENT AUDIOVISUEL            -       9.0       9.0       9.0      9.0       35.9   42.0        35. I
S. FONTIONNEENIT MAtERIEL AUDIOVISUEL           223.6     347.6     354.6    354.6    354.6   1,635.0   42.4        ..2.8
t. PRODUCTION SUPPORTS PEDAGOGIQUES                 -     227.8     325.1    417.8    417.8   1,388.3   42.6        690.9
.  ........ ............  ......... ....... ......... .... .... .... .....  ..... ..... ... ......
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            18,486.8  33, 188. 5  43, 388. 1 44,343.9 48,207.9 187.615. 3   29.6    5.6454.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                              63,447.3 115.841.5 108. 186. 6 67. 088.8 56. 376. 1 410,939.9   44.2  181,623.2
Physical Contingencies                         4,496.0   8.268. 8   6.486. 1 2,280. 7    823.1 22,354.7   56.5   12.624.6
Price ContIngencies                             1, 829. 5  10, 067. 9  15. 299. 8 12, 851. 9 13, 764. 1 53, 813. 1  42.0   22, 616.0
....... ........ . . . ...... ........ ... ... .. .........  ...... . . .........
total PROJECt COSTS                               69. 772.8 134. 178. 1 129.972.5 82.221. 1 70. 963.3 487. 107. 7   44.6  216.863.7
:::lss.: ::t:..S:: :t:;::t4t t:1St:z: t::z:82::S:a:S:: ttSt3S:3* 22ts::s:
Taxs                                           11,417.0  19,135.3  18.717.8 11,363.9 310,631.8  71,265.8    0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                              33,844.8  62,936.9  58, 262. 1 35.243.2 26.777.0 216, 863. 7    0.0       0.0
........... .................. .... ..... ...................................................................................
Nbech S. 1989 18:12



- 49 -                          TABLE 2 (b)
TABLEAU 2 (b)
MOROCCO/MAROC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
Project Components by Year
ComRosntes du Proet Par Anne.
MAROC
Rocherche ot Vulgarisation
Project Components by Yler
IONH 'I000
Base Costs                          Total
............   ......---------------------------------  --------..--.....---------- ... ..... .
19S9    1990      1991      1992     1993       ON     IUSs '000)
A. RECHERCHE
1. GESTION ET INfORIIATIQUE                  4.203.4  2, 182.7    523.1   612.5   612.5   8,134.1   I,018.8
2. CENTRES REGIONAUX                         2. 492.8  6. 090. I  7. 834. 7 3.219. 0 3.305. 7  22.942. 3   2. S8?. 8
3. PROGRAIIIIS PRIORITAIRES                  4,309 1  13. 602.9  19. 611. 7 9.544.3 10, 371.4  57. 439.5   7. 119.9
4. DONAINES                                  5, 793. 1 26. 744.3  19. 861.5    960.2   960.2  54. 325.4   6,790.7
5. SERVICES RECHERCHE ET OEVEtOPEPENT        2.245.1    584.6    645.7    645.7   645.1   4,766.9          595.9
6. REtFORCEIENT SYSTEIE INFORNAT ET COCUI   8074.9  2.593.4   1 331.7  1.062.5  1,062.5  14.125.0    1,765.6
7. FORMATION El ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE         2.954.2  9.161.7  10 185.? 1I,062.2  7,015.4  40,379.2   5,047.4
8. CELtULE OU PROJET                           591.4    236.5    236.5   236.5   236.5   1.537.2           192.2
,- -- -   -- -- --   -- - - -   -------   --------.  -- -- --   --.--.---.---.... ...... .... . .
Sub-Total RECHERCNE                            30. 664.0  61. 196.2  80, 236. 6 27. 342.9 24,209.9  203. 649. 6  25.458. 2
8. VULGARISATION
...    ..... 
1. RENFORCEIENT DPA El ORNVA                 6.164. 1  7.789. 1  S,901. 1 4.351.0  4,351.0  28.556.2   3,569.5
2. SYSTEIE FORIATION El VISITE              IO, 181.4  15,336.9  21,734.2 18. 613. 1 10,993.3  16.858.8   9,601.4
3. APPUI PROJEtS INTEGRES                    4,534.1   6,091.8  5,811.5  4,835.4  4,879.1  26.151.9   3,269.0
4. CENTRES DE FORMTIN                        1.615.5  5.649.4  3,802.8  3,483.3  3.456.5  18,007.4   2.250.9
5. RENFORCENENT AUDIO El SCRIPTOVISUEL         288.3  6.693.0  1.893.4  1,825.1 1.625.1   12,524.9    1,565.6
6. SUIVI El EVALUATION                         314.9   1,357.8    230.3   230.3   230. 3   2. 363. 7      295.5
7. TAJ8OURSES CONSULTATION                     592.6  3.915.1  2,003.7  1,154.8   649.0   8.315.1    1.039.4
8. CEttlUE DE PROJET                           386.4    139.3    139.3   139.3   139.3          943.4      117.9
9. 17 CT/PILOIE                              8.705.9  7. 673.0  6,433.8  5. 113.5  S. 642. 6  33. 568.8   4. 198. 1
.............  .... .....    ... .... .... .  ..........   .. .. . ...  --- --     ----------.....
ub-Total VUEGARISAt101                         32,783.3  54.545.3  47, 950.0 39,745.6 32. 166.2  207.290.3  25,911.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                             83,447.3 1158.41.5 108,186.6 67.088.5 56,376.1 410,939.9  51.367.5
Physicas) Contingencies                        4,496. 0  8, 268. 8   6. 486. 1 2.280. 7   823. 1  22, 354. 7    2,794.3
Price Contingencies                            1. 829S5  10,067.9  15 299. 8 12,851.9 13 764. 1  53,813.1    8 726. 6
Total PROJECI COSTS                              69.772.8 134. 178. 1 129,972.5 82.221. 1 70. 963. 3 487. 107.7  60.868. 5
::=:s=:: ::sf::;::: :::::::.: sa:=:::: atas::s: ::::::::: *:sss:t:g
Tases                                         11,417.0  19.135.3  18,717.8 11,363.9 10.631.8   71.265.8   8.908.2
Foreign Exchange                              33,644.5  62,936.9  58.262.1 35,243.2 26.777.0  216,863.7  27.108.0
Narch 8. 1989  18:12



- 50 -
TABLE 2 (c)
TABLEAU 2(c)
MOROCCOIMAROC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTERSON PROJECT
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
Reearch Component
Chmnosante Recherche
Rechercte at Vulgrisat ion
Suiey Accounts by Year
Totals Includn    I  inotc o*                          lotals Including Centltngios
ION it  i lUSs '0001
................ .......................... .............  ................... ............................... ............................ ........
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993    lotal       ls t 98 9 10    19'1    19        1993    total
Sn.;::;S .SZSS ::t:s.  tsS :::nn.  nflS:.:: s.f............. :ss:nn:3:: S:::::: S.:.X$:.5 S  23:3:::t 22sS::t;t$$
1. IlVESINEiT eosts
........ .......... ..
A. CONSTRUCTION                               1.452.5 24,130.3 23.781.7         -           49.364.5    181.6 3.0186.3 2,972.7                    6 - 170.6
9. EUIPtNENI1                                6,115.6 11,411.6  4.678.?          -        - 22.20S.9    764.4 1.42S.4   584.8          -        * M.I
e. EUIPENEUt tLASO                             582.9         - 12,564.0    541.8         -  13.688.7      72.9        - 1,570.5    67.7        -  1.711.t
1. FOURNITUtES BUREAU                           291.4  t. 186.9  1.29t.9        -        -  2.776.2       36.4   148.4   162.2                 -    347.0
E. IRRIAtION                                    321.2  1.8tas9  1,482.9                  -   3.603.0      40.2   227.4   182.9        -             450.4
1. iOMENS RIANSPORT                          7,721.2  8.7t7.5  2. 294.2    364.4             19.097.3    965.1 1,089.1   286.8    45.5         - 2.381.2
G. ACUI MINAUI                                      -    252.5    265.0    305.8                823.3        -    31.6    33.1    38.2         -    102.9
11. NATERIE, IlNfORNATIQUE                   4 096.4    226.3          -                 -  4,322.       512 0    28.3                -        -    540.3
1. iJRSES                                    2. 114.0  2,389.8  4.27?7.  5.7U3. 1 2,107.9  16.672.6    264.3   298.7   534.7   722.9   263.5  2.084. 1
d. ASSISIANCE TECHNIQUE El  OlNSULTATION     2.241.8  9.846.0  8.404.?  8.587.?  7.374.3  36.434.5    280.2 1.230.8 1,050.8 1,071.0   921.8  4,554.3
4. LOGICIEIS                                        -    843.9                           -      843.9        -   105.5                         -    105.5
L, PLAIAIIOtiS                                      -     31.9     33.4      41.9              107.2               4.0      4.2     5.2              1 13.4
N. RATERIEL EDIIION                          3.t177.6                                         3. 7.6    397.2         -               -             "37.2
M.  AItERIElt NICROFILAG                      1, 158.0  1.274.1 t        -               -   2,432.1    144.?   159.3         -       -             304.0
0. ACQUISITION PU8lICATIONlS                    377.1    397.0    416.0      84.1     87.8   1,362.0      47.1    49.6    52.0    10.5    11.0    170 2
.......    -- ---   -----    -- - - -- -- -. -- - -      ... ..... .......    ..... ..    ........ .. .. .. .    . ..... . ... 
Total INVESISTNt COSTS                         29.649.5 62.526.6 59,476.3 15.BS8.8  9,570.0 176,911.4  3.706.2 7,815.8 7,434.5 1,961.1 1.I9S.3 22.113.9
=2 :,. :,..:::: :::::s:: sss   S::.:::2 .3:......................,:*:...  :::::::  S::.::.: *5235...........::::: ::S.s::: S.......... ,:sSf.:: ..... ::. :
II. RECURRENT COSTS
. .... .... .....
A. PERSOiUEt SIIPPIENENTAIRE                   891.6  2, 29. 3  4.432. 1 6,242.7  7.834.3  22. 230.0    111.4   353.7   554.0   780.3   979.3  2.778. 8
8. E'IRETIEN CONSTRUCTIONS                      33.0    587.0  1.159. 2  1.212.9  1.269.2   4.261. 3      4. 1    73.4   144.9   151. 6   158.6   532. 7
C. f0CTIONIENEP  VElIICUIIES                1,671.4  2.568.4  3,363.9  3.61t.5  3.835.0  I5. I 10. 1   208.9   321. 0   420.5   458.9   4S. 4  1,88. 8
0. EXPERINE'TAtION                            836.3  1,1 35.2  1,500.1 1t,S2.2  2.418.9   7,802.7    104.5  141.9   187 5   239.0   302.4    97b.3
E. ANALYSES ACCONPAIIGNEINT                        -    165.3    352.3    520.9    144.3   1,802.8               23.2    44.0    65. t   93.0    225. 3
f. FOlCTIMENENT 1tAU80                        498.4    950.0  1.642.8  2.225.0  2.535.9   7.852. t       62.3   118.7   205.3   218 1   317.0    981.5
h. DEPLACENENtS                                167.5    S14.4    872. t  1.200.8  1,488.8   4,243.6      20. 9    64.3   109.0  ISO. I   186. 1   530. 5
N. ESSAIS CONIfIlilON                           49.4     52.0     54.6      57.1     59.8     272.9       6.2     6.5      6.8     7.1     7.5      34.1
1. fONCTIONIENIN  INfORIMAT:IiE              215.3    289.9    506.3    634.6    662.?   2.368. 8       34.4    36.2    63.3    79.3    62.8    296. I
J. ONCTIO4IINENENt 8UREIIU1                    110.6    116.4    122.0    127.4    133.1      600.5      13.8    14.6    15.3    15.9    16.6       76.2
R. ALINENIATIOIS 6TAIL                                   92.?    194.3    315.1    329.6      931.7        1- 1.6    24.3    39.4    41.2   t16i5
. ... ....  .......  .......     ........  .......     ........ .  ....  ......     ..... ..  . .....  .....     .......
Total RECURREII COSTS                           4.533.5  9, 320. 6 14,tS9.1 t 8.120.4 21,311. 516.485.1    566.71. 1,65.tI t1tS7. 02,265.0 2,863.9  8.435.7
......................::: : :: .................:   : ......  :: : : .:.:..............  :.::  .: .......... . . .Sf t.S: ss::3.  * 5.3.. .. .
Ttall PROJIECT COSTS                            34.,t83.0 71,847.2 73,676.1 33,809.2 30,681.5 244,397.0  4,272.9 8,980.9 9,209.5 4,226.1 3,880.2 30,549.8
n..::.s. ::::::::::: t................... :2:::::  2:::Sn   S5S:t   5 :2 :s..   ::: :.2...:::: sf:::: 2:s:::: **SS2f::::.,
Nboch 8. 198S9 16:13
3 6 66



TABLE   2 (d)
TABLEAU 2 (d)
MOROCCO/MAROC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
Extension Component
Composante Vu46Wsation
NAROC
Recherche 01 Vulgarisatson,
Sary Acc-,$a by Year
Totals Icludtrg tontinteflOs                        totals Includ;ng Contipgencies
(ONI 000l                                            US$ '0001i
1989     1990    1991      1902     1993    Total      1989   1990    1991    1902    I993   total
1. IlNESTNENT COSTS
.......... ............
A. CoNS1RUCIION                                508.3  5. 496. ?  8.985.6  9.451.1         24. 442.4    63.5   687. 1 1. 123.2 1.181.5      - 3.055.3
. E4OUPEIIENT                                1.686.9  2,329.6  2.264.8  1.265.2        *  7,546.5    210.9  291.2  2T3.1   158.1                943.3
C. fIUINItURES BUREAU                          145.5   32E.4   602.1   671.5           -   1,744.5      18.2    40Q7    75.3   83.9        -   218. I
IL lUTEUS IRISPDRI                          16. 213. 8 16.480. 1 6.562.0  1. 000. 6   597.2  40.853.1 2,026. * 2. 060.0   820 2   125. 1   74.7  5,106.7
E. NATEURIEt infotiAIqU                            -  1.498.2                          -   1,498.2        -   187.3        -                    IS- . 3
F. NURSES                                             3.850.6  2. I78.6  1.388.2   877.2   8,294.6         -  481.3  272.3   173.5   109.6  1,036.8
C  ASSIStANCE TEClIIIOIE Et CONSUtiOII         669.2   805.3   316.2    109.8          -   1.900.4     83.6   tOO.7   39.5   1S.7          -   237.6
11. 11081tlER El LOUIPEINENT                   619.t   104.6         -        -              724.4     7t.5    13.1                              90.5
I. EouIPINENT AUDIOVISUEL                               213.4        -                       213.4             26.7       -        -      -    26.7
Q. tfftlPEIIE'1 DPA El RINVA                       -   566.4   200.8          -        -    767.2         -   70.8   25.1              -        95.9
R. EIKNPENENt AUDIOVIS NOgIuE                1.291.3  2,110.8   176 2         -        -  3.578.3    161.4  263.9   22.0           -       -   447.3
t. EU0PKNENT AUDIOVIS fIXE                         -  1.641.9                 -        -   1,641.9         -  205.2                        -   206.2
It EfftlPEIIEllt PRDOUCtlOII DIAPOSITIVES          -    177.5        -                 -     177.5         -   22.2        *       -       -    22.2
I  EfQUIPElENT PROUCtION CASSETIES                      163.5        -        -               163.5        -   20.4                        -    20.4
total~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... INVE...N. COSTS     ------ ------  ------  ---------  -------.. ........ ------..  ...... . . .. ........................................ ....... ........ ........
total IN4YESINENtil   COStS                    21. 134.8 35. 764. 1 21.286.3 13.,87.0  1.474.4  93.546.5  2. 641. 8 4.470. 5 2 660. 8 1,735.9   184.3 11.693.3
It. RCURRENiT COSTS
A. PKRSOIiEL SUPPtIENNTAIRE                 3, 104.3  5.045.9  5.356.6  5.624.4 5,905.6  25.036.8    388.0  630.7  669. 6   703. I   38.2  3. 129.6
6. ENTRETIEN CONSTRUCTIOW4S                    11.6   137. 1   348.0   578.9   605.8   1 681. 3         1.4    17.1   43.5    72.4   75. 7    210.2
C. fONCtIONIEIENT VENICUtES                 5,592.3 10,153.0 12.612.2 13.173.5 13.760.0  55,290.9    699.0 1.269.1 1.57S.S 1.646.7 1.120.0  B.911.4
0. OEPLACEIENTS                             3. 180.0  3.607. 3 4,032.2  4,230. 1 4,437.8  19, 486 4    397.5  450.9  504. 0  526.8  554.7 2.435.9
. FONCTIONNENENT INfORNATIQUE                    -    40.9    42.8    44. t    4& ?        175. I             S. I    5. 4    S. 6    S. 8    21. 9
F. ACTIONS ANINATION                        1.787.0  3,640.2  5.544.9  4.,57.0  6.819.3  22.548.4    223.4  455.0  693.1  594.6  852.4  2.818.5
Q. FtIOIIIENENT DENONSTRATIONS                550.2  1.251.0  3,750.8  2,907.0  3.705.3  12.164.2    68.8   156.4  468.8  363.4  463.2  1,520.5
N. NE8ERSENET                                        1.727.3  2.174.9  1.899.3  1.990 4   7,791.9         -  215.9  271.9  237.4  248.8    974.0
1. ftOUNNTIRS   PEDAG IQUE                        -   214.3   242.9   254.1    232.6    943.8                 26.8.  30.4    31.8   21.1    118.0
J. INTRANTS AGRICOtES                             -    84.0    88.1    92.1        96.4     360.5              10. 5    11.0   11.5    12.0    45.1
S. VISITES                                        -    34.5      36.2    38.0    39.8       t48.6         -    4.3     4.5     4.7     5.0      18.6
t. fO#CIIOIINENENT EQUIPNENT AEIIOIOVSUE-                9.?     10.2     10.6    11.1       41.6        -    1.2       1.3     1.3     1.4      5.2
N. fOtItONNtNENt NATERIEt AUOIOVISUEL         229.6   375.8   401.9   420.1   439.2   1.8S6.6         28.7   47.0   50.2   52.5   54.9   233 3
N. PRODUCIOIN SUPPORIS PEKOAGCGIUES               -   246.0    368.4   495.0   517.4   1,626.9           -   30.6   46.1    61.9    64.7   203 4
............ .....................   ...........................................-------.....-------....-------....-.................................
total RECURRE1T COSTS                          14. 455.0 26. 566.  35. 010. 1 34,524.9 38. 607.4 149. 164. 2  1.806.9 3. 320.9 4.376. 3 4. 315.6 4.825.9 1, 645.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'::::   ......2.... 2.129tt.   t2222.29.  - -_..... ....... Z.*.. .    *.... ..
Total PROJECT COSTS                             35,589.8 62.,30.9 56.296.4 48.411.9 40Q081.8 242.710.7  4.448:7 7,791.4 7.037.0 6.051.S 5.010.2 30.338.8
2.::-.:  9.::Z,:.&.        ... ....   49-4 ...........  ......:::::::. ,.-  * ...................... Z :, .  ::: ::...9...s.. ...............: 
.................................. ........................................................... . ..... .... ...... ........ ...  ..............
lu1h 9. 1989 17: 53
'S 6 -



- 52 -
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AIND EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Dibursement of Bank Loa /a
---BaBnk Disbursements US$--
IBRD       Semester                  By end of                      Cumulative
Fiscal Year  _ndins                     Semester    Cumulative  2 of Disbursement
1990           Dec.  89                       1.5 /b       1.5             51
June  90                      0.5           2.0             72
1991           Dec.  90                       0.5          2.5             92
June  91                      1.0           3.5            13X
1992           Dec.  91                       2.0          5.5            19X
June  92                      2.5          8.0             29%
1993           Dec.  92                       3.0         11.0            39%
June  93                      3.0          14.0            502
1994           Dec.  93                       3.0         17.0            602
June  94                      3.0         20.0             71%
1995           Dec.  94                       3.0         23.0            822
June  95                      2.5         25.5             911
1996           Dec.  95                       2.5         28.0           1001
/a  Expected Effectiveness date: September 1989
Expected Completion date   : June 1994
Expected Closing date         : June 1995
/b Special account deposit



ANNEX 1
- 53 -                Page 1 of 7
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Planned rENaRization of the
Proiet Extension Services
A. Structure and Organization
1.       The effectiveness and efficiency of extension services in Morocco are
hampered by lack of organization and discipline, ambiguous lines of
responsibility, excessive amounts of office work; and at field level, by
inadequately trained personnel and lack of direction, support and incentives.
This situation leads to unmotivated, poorly trained field level staff diapersed
over large areas, lacking close supervision, and precise work programs and
responsible for many tasks which often have no direct relation with extension
work. Under the Project, the extension service would be reorganized along the
lines of the T&V system in order to remedy current defects and improve
efficiency.
Structure
2.       Ministry:  An Extension Division would be maintained within DVRA at
the Ministry of Agriculture with exclusive responsibility for managing
extension activities and guarding against the imposition of other tasks on
extension agents by other agencies. This division would be organized into
three units:
(a) extension services;
(b) training; and
(c) audio-visual activities.
The units would be supported by a subject matter specialist team (SMS) and an
administrative unit.
3.       Province:  The Department of Agriculture at the provincial level or
ORMVA should include an extension division dealing exclusively with extension
activities and staffed by an agricultural engineer and some support staff. It
would be the link between the Department of Agriculture at the
Provincial/ORMVA level and support agencies at the provincial level and field
staff. This division's primary responsibility would be to (a) closely
supervise extension staff; (b) coordinate with other ministries' divisions
(livestock, research, etc.); and (c) provide specialized technical support to
field staff through a team of subject matter specialists. The provincial or
ORMVA extension director should spend four days per week in the field in order
to monitor the CTsl' In rainfed areas and the subdivision's chiefs in
irrigated areas at work with extension agents in CMVs.1' If the number of
1/  :    "Centres de Travaux" - Extension Centers (Rainfed)
2/  :    "Centres de Mise en Valeur" - Extension Centers (Irrigation)



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
agricultural subdivision chiefs exceeds eight, the regional extension chief
should be assisted by a deputy. Support services such as input distribution,
marketing, credit, mechanization would be managed independently by specific
agencies or the private sector whose activities are being developed in these
areas.
4.       Subdivision:  ORNVAs are divided into subdivisions managed by an
agricultural engineer. Since the subdivision chief is in charge of all
agricultural activities in his area, he would be supported by appointing one
or several chief-extensionists (senior technician) depending on the number of
extension agents to supervise. A ratio of 1 for 8 is recommended in order
that the chief extensionist could devote enough time to monitoring and
technically supporting extension agents through a full day's visit once every
two weeks. Inputs, marketing, credit and other support facilities would be
available at extension centers (CMVs) and managed by specialized staff under
the coordination of the subdivision chiefs.
5.       Extension Centers:  Within the CTs and CMVs the number of extension
agents must be defined according to the number of farms to be visited, their
distribution in the area supervised by each agent, types of farming and
cropping patterns. In order to facilitate the extension agents' task and
increase the number of farmers in direct contact with them, farmers would be
organized in groups of about 20/30. Half a day would be spent every fortnight
with each group. One extension agent could thus visit and be responsible for
an average of about 320 farmers. This ratio would be lower in very intensive
production areas, and higher in more extensive areas.
6.       Farm:  The average group of 20/30 farmers, who would all be
neighbours or some natural cultural group or a group applying the same farming
system, would meet once every two weeks with the extension agent. The meeting
would be held on each farm in turn; its program would vary according to the
needs of the growing season and the type of farming but would, in principle,
include:
-    explanation of recommended cultural practices;
-    practical demonstrations; and
-    delivery of papers required for administrative purposes (credit,
inputs, etc.)
It is recommended that demonstrations be carried out on only part of the farm
to facilitate comparisons between traditional and improved cultural
practices. The meeting must be followed by visits to some of the other group
members' farms.
Organization
7.       In order to improve efficiency and accountability at all levels from
the Ministry down to the farm level, extension staff should:
(a)  comply with precise visit programs which would enable
supervisors to locate and closely monitor their staff at any
time and ensure at field level that farmers would get extension
support at regularly scheduled times;



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
(b) be exempt, as much as possible, from all non-extension
activities; and
(c) be kept well informed of their tasks and the way to carry them
out successfully through thorough discussion at monthly
meetings, which wouid involve research staff.
Visit Program
8.       The strict respect of the visit program (4 days a week) is
particularly important at the farmers' level because this new approach would
generate a system in which farmers could rely on getting timely and
appropriate technical support and administrative help (filling forms for
inputs, credit, etc). It is therefore important that the fortnight visits
(para 6) be carried out the same day at the same hour during the whole growing
season. Farmers would then be sure to have an opportunity to meet the
extension agents to discuss their problems. In addition, in case of
emergency, they would be able to locate the extension agent during a meeting
with another neighboring group, thus reducing the time they have to spend
going to the extension center with no assurance of finding the right person.
The four days a week visit schedule should be established by the extension
agent and his CT/CMV chief extensionist prior to the growing season and after
approval by the regional extension director, it should remain unchanged
throughout the season. During the off-season period that schedule would be
relaxed.
9.       The frequency, content and need for all existing reports would be
reviewed and reduced as far as possible. Office work would be reduced as much
as possible and reserved for essential report writing and form filling. It
would be carried out over 1 1/2 days a week.  In addition each extension agent
would maintain a daily diary of activities according to a standard format
prepared by DVRA.
10.      To be efficient extension staff need adequate transportation at both
the CT and CMV level, because farmers in the project area are often spread
over very large areas. Experience in Morocco, even when projects have
supplied additional vehicles for individual agents, shows that they are
irregularly available and costly to operate often with paid drivers.
Therefore, at the provincial and subdivision level, the staff would be
equipped with small cars, while extention agents at the CTs/CMVs would receive
motorbicycles or motocycles except in regions where, because farmers are
spread over very large areas or because of terrain or climate, they, too,
would get a small car.
11.      Transfer of non-extension activities:  A total transfer of
non-extension activities to other staff may not be feasible in the immediate
future because it could result increasing official staff and therefore
recurrent costs to an unbearable level for Government, but this should be
aimed at as soon as feasible since extension agents should, in principle,
devote full time to extension activities.
3 5 17



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
12.      Monthly Meetings:  Extension agents should meet regularly during the
last week of the month, or more often if required. This frequency would be
determined by the type of crops and the timing of the growing season.
Meetings would be held at the CT/,'MV center, under the chairmanship of the
regional ORMVA extension chief and with the participation of research staff
required by the problems to be discussed in order to:
(a) review field activities of the last month or fortnight;
(b) review problems which arose and how they were solved;
(c)  introduce the working program for the coming month and discuss
it; and
(d) give short refresher courses taught by subject matter
specialists prior to the key periods of the growing season.
These meetings could eventually be extended over two days if the
subjects to be discussed require it.
B. Technical Support and Coordination with Research
13.      Since a well-organized extension service would be meaningless if it
cannot propose technically, economically and socially reliable messages
relevant to farmers' needs, great attention should be paid to the technical
support that research can provide to extension. Extension staff would be kept
informed of the latest improvements in cultural practices and therefore,
should be able to rely on highly qualified technicians to solve critical
issues which can occur during the growing season.
14.      For that purpose extension agents have to be backed up at
regional/ORMVA level by a group of subject-matter specialists whose
qualifications would meet project needs. This team would include experts,
drawn from existing staff in provincial ORMVA departments as far as possible
or seconded for the research organization to extension services, and from at
least the four following specialities: training and extension, livestock,
pest control and agronomy. The group composition would be adapted to the
region's main productions by adding other specialists such as a forester, a
farm economics expert, etc. SMS would devote full time to their speciality
and would carry out the following activities:
-    coordinate with research
-    prepare booklets on recommended cropping practices for the main
crops;
-    select and prepare extension messages in cooperation with
farmers and research;
-    prepare and carry out refresher courses;
-    provide emergency technical support to cope with casual problems;
-    train staff; and
-    carry out adaptive trials.
3 517



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
Coordination with research
15.      Formal links between extension and research would be established at
regional or at ORMVA level so that farming requirements could be discussed and
research could look for appropriate solutions and get farmers' feedback. To
complete and improve that cooperation, action would be required at two
sensitive levels: subject matter specialists and field trials:
(a) in addition to regular monthly meetings frequent contacts
between subject matter specialists and research staff would keep
each other informed of the specific problems faced by both
parties and of their requirements (i.e. demand for defining the
most cost effective - not necessarily the most productive -
quantity of inputs to be used, etc).'
(b) at field level also both staff have to be aware of the
constraints and requirements of each agency to improve their
understanding; therefore trial and demonstration plots at the
farmer's level should be established jointly, extension staff
would carry out cultural practices and research staff technical
treatments and observations.
Recommended Cropping Practices, Preparation of Extension Messages and
Refresher Courses:
16.      It would be the joint responsibility of SMS and research/development
units of INRA to prepare small booklets which would summarize recommended
practices for each crop. This literature, written in the country's language
and illustrated by clear and attractive drawings, would be used by extension
agents and distributed to literate farmers. In liaison with the Monitoring
and Evaluation unit, subject matter specialists, assisted by extension and
research staff, would also build in "diagnostic surveys" to study farmers
system constraints and in the light of these findings they would prepare
messages for the extension agents prior to key periods of the growing season,
provide, when necessary, appropriate materials to promote these
recommendations and prepare extension agents to carry out those tasks during
monthly meetings (para 12).
Emeriency Support
17.      In addition to information and training activities, subject matter
specialists would be permanently and directly available to the extension
agents when they have to cope with critical problems. Since these problems
often need immediate action, all formal and administrative circuits would to
be bypassed, but it would be tne extension agent's obligation to inform his
direct supervisors.
8. Training.
18.      The major part of extension agents training would involve farmwork in
order to train staff to demonstrate efficiently in the field the methods they
are promoting. Initiation would as far as possible always be by working with
an experienced extension agent. Thereafter three types of training would be
envisaged (a) refresher courses over one or two days (para 13) to keep field
agents informed of the latest cropping developments and prepare them for the



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
on-coming tasks; (b) off-season general training carried out over two weeks
sessions to improve their general knowledge and their efficiency; and (c)
specialized training for agents appointed to regions where crops need special
care such as citrus and vegetables. Consideration should be given to
establishing orientation training during the initiation period.
19.      The two weeks training sessions are aimed at developing general
knowledge of the extension agents and extending it to skills which are not
generally taught in agricultural schools such as extension methodology,
communication, promotion of farmers' associations, cooperatives, etc. This
training could be carried out either on project premises or in agricultural
schools or training centers according to the available facilities. They would
be organized by the extension directors at the provincial/ORMVA level and
matters taught would be chosen according to the development targets of each
region. They would be supplemented within the framework of the work program
and adapted to any changes or requirements of the work program. Teaching
would be carried out either by agriculture staff or by teachers from
agricultural schools or university. These courses would be compulsory for all
extension staff and would be carried out in winter or other such period when
field work is at it lowest level.
D. Incentives for Axtension Agents
20.      Extension agents at field level are at the bottom of civil servant
salary scale and any salary increase seems impossible without a complete.
change in the government's salary structure. Therefore, in addition to
establishing a sense of professionalism, which the restructuring described
above should do, other incentives to keep extension agents at work, often in
remote areas, are to provide them, as much as possible, with some attractive
benefits like decent housing within their working area, some type of bonuses,
possibilities for promotion, public recognition, etc. according to the
project's possibilities.
E. Other Extension Activities
21.      The extension service tasks described above would not be a substitute
for some existing activities which can be usefully integrated as a complement
to the working program with the exception of demonstration plots managed by
Ministry officials which, in general, have been found useless. These
activities usually include:
-    films, radio and TV messages which will be intensified according
to the farmers' development;
-    information days for farmers;
-    performance awards to farmers; and
-    production contests, plowing contests, etc.
F.  Research/Development Approaches in High Risk Areas
22.      In low and erratic rainfall areas (less than 400 mm/year) which
present high investment risks and for which no clear packages have yet been
developed a new approach involving close cooperation of research and farmers
with extension would be tested. The extension organization would be similar
3 5 1 7



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
to the contact group system described above but the activities at farm level
and their preparation would be carried out by joint teams farmers/research/
extension which would deal with the farming system as a whole and include
production, technical, economic and social factors. The joint teams would:
(a) analyze farming systems including external components, i.e., forest
grazing, and diagnose issues preventing development; (b) define feasible
solutions thus giving farmers a possiblity to choose the most adapted to their
own situation; (c) supervise implementation and maintenance of test plots; and
(d) promote results of successful techniques among other farmers' groups.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
23.      Evaluation of the impact of extension on agricultural production and
farm income should be one of the main objectives of the monitoring and
evaluation unit. That unit should provide regional/ORMVA extension management
with a constant flow of information aimed at monitoring project activities and
eventually at modifying the extension approach through adapting extension
activities and messages to the situation. The monitoring and evaluation unit
would therefore focus on determining:
-    the rate of adoption of improved culcural practices and operational
progress;
-    the eventual bottlenecks in improvement and their origin;
-    the recommendations for adapting the extension approach to farmers
requirements; and
-    the effectiveness of extension services and the impact of extension
messages on farmers' farming systems and income.
The monitoring and evaluation unit would also provide assistance in developing
the overall extension strategy in the project area.
3517



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Status of Research by Crop and Discipwines
Research by Crop
Although they need significant improvements, the ongoing research
programs have already produced improved technologies whose application could
lead to substantial crop increases. The current status is as follows:
(a)  cereals:  The main food crops, namely durum wheat, bread wheat and
rainfed barley are classified first priority for the government.
Work has focussed on variety creation or adaptation, resistAnce to
local diseases and chemical weeding. About 13 varieties of durum
wheat, 4 of bread wheat and 6 of barley have been introduced in the
official catalogue since 1984. The cereal sector benefits from
significant support from USAID for agriculture in arid zones, mainly
for durum wheat, bread l-heat and barley in the CRRA of Settat.
(Imp. Vol. Annex I, Appendix 7) Research work is also underway on
maize with focus on selection of improved varieties and creation of
hybrids for irrigated and rainfed areas, and on triticale. However,
more work is now required to address genetic improvement, resistance
to diseases, cultural practices, cropping patterns, and improvement
of technological qualities of bread wheat in order to increase local
production and self sufficiency level;
(b)  rainfed forage crops are classified first priority for the Government
and research work has been efficiently supported by German bilateral
aid (GTZ) in the following areas: adaptation of new varieties,
fertilization, weed control and inoculation. Some successful results
have already been obtained in improvement of wild vegetation
development, fodder beet and ter orary pastures production but the
program needs to be expanded ovet larger areas. In addition, new
disciplines such as improvement of pasture systems based on fallow
and utilization of annual legumes have to be added to complement
ongoing works.
(c) red meat production, although classified first priority, has not
benefitted from sustained attention in the past, however, INRA has
isolated and is working on the D'MAN breed which can be raised under
confined production systems. Greater attention should now be paid to
the improvement of sheep stock, particularly the improvement of local
species: (1) breeding and commercial breeding, (2) feeding, (3)
problems of feeding during grass dormancy periods, and (4) grazing
ratios;



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(d) oil crops are classifed among the first priorities, but except for
genetic improvement of olives, these crops did not benefit from
enough research work to increase the self sufficiency level in oil
production as requested by Government policy. Consequently, this
component needs urgent development of research for olives
particularly or selection of local nlones, resistance to
tuberculosis, cultural practices and adaptation to agro-industry
requirements. For oil seeds, with the exception of selection of
adapted varieties of safflower, sunflower, rape and soyabean, very
little work has been done and research needs to be urgently developed
in all disciplines particularly on cultural practices for all crops,
rape without erucic acid, safflower in arid zone, etc.;
(e) fruit trees. In this sector, classified as second priority, long
term research has focused on (i) apricots, for which clones selection
is successfully underway to achieve greater diversification, obtain
varieties adapted to canning factories and improve taste. More
research is needed to boost production and exports, particularly
through extending the production period; (ii) almonds. Well-adapted
varieties have been developed, however, more selection work is still
needed in parallel with the introduction of new varieties and tests
of overgrafting in traditional plantations; (iii) other species
research is lacking on new species recently introduced in Morocco
such as peacher, plums, pears and apples, which all are developing
without proper guidance;
(f) citrus are classified as second priority. In recent years, Moroccan
production was declining both in terms of productivity and quality
and research has therefore to be developed particularly on clone and
variety selection, cultural practices and plant protection. In the
meantime, production of sound and productive seedlings through
micro-grafting has to be encouraged.
(g) vegetables are classified as second priority. INRA participates with
other research scientists from IAV, SASA and the ORMVAs in programs
concerning trials of new foreign varieties, plant protection and
greenhouse cultivation practices. Much work still remains to be done
for these crops, particularly in the area of evaluation and
classification of germ plasm, improvement of seedling production for
export, cultural practices, introduction of new vegetables,
greenhouse production, and plant protection to make Morocco
competitive with other exporting countries in foreign markets;
(h) sugar crops are still classified as second priority but have declined
in importance. For sugar beet, INRA's activities focus on seed
production, adaptation trials in different ecological areas of the
country, and production increase. Sugar producers prefer to import
their seed and have not paid much attention to these works.



62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Since sugar beet and sugar cane production is becoming questionable
in some regions of Morocco, these crops are becoming less of a
research priority for the Government;
(i) pulses are a third priority of the Government while their production
has been steadily declining for several years. However, INRA has
carried out successful trials with USAID in Settat on winter cropping
of chick peas which shows great advantage compared to traditional
cultivation and should therefore be continued and developed.   This
component also benefits from ICARDA support through secondment of two
research scientists for food pulses; and
(j) other crops. Research is practically at a standstill for crops such
as cotton, hibiscus, tea, and spring cereals, for which growing areas
are very limited. Research on Bayoud which threatens all date-palms
is maintained with UNDP assistance but needs to be developed in order
to prevent total destruction of Moroccan plantations.
Research by Discipline
Research by discipline and groups of disciplines include three main
sectors: (a) general agronomy which involves cultural practices, cropping
patterns, fertilizer use, etc. in relation to Morocco's different crops and
soils; (b) physics of the environment which involves inventory of agricultural
resources, study of their development possibilities (bioclimatology,
pedology), soil conservation and mapping; and (c) phytiatry, including pest
control and warning network. Except for selection work, general agronomy had
not progressed significantly and until reorganization trials were repetitive
and not sufficiently oriented to answer farmers' requests. The department of
physics of the environment needs to be extended to better meet agricultural
development particularly in the areas of soil analysis, soil mapping, water
management and water saving techniques. Phytiatry was evaluated as doing well
but with the developing resistance of pests and the continuous arrival of new
chemicals on the market, its activities should be developed and in the
meantime, extended to forage and oil crops.



- 63 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Guidelines for Improvement of INRA's Financial Management
1.       INRA Is a public enterprise with financial autonomy under the aegis
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reform, but it is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Finance to decide on the budget allocation, provide
financing, and carry out a priori control of expenditures. The Ministry of
Finance is therefore in position to impose a number of additional processing
constraints which usually results in insufficient and untimely financing of
the research programs and the failure of most them.
2.       Under the proposed reforms, detailed in the Implementation Volume,
Annex IV, INRA will retain its present status of a public enterprise and its
accounting will continue to be managed according to rules applicable to public
entities because the major part of its income will remain government
subsidies. Under these conditions a private accounting system is not
justified. However, the present system needs to be significantly improved and
particularly, it should become more flexible by simplifying the budget
presentation and increasirg the ceiling applied to expenses made through "bons
de commande" and force account. On the other hand, a system of a posteriori
control at the end of each fiscal year should be established to ensure
adequate monitoring.
3.       In order to adapt INRA budgetary and financing organization to the
increasing role of the agency under the new project, reforms include:
(a) Establishment of INRA's real financial autonomy and definition of the
Ministry of Finance's tutorship;
(b) Decentralization of the accounting management;
(c) Testing decentralization in two Regional Research Centers (CRRAs):
Meknes and Marrakech.
Obiectives of the Proposed Reforms
4.       Objectives of the reforms required to improve INRA's budgetary and
financing management are the following:
(a) make a clear distinction between the two functions of the budget: (a)
investment; and (b) operating costs;



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) ensure preparation of INRA budget in light of present financing
uncertainty;
(c) obtain more flexibility of the present procedures for budget
execution;
(d) decentralize the budgetary accounting to CRRAs;
(e) guarantee regular fund supply to regional centers; and
(f)  organize a posteriori control for internal and external budgets.
5.       Implementation of the above objectives would involve a package of
measures and decisions summarized below:
(a) distinction between budgets: the internal budget would approximately
follow the present budgetary lines. Breakdown of expenditures would
be made by CRRA and research programs and costs accounting would be
generalized. The external budget would be regrouped in 3 or 4
lines. General studies (EGS) would be reintegrated in the operation
budget;
(b)  preparation of INRA budget:  Preparation of the budget would be
simplified through: presentation of documentation produced by
operating units which would be based on norms rather than on detailed
calculation; estimation of budget requests based on prior fiscal year
expressed in percentage (increases or decreases) per budgetary item;
keeping a reasonable number of budgetary items; and making clear the
level of priority of proposed expenditures;
(c) increase flexibility of budgetary procedures: These measures would
essentially concern small expenses directly related to the day to day
work implementation, which have to be disbursed quickly. Therefore
it would be recommended to: simplify the procedure to issue the
"bons de commande"; raise to 30,000 DR the amount of advances for
urgent work carried out under force account with a_posteriori
justification; raising the ceiling for "bons de commande" from 50,000
DU up to 100,000 DH with yearly adjustments in line with inflation;
increase the advances to the CRRAs to 50,000 Dl and keep a constant
minimum level of available advances at 20,000 DH through systematic
transfers; delegate preparation of local bidding documents to the
CRRAs; and simplify processing procedures for approval of "bons de
commande";
(d)  decentralization of budgetary accounting:  CRRAs would have total
responsibility for their accounting and their accounting division
would have direct access to the "agent comptable" at headquarters and
progressively to the regional "agent comptable" as they would be
appointed to regions; base budgetary units would be kept informed
constantly of their account balance; and commitment accounting, cost
accounting and aggregate accounting would be computerized;



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(e) guarantee of regular fund supply to CRRAs: Due to the present
financial constraints a system would be implemented to keep managers
informed of their budgetary situation throughout the year, to share
out available funds and to keep them informed in advance of likely
budget allocations. INRA would also benefit from a revolving fund to
ensure regular disbursement and, as soon as they become available,
funds would be allocated to each regional center;
(f) implementation of a posteriori control: A posteriori control is the
requisite measure to control the new, more flexible financing system,
which should be implemented to give INRA the possibility to ensure
timely financing of its operations. It would be implemented through
the three following complementary checks: permanent budgetary
control, intarnal operational audit and punctual control missions
carried out by the "Inspection des Finances".



~-MxepmI                    ~mm1                                        4 ~       im
OWN206'a             WN"p~'a    jol
^n               tEuE1    EIn
&otmu,     _^nQI ofiu                      Zcfiq                     polpw
_               P             _              _             _ PA_                       r           r_
00**O6        _4oomol                      ust                      &O*_SMe        s              D11 1e
7      (                       ~~~~~~~~~~~(qom    (         -AP              (q          r
am"-         ' Ho00*V-M      qXotr4     -DqxW-opW*     uvm*tP           Or     I    Prixo
II NYUOIIW9U
GP ~ ve         qerrvlenI
MW                                             ups       I       o I"a 
,,*                      ==P ,  ,,,s[,            
I H q~tI I              X G_ *bar
IDown~|                                r 
H I EH r ~~~~~~~~~~~ 9 



MAROC
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISAMON AGRICOLE
Orftion du nleau conthal
MOtderAW10nt_        ___  
debtoR6htme.ogr
Mh~~re da rsqlcunureetdeCa M3tTnaib1u* 
-semet*9 Gin
PmctMion                           E 1net Rxft et         Davageon ci k                                                                     adco
+,         W               u                               vdbnet              ....,
IflCOlIOf  IRotcfinl   IouxeFcrOts.t                        du Pabtntw                                Pmfaducvwtlo        mlri
DMda                               DMlbnndeCMid
dBsSbuchpgkcoK*                                      et evkat
Fas ct~ues                         SP
Vlmm                 et du            A"*I 1W
CW 9o_Idd   140
14



ORGANIGRAM4 ITI
- 68 -
|21Xz    Iii                                          i 
~~~~~~~~I                                     I'
*      Si          a



KINGOOM OF MOROCCO/ROYAIIME DUI MAROC
AGRKCULTURAL RESACH & E            ON PROJECT/PROJET DE RECIERCI* E DE WLARSAON AGRKXC E
1menIaI N Chow Phase 1/Echenciw   e phase
Reasch Component] Voe echershe
k ileld *t omgs           P Pl            P2               P3               PM               P15
I9UB            1989             a9m              1991             1992             1993
_   2   3   4   1   2   3   4  I      2   3   4 1     2   S   4   I   213   4   I   2   3  4
A t0IIULCEONAL C tHANSEMISE E PLACES STRUCU__ES
-AROcaWli RonarCh0 ft S   0 amSIstcowpkde$tficuI                                                 
-FeUmps& Conhocts (5 YeaY)xms et ergogenwws de S am
- Ac *  l& Rhnk 9 ,Wn9Vir ctxpable det                                           _ _ _  
-      r        3 A    Co  /A        d 3     r
- Set1  L*p d Cocdnatiwn Ur */MaM  oe de ra*e de coadraho c
- DeWM9on dlte  PactionSifom o_ r_ _
D^oftlon du peogrwoe aI bW res de pmCcn
B RECRUlMb OF P IERONLA0JEL A RECXJEtM
-E       lu                                                                        t11             16 0             17 .             18 _              9
-bdwWct AgoWA entAAc v                                 5                                          2 20             15 _             t5 _t8
-dRjiAmWord/AmWo1anto&c*lu
C- WMlES (DE . CRRA + PROGRAMS)flESUSS80ET (DE + CARA + PROGRAMES)                                                                                       I   j 
-EcqWnwctkwCowmihon & T- pa lo                                                                      San et r|
- eerhdaS:N                   sv                                             I          I   I                Ir   .I  
P actWmdE d E /wtAof deo boob                                                                                 P Ii
DAPPRL OF DE SCOND PFASE/EVALABON DE IASECONDEPE Al l
EMl WIuEWMONMB4 OIEN                                                                                                                                      II|I
Yd Bc -  4353:2



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ROYAUE DU MAROC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH a EXTENSION PROJECT/PROJEt DE RECHERCHE Er DE VULGAR;sAnON A4RICOLE
Implementoli  Choit Pha9e *fEcheanclser I r phse
0dEenon Componet/VoeVulodson
.og__Pftl Aw4PMw         WI              P2               WP3               W 4fl5
496_            9969              1990 _99 _992 =993
9   2  S   4   4   2   3   4   I   2   3   4   1   2 13   4   *   2   3   4   i   2   3   4
- Actlon Pln(Ia/CW/J/i toction LTCMV                                                                                                          MOM
-  -mo WE/l~ PgMmpGon0 IomnVrgrv S/I
S, 61IMlfON4L CKAW4MSEU EN P-ACa SMUCIL3SI
-DD A ~ ,Wb Mwk _eww CaoW/o  _%                                                                                            * _              * _
- Pio r*et U/CsE= i _r nSl                                            _   _
- ALk W WAW :ACM
-        k
-- Mos*v  Dw d awt-w/Rox*d Cal -                                              *&*%             *                * 4 0   
- aUMi SW0"e EMOSIAC OA0ttO On _                                            I
-       Toctw sc ttlsb l                                   i
C ERONE TO REC jT/PERSONELA RCEUMR
-        -vwwvl                                                       2580             19.0              8o
- Ede on D btsi                                                       11w   
=__ u Iect                                                                                 ;             I                                 I
-           1                                                       ---           -   -sr -;  -   -   - 
-O~ThNm~)                                                                  VA  WA Oft)                              LI
R oonWSW%dwWdon (No,)                                                                 - -           I IIEEP -- -
-                                                                                WI' -    -r vl    lw   w               -  
4*CVW kingAnand
D.*V*W                    t       l    i  L    E 3         l                                   S
a,sildA                                                     WA I
-.,dtilfflooet                                         _1___                                                      ,   
-a/Equmwtdsl_l    
-~~~~~~~~c,OvW cWoLnowmbs                                                         Um          Sv.oW,MAuWefElud           ccAM-   0    IMII  
-1;gs*o)                                           I    I I I 0K*/WKkx5 i-ot 
_,,s,,,~~NutrCr~n*(Ndp) l naofitolmkc*Odchpo", -                                                                                     B __ -__M3



IBRD 19938R
e i                                                    a    M r m                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Me di t e  r an e an  Seao/  
Sp9mum                                                                       ORMVA          O                                                          ,   - '
At lcitic                                                                                                                                                                vot
Ocean                        Jil}                  I, roh    S s
8~~H1/  n  --2isl-  --s !RMV W,-\'
E  D  REHRCHA L G E R E  A
.  91                             ZONE O R M VAVT ,                  A V 
ARZAZATIT O 4                                                                             M   AN      RZAIAELL
PI~~~~~~~141FO  IVOERI  NAEL  00
-   /    eRMVN                                       O    E        C       BY                             MO R O             C CCAO
RDEENTE D_MISE E  At  U               SS    AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  AND
I tOUSA                                                                             EXTENSION                PROJECT
CE  TA A DU  T                                    PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET                                     0
/ / zT V . XT DE VULGARISATION  AGRICOLE
TOR.T.I                                               -   T-   1    EXTENSION   CEN t   O S                    EXTEN SION CO VERAG E    (PHASE           O)
i-    D'S CETS DR TA AUAZONES COUVERTES PAR  NA VULGARISATION (lere PHASE)
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I >_                                                          MT oF 400 mm. MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL
-    PINCER   RCULTUR DIR M SE CN VALEBUR DANS IICEOFFIES                       NAT INAL CARITA       A
/OD^hlllm  8  {~~~~~~~~~~~-1   / ~~~SUR Le POJET (CMVJ                                                                          C4PITALE DETAT
Sr .                l    X   /                {                           -    EXTENSION CENTERS COVERED BY PROJECT                                    INTERNATIONAI BOUNDARIES
/   I   ,i   {           v                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRES EnAVAUX DU PROJET (CT)                - -FRONTWOMS D'EUA
LIMIrS DES OffICES REGIONAVX CIE MIWS EN VALEUY AGRICOLXE OMVI -       INTRNATIONLOUDAIS DTA (APPROXIMA TE)
f < j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PWICHE.EX   ~_x  AGRlCUL7                                        (DIETPA)E HEDUATR                               ORMVA HEADQ;UARTERS
oTmTr                                    |                                         _    _  EXTENSION CENTER BOUNDARIES                                          INDICATES THE TERRITORY Of THE fORMER
| * I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MERS DES CENTRE$ DE MiAVAUX                                                                    ------   SPANISH SAHARA t.ESTFRN SAHARAl
-7f   +  rtp                  |                                    _ ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVINCE AGRIrCULTUNsA'eDIRECTORcATEBUNDEARIctUES    I NDOUE LETERRtITNOR Of I^s^ANclErI
T  LURRTEU DES DIRECTTONU PROTNC(AUEU DE IADRICIJL TURD                  SAHARA ESPAONaSAHARA OC       aCNrlI
MkAR H T9RE



IBRD I9R
Th,,o.v  A,|SA od '             i ro imnr       Sea
| MOROCCO  tt>                                                                        
VIM VA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ORV
1      .- IWLOBi                                    . MT                             AlWS MO    'YA-
hJ..
-~eww_e^                                                                   __ ORMVA -V
GnARl i eHVeH              TME   MQd 'g'/ r              SeT a.
{D;~~~~~~~~Mm SkT                                                         5._40
,, & _<9 y < ~~~', ALG E R IA
.    t.    OM A 4'\\    '  e55z                            TA  l  A,'f    >ORORMVCCA
.  --'?    HAOUZ izJ,  ,,/"   J            3             @        S AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
( '   ,/  /(   ORA1VA/f              $t                >      -~~~'   EXTENSION  PROJECT
t9OtR&VA   <           U~~~~LARZAZATE t                               i-- PROJET DE RECH-ERCHE ET DE
GHAR  ~         K~VJLAIATO   GRCL
SOUSS5t                                                               U   + S \ *L   EXPEReMENTAL STATIONS AND REGIONAL RESEARCH
e d ,,J f \ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOMAlNES EX,ERIMENTAUX ET CENTRES RfGIONA,UX
25  MASSA X t > 2,, X > 8 *~~~~~4                                               DE RECHERCHE AGRONiOUIIE
El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
<+s?_-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA OF 4E i.. PAA ANUA RJ.JNFAi Ft
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BFRANA STTOS >E  REPORTSs.?A                                       ....8
gJ  \   )          v                            llM~~~~~~~~~~~~~DANES t ESERAIEHTAU  AEROPOFTS
ON,111    n      SECONDPE                       *     AFTOALECPTAL
<@G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENTRE. REQIOL010AUXDEl RECHEACHE,                               ___11TESDESTiONLBUNDARES
i;> | ~~~~~LARGE SCALE IRRGATION ARIAlS.          FINTRNTONALE BROUNDAIEES (APEOSRATI
Tcrl-Ton  ,                          EJJSII S plRRIGArlOEN'STIN           USTSANT                             PEOFITEES DETAT (APPRXIATWVEI
t      |  t _1    fL1TL!RE                              Ft'RAa~~~~~~~~~~~~LARESDEUS OFFICES REGIONALUJ DMISE  INDIQUE ERIERSITOR EANOE
. 2aX I er F~~~~~~~~~PSUEi                              u      r             EN VALELURADJCOLE (OEM VA)  *        .SAHARA ESPAGNOL (SAHARA OCODEN TALl
MARCH 1959



