Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16492
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3036-MOR)
April 16, 1997
Natural Resources and Environment Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Moroccan Dirham (DH)
Appraisal year average (1989)    US$ 1 - DH 8.00
Intervening years average (1990-1995)    US$ 1 = DH 8.84
Completion year average (1996)    US$ I = DH 8.76
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CREPA          Centres regionaux de perfectionnement agricoles
Regional Agricultural Training Centers
CRRA           Centre regional de la recherche agrooiomique
Regional Center for Agronomic Research
CT             Centres de travaux
Extension Center
CTIO           Centre technique interprofessionnel des oleagineux
Interprofesional Technical Center for oil crops
DAA            Administrative Affairs Division
DCR            Regional Centers Division
DERD           Direction de  eenseignement de la recherche et dii developpement
Directorate of Education, of Research and of Development
DPA            Direction provinciale de I agricuilture
Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
DVA            Agricultural Extension Division
DVRA           Directorate of Extension and Agrarian Reform
ENA            National Agriculture Institute
GIRA           Grauipement interprofessionnel de la rech7erche agronomiqle
Interprofesional Association for Agricultural Research
GIS            Geographical Information System
IAV Hassan 11  Institut agricole et veterinaire Hassan II
Agricultural and Veterinary Institute Hassan II
INRA           National Institute for Agricultural Research
ISNAR          International Service for National Agricultural Research
MAMVA          Ministere de IAgriculture et de la mise en valeur agricole
Ministry of Agriculture and for Agricultural Development
MARA           Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reform
MTR            Mid-Tern Review
ORMVA          Office regional de mise en valeur agricole
Regional Office for Agricultural Development (Irrigation)
PPO            Programming by Objectives
SRD            Research and Development Service
Vice President: Kemal Dervi§              Division Chief: Mark D. Wilson
Director:    Daniel Ritchie                Task Manager: Charles Ameur



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3036-MOR)
Table of Contents
P R E F A C E  ........................................................................................................................................i
EVALUATION SUAYRY ..................... - ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT. .1
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .....................................                    1
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................................                    2
General ..................................... 2
Research .....................................                                      2
Extension .....................................                                     6
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .....................................                   9
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................                              10
E.   BANK PERFORMANCE .....................................                                    11
F.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................... 11
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..                  .....................................12
H.   FUTURE OPERATION .....................................                                    12
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNT .....................................                                  13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  1:      Summary of Assessments
Table  2:      Related Bank Loans
Table  3:      Project Timetable
Table  4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table  5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table  6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table  7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:      Project Costs
Table 8B:      Project Financing
Table  9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A    Aide-Memoire
B. Research Component
C.  Extension Component
D.  Project Cost and Financing
E.  lNRA's Contribution (Summary)
F.   Map
TCI PROJECT REPORT SEEET



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3036-MOR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research
and Extension Project in Morocco, for which loan 3036-MOR in the amount of US$ 28.0 million
was approved on April 18, 1989, and made effective on March 21, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, one year behind schedule. This applied only to
the research component of the project. The original closing date of June 30, 1995 was maintained
for the extension component. A total of US$ 5.8 million was cancelled (US$ 4.9 million on
November 29, 1995 and US$ 0.9 million on April 16, 1996). Final disbursement was concluded on
November 30, 1996 at which time a balance of US$ 173, 209 was further cancelled. Cofinancing
for the project, in the amount of US$ 9.9 million, was provided by KfW, GTZ and the French
bilateral assistance.
The draft ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP', on the basis of initial discussions in
Washington with Mr. Charles Ameur, MN1NE Task Manager, and with Moroccan authorities
during a mission from September 23 to October 11, 1996. The report is also based on material
gathered from the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by drafting its
own Completion Report (October 1996), by arranging all field visits and discussions with central
and regional officers of the various agencies involved in the project implementation, and by
providing substantive comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. The report was finalized by Mr.
C. Ameur, Natural Resources and Environment Division of the Middle East and North Africa
Region, and reviewed by Mr. Mark D. Wilson, Division Chief, MN1NE.
1 Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/Mission Leader), P. Martini (Agricultural Research Specialist, Consultant) and J.
Russell (Agricultural Extension Specialist, Consultant).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3036-MOR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Agricultural Research and Extension Project was appraised in June 1987 and
approved by the Board on 18 April 1989, becoming effective on 21 March 1990. The project cost was
estimated at US$ 60.9 million towards which the Bank provided a loan of US$ 28.0 million. The
Borrower was the Kingdom of Morocco. The implementing agencies were the National Institute for
Agricultural Research (INRA) and the Directorate of Extension and Agrarian Reform (DVRA)1. The
original closing date was 30 June 1995 which was extended to 30 June 1996 only for the research
component of the project. Actual project cost was US$ 53.6 million and total disbursements were
US$ 22.0 million including US$ 12.1 million and US$ 9.9 million for the extension and research
components respectively. Final disbursement was concluded on November 30, 1996, leaving a balance
of US$ 173,209. Taking into consideration the US$ 5.8 million of the loan canceled, 79% of the
original loan was utilized and the overall disbursement rate amounted to almost 99%.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to establish efficient national research and extension
institutions for the development and dissemination of improved agricultural technology so as to
increase agricultural productivity, production of food, livestock and cash crops, and farmers' incomes
throughout the country.
The project consisted of a first five year time slice of a ten year program to reform research
and extension services. The research component included the: (a) reorganization of INRA; (b)
development of programming by objectives for 5 research priority themes including bread wheat,
forage crops, livestock, oil crops and olives; (c) decentralization of research management, and
development of two regional research centers; (d) rehabilitation of 13 research farms; (e) establishment
of 8 research/ development units; (f) strengthening of the information/documentation division at INRA;
(g) training, technical assistance and fellowships; and (h) improvement of lNRA's personnel and
financial management. The extension component included: (a) establishment of an extension service
at the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reform (MARA)2 ; (b) introduction of a new national
extension system based on the T&V system; (c) providing improved research and extension linkage
through the research development approach; (d) training, technical assistance and fellowships; (e)
Directorate for Education, Research and Development, now Direction de 1 'enseignement, de la recherche et du
developpement (DERD).
2 Ministry of Agriculture and for Agricultural Development, now Ministere de l'agriculture et de la mise en
valeur agricole (MAMVA)



reorganizing the audio-visual units for mass extension and (f) establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation
system.
Implementation Experience and Results
Research Component. In line with the SAR, the project was able to strengthen INRA's
management capacity and organization following the indications of previous studies conducted by both
INRA and the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR). The new
organizational structure for INRA as a whole is now functional. The decentralization of research activities
has been implemented. The number of engineers and of researchers employed by the regional offices has
risen from 87 to 169 since 1987. Four regional offices (Tadla, Settat Marrakech and Meknes) are
responsible for their own budget and bookkeeping. "Programming by objectives" (PPO) began in 1986 and
was considered satisfactory within each five research priority themes. Two of the eight Regional Agricultural
Research Centers (CRRAs) were strengthened and eleven research farms were rehabilitated. The
management of these farms, however, faced financial problems and their economic performance remains
below their potential. The project also financed the strengthening of eight Research and Development
Services (SRD) for which implementation has been considered satisfactory.
Extension Component. Achievements of the extension component were mainly qualitative.
They included: (a) instillation of a sense of professionalism among the extension staff; (b) enhancement of
demand for extension advice from those farmers participating in project activities, particularly contact groups
and co-operatives; (c) improvement in the number and the quality of audio-visual outputs; and (d) the
opportunity to compare the costs and benefits of various approaches to extension under a variety of
conditions. As foreseen at appraisal, an Agricultural Extension Division (DVA) and a central multi-
disciplinary team of subject matter specialists (SMS) were created at the national level within the
DERD. At the regional level, multi-disciplinary SMS teams were established and extension offices
were created in both the DPAs and the Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole (ORMVAs).
However, within the DPAs, these offices were part of a Development Service, and an Extension
Service as such was never created. In the ORMVAs, extension offices operated within a Service of
Extension and Professional Organizations. A planned National Extension Committee was not created,
and was replaced by a National Technology Transfer Committee. The project introduced in 56 CTs, as
well as in 19 "test' CMVs, a contact group extension approach, based on regular visits and on
continuous on-the-job training. The women's extension office in DERD has benefited from project in-
service training and from improvements in audio-visual materials. The project also ensured adequate
in-service technical training for SMS. Training for field extension agents at Centres Regionaux de
Perfectionnement Agricole (CREPA), which included about 1,400 sessions for some 40,000 trainees,
was less than successful. Production of mass extension materials was appreciably increased by 1995.
The monitoring and evaluation unit which was only created beginning of 1995, and which lacked
trained staff and proper equipment was never truly operational.
Major Factors Affecting the Project and Sustainability
Economic problems in Morocco closely tied to the drought of 1994/95 had severe
repercussions on INRA's operating budget and consequently reduced the financial resources per researcher.
The staff recruitment program was curtailed because of budgetary constraints. A number of extemal factors,
some occurring after the mid-term review (MTR), affected implementation of the extension component
111



These included: (a) the Government's severe budgetary constraints; (b) a series of lengthy and
disruptive reorganizations within MARA, DVRA and DPA; (c) high tum-over of staff, (d) insufficient
number of highly qualified and experienced personnel in positions of responsibility; (d) lack of
motivation especially of extension agents which had no statute and, of trainers who were not attracted
by the fees offered; (e) the issuing by MAMVA of Instruction No. 6, in 1995, restructuring the DPAs
but which affected the role of the Centres de Travaux (CTs) and left field staff concemed as to the
future of extension; and (f) insufficient means of transportation as a result of the Government's
reluctance to provide the necessary funds. The sustainability of the project as a whole is to be
considered uncertain. INRA continues to experience inadequate financial resources. The Govemment
estimates the T&V extension system, even modified to target contact groups rather than individual
contact farmers, as too expensive. Meanwhile, serious efforts to determine a clear strategy for
extension appear to be given second priority.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank's performance was satisfactory in its routine responsibilities of project
preparation, appraisal, supervision and disbursement. However, regarding the extension component, a
firrmer stance could have been taken to insist on creating central and regional monitoring and evaluation
units earlier in the project life. Regarding the research component, the Borrower's performance at
project formulation, preparation and implementation was particularly satisfactory for research and, up
to the mid-term review, for the extension component. From 1993 till the end of the project,
reorientation of extension became less well conceived, coordinated and communicated to regional and
field staff by the extension management team.
Project Outcome
The project undeniably strengthened INRA and greatly contributed to improve its structure
and working capacity. Although the extension component had problems and shortcomings, it was
generally successful in meeting its objectives up to the MTR. Beyond 1993, the overall implementation
of the extension component was below expectation for lack of a clear strategy as well as of serious
commitment to the setting up of a simple and operational monitoring and evaluation system to keep
track of the project's possible impact and sustainability. Because of the above mixed results and the
lack of any clear cut factor that would tilt the rating one way or the other, the overall project has been
found to be satisfactory.
Future Operations
The Ministry of Agriculture intends to continue to support agricultural research activities that
operate within an innovative research strategy. Such a strategy which still needs defining, would have to
involve the participation of professional organizations through, among other entities, the Interprofesional
Association for Agricultural Research (GIRA) set up in 1994. The DERD has elaborated a new extension
strategy based on increased decentralization (regionalization) of extension.  The strategy targets
farmers and farmer groups most in need of public sector extension assistance, and relies on a
Research-Extension approach to technology transfer through collaboration of individual SRDs with
partner DPAs, ORMVAs, co-operatives, and other professional organizations. The strategy however
falls short of any substantive proposals allowing the decision-makers to anticipate the way extension
iv



could evolve in the short, medium and long terrn, and the costs involved. Finally, because of the current
budget constraints, the Government does not intend to request further financing from the Bank for a
follow-up project in the forseable future.
Key Lessons Learnt
The key lessons learnt are: (a) the programming and budgeting by objectives is a complex
approach that required nearly three years to be properly adopted by 1NRA; (b) the latter successfully
adapted the approach while benefiting from the continuous support from ISNAR; (c) when research
embarks on complex restructuring it is unrealistic to expect fast disbursement from the project onset;
(d) research being a long term venture cannot operate on the basis of significant financial fluctuation
over time thus careful planning is necessary when considering modifying sources of financing; (e)
modifying an approach to extension especially at the national level requires a clear vision and the
defining of a strategy for extension at an early stage together with intense participation from farmers;
(f) when elaborating a strategy, decision makers must decide whether, extension should remain the sole
responsibility of the public sector or rely on a mix of public and of private interventions, the producers'
contributions to the cost of extension and, the amount of funds the Government is ready to commit to
extension on a regular basis; (g) the establishment of a statute for extension workers could have been
envisaged and concrete proposals passed on to the decision-makers; (h) the T&V system was ill-adapted to
the Moroccan context which is highly diverse; (i) at appraisal stage, the design of a proper monitoring and
evaluation system should be a critical element of any project, particularly those which are nation-wide in
scope and include restructuring activities; and O) when the institutional arrangements previously agreed upon
are substantially changed during project execution, as in this case after the lengthy reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture, the new situation should be formally reviewed and the appropriate modifications
made to the project design.
v






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3036-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The objectives of the project were to establish efficient national research and extension
institutions for the development and dissemination of improved agricultural technology so as to
increase agricultural productivity, production of food, livestock and cash crops, and farmers' incomes
throughout the country. The project aimed at reorganizing and strengthening the National Institute for
Agricultural Research (INRA) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reform (MARA),
Departnent of Extension and Agranan Reform (DVRA). A key objective was to improve the liaison
between research, extension and training services and farmers as a necessary condition to ensure
proper orientation of research work and better and faster transmission of suitable technical
recommendations to farmers.
2.        The project comprised a first five year time slice of a ten year program to reform research
and extension services. The research component included the: (a) strengthening of INRA's
management structure; (b) development of programming by objectives for 5 research priority areas
including work on bread wheat, forage crops, livestock, oilseeds and olives; (c) decentralization of
research management and development of two regional research centers; (d) rehabilitation of 13
research farms; (e) establishment of 8 research/development units; (f) strengthening of the
information/documentation division at 1NRA; (g) training, technical assistance and fellowships; and (h)
improvement of INRA's personnel and financial management in liaison with measures taken under the
second agricultural sector adjustment loan. The extension component, to be carried out through the
DVRA and the provincial agricultural extension services, included: (a) reorganizing extension services
into a strong specialized service; (b) implementation of a new extension system based on the Training
and Visit (T&V) system; (c) training, technical assistance and fellowships; and (d) establishing a
monitoring and evaluation system. Institutional arrangements for coordinating research and extension
programs were also to be strengthened.
3.        At appraisal, the cost of the 5-year time slice project was estimated at about
US$ 60.8 million. Financing included a Bank loan of US$ 28.0 million, a cofinancing of US$ 15.6
million, a Government contribution, including taxes and duties, of US$ 17.2 million and a cofinancing
of DM 13.5 million from KfW. The costs of the research and extension components were estimated at
US$ 30.6 million and US$ 30.3 million respectively.



B. ACIHEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General
4.        In line with the SAR, the project was able to strengthen lNRA's management capacity and
its reorganization following the indications provided by previous studies conducted by both INRA and
the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR). In general, reorganization of
extension services and initial establishment of the new system were satisfactory. The system of continuous
on-the-job training was set up in a form corresponding to that called for and the schedule of training was
reasonably well respected. The contact group approach to T&V extension, however, deteriorated sharply
during the final two years of the project Although there were a host of contributing causes, this decline
appears to be due chiefly to the fact that this approach, with its elaborate training programs and need for
assured transport is demanding in terms of resources and because for this reason it does not coincide any
more with the current cost-cutting policy of the Government A detailed description of the achievement of
project objectives by component is given below.
Research
5.        Support to INRA's reorganization. The new organizational structure for INRA as a whole
has been set up and is now functional. As of December 31, 1995, 84 of the 101 management posts had been
filled; the 17 posts still vacant were: four Head of Departments, two Program Chiefs, four Sector Chiefs and
seven Service Chiefs. The evolution of INRA staff from 1989 to 1996 is given in Appendix B, Table 1. The
decentralization of research activities has been implemented. The number of engineers and of researchers
employed by the regional offices has risen from 87 to 169 since 1987 (Appendix B, Table 2). Four of these
eight regional offices (Tadla, Settat, Marrakech and Meknes) are each responsible for their own budget and
bookkeeping. Such financial independence was not considered necessary for Tangier, Oujda and Agadir in
view of their low budget, nor for Kenitra because of its vicinity to Rabat The list of civil works included
construction of office space, laboratories, glass greenhouses, cold storage rooms and various other
buildings (Part I, Table 5). The sites earmarked were: DIF' headquarters, the regional centers in
Meknes and Marrakech, all headquarters of the five priority programs, and 13 research farms. As
planned, construction work was carried out at all the targeted sites but the number of research farms
was reduced from 13 to 11. However, construction costs turned out to be above estimate and had to be
revised. This not only entailed reducing the number of offices to be built but also required an upward
revision of the budget which was supported by GOM. The headquarters of the livestock program only
achieved an implementation rate of 65 percent. Twenty-six out of the 27 planned staff houses were
built or renovated. At the research farms, some 83 ha of land (well above appraisal estimate) have been
equipped with irrigation infrastructure. Tree plantations were established on 5 ha Both the research
farms and the programs were supplied with agricultural equipment for production and experiments.
Roughly 90 percent of the planned procurement program was carried out despite the increase in costs.
Laboratory equipment was provided to the two regional centers and to the five priority programs. Basic
equipment was also supplied to the Research and Development Service (SRD) and to the research
farms. Purchases were on the whole in line with what had been specified. Procurement of computer
Information and Training Division
2



facilities exceeded forecast expenditure by 40 percent. The purchase of vehicles was slightly below
estimate at 90 percent.
6.         The bookkeeping and budgetaiy system took much time to implement The first consultancy
firm ran into difficulties in setting up a Geographical Information System (GIS). Thus, the contract was
terminated in 1992. A new consultancy firm was selected in 1993; the contract entailed four phases leading
to the formulation and implementation of a bookkeeping and financial system. Only the first two phases
concening the identification of needs and of software programs have been carried out. The last two are
lagging behind to an extent that NRA is considering a revision of the contract
7.        "Programming by objectives" (PPO) began in 1986. The budgetary consequences of this
programming, and the outcome of the procedure, have not been uniformly measured. A cost assessment of
trials and research activities remains to be conducted in a standardized manner. So far only the oilseeds
program has established an accurate and open budget. It is ERA's intention to recruit an external
consultancy firm to launch a study on a program-by-program budgeting system. However, it should be noted
that, in spite of the project, due to the Government budget constraints, investrnent per researcher in current
term, estimated atDH 216,000 in 1990 decreased to aboutDH 160,000 in 1995 (AppendixB, Table 3).
8.         The recruitment of additional staff with science qualifications foreseen under the strengthening
of human resources program, has reached only 66% of the initial forecast e.g. 47 out of the envisaged 71
engineers and 27% technical agents e.g. 20 out of 73. Recruitment of data analysts fared better with five out
of the six posts being filled. Budgetary restrictions and various revisions to the development of programs,
account for this low level of recruitment. Long-term training, mainly at post-graduate level, reached only
38% of the initial forecast for the two-year grants and 24% for the one-year grants. Funds were provided by
French bilateral aid but no agreement was reached for a long-term program as funds could only be approved
on an annual basis. Rigid procedures account for such lower than expected results in the training program.
The fact that bilateral aid required trainees to carry out the study programs in France compounded the
problem of commensurating educational qualifications. On the other hand, the program of overseas short-
term study tours has been fully implemented.
9.         The Decree No: 2-83-311 of January 18, 1985 endowing INRA staff with special status,
underwent a number of revisions including Decree No. 2-92-223 of April 29, 1993. This latter decree
enhances the position of scientific and of technical staff by aligning their status to the teaching/research
branch and to the civil service branch respectively. The changes are intended to link the scientific staff's
career development to the actual performance in the field of research and to increase the researchers'
motivation and loyalty toward their institution.
10.       The process of assessing the performance of researchers began in 1993. The first practical test
for management-level staff in the scientific branch was carried out in 1995. However, the reliability and
objectivity of the method used did not satisfy either the researchers, the Administrative Affairs Division
(DAA) or the last Bank Supervision Mission. In addition, the budgetary restriction, that continued to prevail
further contributed to the negative performance of the exercise. The establishment of an intemal monitoring
system still remains within INRA's priority. For this purpose, in 1994, the General Inspection Office (GIO)
drew up a list of indicators conceming technical issues, dissemination and communication, training and
financial issues (contracts agreements). However, the validity of these key indicators is not yet approved.
11.       The Information and Training Division (DIF) has been working since 1993 on a plan to
redeploy human resources within NRA by reallocating existing staff as well as by new recruitments and
3



training programs. The plan aims at enhancing the relationship between program needs and the hunan and
financial resources available to the Tnstitute. The tendency is to regard staff training as an essential investment
for the nstitute that justifies medium and long term financing. Key indicators of project implementation for
the research component are given in Part It, Table 5 and detailed in Appendix B, Table 4.
12.       Development of pniority research programs. Before being selected for financing, the five
programns underwent an exercise in PPO following the methodology worked out jointly by 1NRA and
ISNAR, which ranks projects and their activities in order of priority. This exercise led to collegial and
systeratic discussions which first involved all decision makers and end users and then, for the short and
medium term programming, researchers, services, laboratories within the responsible departments. The PPO
approach was considered satisfactory within each individual program. However, some overlapping and
insufficient coordination was recorded between programs. Moreover, while the programs were appropriately
consolidated at headquarter level, satellite outposts were often neglected because of budgetary restrictions. In
some cases the attribution of responsibilities between the head of the Regional Center for Agronomic
Research (CRRA) and the head of the program was somewhat unclear despite measures taken by the
management The problem was particularly felt where financial resources are shared. The same applies for
the distinction between programs and scientific departments. These factors highlight the need to establish
priorities among research activities in line with a defined budget to be split among the various operators.
13.       The olives and oilseeds programs are the most advanced, clearly defined and concentrated in
space. The oilseeds program, for instance, is limited to the Meknes Region. The activities of the olives
program are centered in Marrakech and in a satellite outpost in Meknes. The operation of these two
programs are well coordinated and working relations with other departments/branches and programs are
satisfactory. The main results of the olives program include: (i) the improvement of planting material with the
identification and vegetative reproduction of two productive clones now available in nurseries; (ii) the
selection of foreign performing varieties for both irrigated and for the favorable rainfed areas (bour
favorable); (iii) the introduction of new cultivation techniques such as plantation density, pruning for
revitalization and regeneration, grafting, and herbaceous multiplication; (iv) the reduction of the alternate-
year lower yield phenomenon using pulverized gibberelic acid; and (v) the introduction of plant protection
methods aimed at integrated biological approaches.
14.       The oilseeds program included rapeseed and sunflower in favorable rainfed areas. The results
concemed the selection of varieties to adapt to different sowing seasons as well as the adoption of foreign
hybrids with characteristics responding to high production and to resistance to rrildew. Vanrous trials were
carried out, on the planting season, on the density and on the role of sunflowers in the crop rotation. Work on
rapeseed has led to the creation of a germplasm based on varieties already introduced, and to the
identification of the best harvesting conditions. This Program was carried out in collaboration with the
Interprofesional Technical Center for oil crops (CTIO). The funding of the technical assistance for both the
olives and the oilseeds programs was provided by France.
15.       The livestock and forage crops programs were implemented along a structure of activities
which was split into several satellite outposts which proved difficult to run. Both programs received technical
assistance funded by GTZ. At present, national coordinators for these programs have been designated. The
livestock programn is limited to sheep-raising systems. In the oasis programn, results have been achieved in
improving early lambing of the D'mane breed indicating an increase in lamb number ranging from 0.5 to 0.7
unit per ewe. In the crop/livestock program for the Atlantic rainfed area, double cross-breeding improved
meat productivity by 10-12 kg/animal sheep unit. The nutritional value of forage was increased by almost 50
4



percent by improving storage conditions (hay/silage). Results conceming the characterization of the
production systems, the management techniques of pasture land in the "oriental" area and the marketing
systems in the Middle Adas have been published In the poorly ramfed area (bour defawvrable), work is
being conducted on the Sardi and on the Boujaad breeds as well as on the use of agricultural by-products for
animal feed The fifteen-year long forage crops program established a forage-seed conservation unit that
hosts more than 9,000 accessions whose most interesting or significant genera, e.g. Medicago, Trifolium,
and Avana have been assessed. The selection program has led to the cataloguing of seven varieties of oats
and of four varieties of vetch. A further eleven varieties of vetch are in the process of being catalogued. Work
on agicultura practices in various agro-ecological environments has resulted in improved techniques. Six
surveys were conducted to characterize regional production systems and to reinforce the research/production
link The data is being analyzed. LasI, work carried out by the microbiology subprogram was able to
determine the pros and cons of inoculating pulses using various strains of Rhizobium
16.       The bread wheat program, initially received priority status. However, objectives were revised
in 1991 to expand the field of action to all cultivation systems in good rainfed areas. Besides bread wheat,
which continues to be the main crop in the selected agro-ecological area, the program now includes research
on other features including physical features, e.g. soil and climate, biological aspects, e.g. plants and
parasites, environments and socio-economic factors. The program, which is becoming a regional umbrella
program, would benefit from a clearer definition of activities, and from well established linkages not only
with the other research programs (oilseeds, forage crops, livestock), but also with the scientific departments
and laboratories (plant disease, pedology, biometrology) as well as with the CRRA of Meknes and the
Research and Development Service (SRD). The bread wheat program has selected certain varieties for their
productivity and their resistance to diseases. Verification work is now in progress on three other varieties for
resistance to high temperature and to glume blotch.
17.       Strengthening the CRRAs. The project financed the strengthening of two of the eight
CRRAs. The regional centers covering Sais-Middle Atlas in Meknes and Haouz-preSahara in Marrakech are
the headquarters for three priority programns, e.g. the olives in Marrakech, and the oilseeds and bread wheat
in favorable rainfed area in Meknes. They also run a fair amount of the livestock program's activities. Taken
together with the Center for Arid Area Agnculture (CAAA) at Settat, these centers constitute the core
through which agricultural research is being regionalized. In line with the loan agreement, an independent
accounting office, headed by an accountant, was created in Meknes, Marrakech, Tadla and Settat. Their
input greatly helped payment procedures. The creation and strengthening of the CRRAs not only facilitated
the management and execution of the programs but also brought the body of research in closer contact with
regional operators, including agricultural development agents at the Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
(DPA), extension agents at Extension Center (CT), farmers (farmers self help organizations, farmers
associations, and cooperatives) as well as with the researchers (universities and regional educational
institutions).
18.       Rehabilitation of research farms. Eleven research farms were selected to be included within
EiRA's activities. They represent the country's main agro-ecological areas. To ensure the smooth running
of the farms, the project upgraded infrastructure (buildings, irrigation networks, wells), purchased
agricultural equipment, vehicles and tools, recruited staff and provided training for technical agents to enable
them to conduct trials and experiments. Rehabilitation operations were also conducted on the eleven
research farms. As a result, performance improved and experiments work was facilitated. However, the
management of the farms faced a series of problems, including the financing of additional costs for the
experiments and the unclear utilization of the profits brought in by seed multiplication. Certain farms did not
5



obtain irrigation eqwupment needed for some of their trials. Both the physical and economic performances of
the farms are well below their potential. Thus, in 1996 INRA and GTZ launched a study aimed at
optimizing the farms' performance.
19.       Establishment of Research and Development Service (SRD) within the CRRAs. The
project financed the strengthening of eight SRDs, one in each of the eight CRRAs. SRDs are small teamns
generally comprising one engmneer and two technical agents provided with transport computers and
audiovisual equipment Their work is now running efficiently as they liaise locally with the DPA and the
Regional Office for Agricultural Development (ORMVA), with extension offices within 20 CTs and with
professional associations. The SRDs act at four levels: (i) Assessment: is conducted with farmers and
development authorities to identify both existing constraints as against research results. Assessments are
generally carried out in the field through small-group discussions with farmers representatively chosen
members; (ii) Validation: verification of results, grouped together in platforms, to be used as the basis for
follow-up demonstrations; (iii) Dissemination: the results obtained by the program, corresponding to the
needs identified at the assessment phase, are disseminated through demonstrations, workshops and
publications - the SRD bulletin of Meknes Agricontact is an excellent example -; and (iv) Monitoring and
Evaluation as to whether the results transferred have been adopted or rejected by farmers, the reason for it
and, the likely impact on their income.
20.       The SRDs which are coordinated at the center by the Regional Centers Division (DCR) play an
essential role in the transfer of technology and act as intermediary between research proper and research
users: extension agents, development agents, farmers' groups and individual farmers. In most cases, the
SRD is responsible for facilitating the dissemination of results readily available and help launch research
programs within selected and clearly defined geographic areas. The SRDs are increasingly active. However,
their field of action and their liaison with other institutions need to be better specified in order to maintain
sufficient flexibility and to avoid dispersion. The experience gained at Meknes by INRA/ISNARIGTZ is
most useful. However, the resource capacity of the SRDs needs to be further strengthened, notably in terms
of vehicles, publishing facilities and documentation back-up for inventorying extension. A small national
coordination structure should facilitate relations between the SRDs and the various research programs within
INRA.
21.        Strengthening the DIF. The project financed the construction of a documentation and printing
center, office and audiovisual equipment, teaching aids, offset pnnting facilities and photocopiers as well as
computers. For each of the regional centers the project provided libraries, meeting rooms and vehicles. The
DIF is now able to carry out keyword information research and is connected to database information centers.
It can fumish the regional centers with CD-ROM support (e.g. AGRIS). It also publishes two magazines"
El Awamia" and "Les Cahiers de la Recherche Agronomique" as well as various technical data sheets.
However, DIF staff need firther training and a photolibrary to illustrate publications.
Extension
22.       Reorganization of the extension service. As foreseen at appraisal, an Agricultural
Extension Division (DVA) and a central multi-disciplinaiy subject matter specialist (SMS) team were
created at the national level within the Directorate of Extension and Agrarian Reform (DVRA) now
Directorate of Education, of Research and of Development (DERD). At the regional level, multi-
disciplinary SMS teams were created and extension offices were established in the DPAs and
6



ORMVAs. Within the DPAs, these offices remained within the Rural Development Service (Service
de mise en valeur), and an Extension Service as such was never create. In the ORMVAs, extension
offices operated within a Service of Extension and Professional Organizations. A National Extension
Comnmittee, was not created, as originally planned by the project, but replaced by a National
Technology Transfer Committee. Although the specific structures called for were not created, the
reorganization as a whole was, by the end of 1990, well understood within DVRA and operational. It
was deemed necessary at the mid-term review to establish and to develop project-related extension
activities. Meanwhile, a reorganization of the DPAs in 1995 (Instruction No. 6) essentially did away
with the regional extension offices created by the project. Although some DPAs have managed to
retain an emphasis on the extension function by forming extension sections or cells in their newly
created Support to Profesional Organization Offices (Bureaux d 'animation et appui aux organisa ons
professionnelles) as part of the DPA Agricultural Production Service, some confusion exists both
regionally and locally over the future role of extension. The DERD and the DVA are now trying to
clarify the meaning and the impact of the instruction on the DPAs and on the CTs affected.
23.       Establishment of new national extension services. The project introduced in 56 CTs
(25 CT test-zone, two more than originally planned, 17 pilot CT (pilotes), and 14 integrated projects
CT (projets integres), as well as in a final total of 19 "test" CMVs, a contact group extension
approach, based on regular extension visits supported by continuous on-the-job training. This approach
was a modification of the Training and Visit (T&V) extension system known in some parts of Morocco
since the early 1980's. The project also supported on-going efforts in traditional "mass extension" and
in extension for women. In addition, a Research-Development approach to technology transfer was first
tested in three CTs, then in 19 as CRRAs were formed and collaborated together. By the project's
second year, large numbers of contact groups had been formed and a program of visits had been well
established. In 1992, over 330 field agents using the approach in project CTs and CMVs were working
with almost 7,500 contact groups (up from approxirnately 6,900 in 1990) to the benefit of some
300,000 farmers. Similar data for 1995 indicate a dramatic decrease to about 2,930 contact groups and
to only 79,000 beneficiaries. It is estimated that, during 1990-1995 a total 1,400,000 farmers,
benefited from the project's extension activities. Details of the evolution of this approach are presented
in Appendix C, Tables 1 and 2, and a summary of extension activities by year in Appendix C, Table 3.
Additional human and material resources were required to implement the extension program. Of the
additional extension personnel needed (Part II, Table 5), well more than the planned number of
professionals was actually recruited (67 recruited vs. 53 planned). Although only 65% of the
technicians expected to be recruited actually were (31 vs. 56), the overall goal of reinforcing the
extension personmel was accomplished, with a generally higher level of staff. Details on staff
recruitment by year are presented in Appendix C, Table 4, as are details on vehicles which generally
met or surpassed expectations, and were on schedule. Civil works at the CTs were seriously delayed by
the transfer of responsibility for construction of houses, offices and meeting rooms from the project to
the local communities from 1990 to 1992. A detailed inventory of progress remains to be undertaken.
The CTs concerned estimate that, overall, more than half of the works has been completed. Twenty CT
staff houses, for which construction responsibility was returned to the project, were completed in 1993.
Details on civil works are presented in Appendix C, Table 5. Despite the delays in civil works, the
increases in personnel and in resources, particularly transport, devoted to extension had a positive
impact on staff morale and on the project's ability to initiate its activities.
24.       Project implementation was judged satisfactory by the MTR in 1993. Nevertheless, the
contact group extension method, which was a key objective of the component, deteriorated sharply
7



during the last two years of the project (para 23). Details are presented in Appendix C, Tables 1 and 3
and also illustrated in Appendix C, Figures 1 and 2. Extension themes were seen by farmers as
repetitious, irrelevant to most of their problems and based on technologies not adapted to their
constraints. Training of field extension agents at the Regional Agricultural Training Centers (CREPA)
continued to be unsatisfactory (para 26). In the end, the contact group form of T&V, proved ill adapted
and unsustainable. External circumstances may have played some role in this lack of success (Chapter
C). More important determinants, however, appear to have been: (i) the high cost of the T&V approach
in human and physical terms, inappropriate to the Government resources, and (ii) a lack of commitment
to the method both by DERD and DVA, whose extension strategy and efforts are now focused almost
entirely on a Research-Development based form of technology transfer. Finally, much of the ability to
exploit the "test" aspect of this component through quantification and rigorous analysis of comparative
impacts was hindered by failure to establish operational monitoring and evaluation units and
procedures.
25.       Extension for women. The project originally planned that women extension agents would
only benefit from project training, and that other efforts would wait until an FAO study of the role of
women in agriculture was completed in 1989. Specific project initiatives were not begun in line with
the recommendations of this study, as had been planned. This is because project management
considered this sub-component not to be a priority. Nevertheless, the women's extension office in
DERD has benefited from project in-service training and from improvements in audio-visual materials.
The office has also tried to adapt and use, the contact group approach tested by the project. In most
instances, however, extension for women in Morocco proved to require contact with individuals or with
small groups. Such activities were hampered by a lack of suitable transportation for women extension
agents, a lack which project vehicles only partially helped alleviate. Large numbers of activities have,
however, been carried out with local women, funded by other projects as well. There were over 140
training programs from 1989 to 1993, benefiting more than 3,200 rural women. Demonstration plots
targeting women, of which there were none in 1989, rose to 300 in 1993. By 1994, DERD's office of
women's extension reported over 100,000 rural women beneficiaries, working with slightly more than
190 women extension agents (animafrices) at a ratio of 530 rural women per women extension agent
(Appendix C, Table 6). It is not possible for DERD to quantify the exact contribution of the project to
current women's extension activities with the data currently available. This contribution may be more
evident once DERD completes its retrospective study of project effects and impacts (Chapter H).
26.       Staff training. A fully-functioning series of training programs at different levels is key to
any T&V extension system. This project succeeded in ensuring adequate in-service technical training
for SMS in the regional multi-disciplinary teams, and to a lesser extent for the central team. In general,
the training-of-trainers, done at the Agricultural and Veterinary Institute Hassan II (IAV Hassan II), at
the National Agricultural Institute of Meknes (ENA) and at the national training center at Mehdia, was
judged satisfactory. A good beginning was made to incorporate adult education methodologies in the
training of trainers, particularly at ENA, but more attention could have been given to this aspect.
Training for field extension agents at the CREPA was far less successful, often poorly organized, with
inadequate accommodation and unattractive incentives for trainers. Training in audio-visual methods,
both at the national level, and for regional and field-level extension staff was successful and
immediately applicable in the field. The extent of the training program, which included about 1,400
sessions for some 40,000 trainees, is presented in Appendix C, Table 7. Despite serious problems at
the CREPA, and in programming relevant and up-to-the-minute themes, the training program was
generally satisfactory up to the project mid-tern review. A technical assistance study was meant to
8



propose solutions for the CREPA problems. Nevertheless, because the study was never completed, the
training programs stagnated and tended, particularly at the CREPAs, to fall back on repeating themes
from earlier programs.
27.       Creation of audio-visual units. Audio-visual units, reinforced by extensive project-
financed procurement of equipment and training at the national, regional and field level, were
supported and in some cases at the DPA and ORMVA level made operational for the first time.
Production of mass extension materials was appreciably increased and by 1995 included 31 films, 73
television spots, 74 radio announcements/emissions, almost 5,000 slides and photos, and 110 posters,
brochures and pamphlets (Appendix C, Table 8). Availability of equipment such as cameras, video
cameras and players, slide and overhead projectors at regional and field level, was also increased, as
was availability of audio-visual products such as films, videos, slides and photos. The 56 Project CTs,
for example, were in mid-1996 equipped with 100 cameras, 60 slide projectors, and over 100 video
cameras. Details are presented in Appendix C, Table 9. The ability of extension staff to fully exploit
the materials and equipment is estimated to have been significantly improved by project-financed
training.
28.       Creation of monitoring and evaluation units. Failure to create fully operational
monitoring and evaluation units to assess the impact of the extension component was one of the most
serious shortcomings of project implementation. It was only in January-February of 1995 that a
monitoring and evaluation unit was created at the national level, and this unit was never truly
operational for lack of means and of competent staff. A complex but adequate monitoring and
evaluation system was developed by a national commission, building on findings of two never-fully-
completed technical assistance studies. A series of training sessions was held to familiarize extension
personnel with the system. It was not, however, adopted and made operational. Proper monitoring and
evaluation might have indicated how and at what cost the T&V extension system could have been
modified and made sustainable, a question which now remains uncertain.
29.       Fellowships and technical assistance. Following the creation at ENA/Meknes of a two-
year course in agricultural extension, it was decided that fellowships for foreign studies were no longer
needed, and these were eliminated from the project. The decision appears to have been justified, in that
on average 15 students a year are reported to have attended the new course, and in that training
resources thus freed were reallocated to reinforce the training-of-trainers program for multi-disciplinary
team members and that of audio-visual training, both of which have been somehow successful. Three
technical assistance studies were conducted to evaluate: (i) the national audio-visual system; (ii) the
project extension component at mid-term review; and (iii) possible decentralization of extension
(financed by FAO/TCP). Three more studies remain uncompleted (Part II, Table 7). One study, to
develop a system of monitoring and evaluation, experienced delays in the payment of the consultants.
However, some of the results benefited the national commission that later took up the study. A second
study, on improving the extension training program, was not completed for lack of payment. A third
study, on establishing a statute for extension agents, an issue considered priority by the mid-term
review and by several supervision missions, was never completed.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
30.       The programming by objectives was indeed a new and complex approach that required more
time than anticipated to implement. However, INRA managed with the continuous support from INSAR to
9



successfilly adapt the approach to the moroccan context INRA management wisely opted first to tackle the
institutional aspects, define the research priorities, build the research teams, recruit the additional researchers
needed and finally proceed with the necessary procuring of equipment Difficulties in preparing bidding
documents and the slow establishment of a coordination unit were largely responsible for delaying the initial
disbursements relative to the research component This meant that research activities experienced at least a
one year delay. As a result GOM and the Bank decided to postpone the closing date to 30 June 1996.
Economic problems in Morocco closely tied to the drought of 1994/95 had severe repercussions on BNRA's
operating budget and consequently reduced the recruitment program of research staff. The failure to
implement an improved financing system did not make it possible to carry out an economic assessment of
the various research programs. Furdtermore, the procedures demanded by French bilateral aid were not
compatible with the implementation of the medium-term training program it financed.
31.       The extension component was affected to varying degrees by a number of extemal factors,
particularly after the mid-term review in 1993. These factors included severe government budget
constraints and a series of reorganizations within MARA, DVRA and DPA, which continued for a
considerable period of time. Also, instruction No. 6 issued in 1995 by MAMVA restructured the
DPAs-affecting the role of CTs. The instruction also, created much confusion as to the future role of
extension. In addition, there were important mid-course changes in both the upper-level Moroccan
extension management team and in the Bank supervision team. DVA had no clear vision as to how
extension could evolve over time and farmers contribution in the process was minimal for lack of
consultation. Subsequently, the Bank stressed in May 1994 the need for the project to define a strategy
for extension. Other factors that affected implementation of the extension component included high
turn-over of personnel, the appointmnent of junior and inexperienced staff as trainers and for monitoring
and evaluation which were key positions, and an unstable central technical unit which was created,
dismantled and recreated with no clear terms of reference. The training program provided at the
CREPAs ran into problems as accommodation and means were inadequate and fees paid to trainers
were unattractive. Finally, there was a two-year period of exceptional drought, which may have
significantly reduced farmers' interest in extension messages not having to do with their immediate
circumstances and for which the system was ill-prepared.
D. Project Sustainability
32.       Sustainability of the project as a whole is uncertain. In the research sector, the introduction
of the PPO, the improved contacts established between the field should allow a more rapid adaptation
of research results to the needs of a changing agriculture. However, the project has inevitably affected
the budgetary allocation to cover the additional operating costs of INRA which suffers from inadequate
financial resources. Some parts of the extension component are sustainable while others are not. Given
that the Government estimates the T&V extension system as too expensive, even modified to target
contact groups rather than individual contact farmers, other approaches need to be explored and
eventually supported. These require adapting extension to the various categories of farmers and
involving to main entities including the private sector, in extension. Certainly the training received
under the project, including audio-visual training, will continue to have an effect while current staff is
still in service, but it is doubtful if the means will be found to sustain the elaborate and expensive
training system of pyramid training on which T&V extension is based, particularly if the training relies
on the current network of CREPAs. The most sustainable part of the extension component is definitely
the stronger links that now exists between research and extension by an ever larger number of CRRAs.
10



The extent to which this collaboration improves research-extension linkages, the relevance of adaptive
research, and the ability of extension services to develop and disseminate extension messages in
response to farmer demand will depend on the extent to which a participatory approach among equal
partners will emerge.
E. Bank Performance
33.       In agreement with the GOM, project identification and preparation was carried out with
assistance of the FAO/CP. The Bank performance at identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. Regular supervision (13 missions) was effectively applied and a MTR took place in June
1993. At each stage of project supervision, plans were drawn up to facilitate timely actions on pending
items for both the research and the extension components. However, regarding the extension
component, firmer stance could have been taken to insist on making central and regional monitoring and
evaluation units operational earlier in the project life. After the mid-term review, supervision missions were
particularly active in giving appropriate guidance to the new management team on incorporating and
modifying project activities and approaches into the DERD's new strategy and orientation. The Bank
responded promptly to the GOM request to extend loan disbursement by one year, however, this was only
allowed for the research component of the project.
F. Borrower Performance
34.       As regards the research component, the borrower performance at project formulation and
preparation was particularly satisfactory. The commitment shown by 1NRA was such that there was almost
complete unison between the project's strategy and the Institution's development policy. The project's
coordination unit run by the Programming Division was punctual in bringing forth annual and biannual
progress reports and its final report was of high quality. Audits were regularly carried out and confirmed the
good order of disbursements and justified the use of funds withdrawn. Some project activities were delayed
or partially executed for extemal reasons which cannot be attributed to NRA. These included the failure of
the consultancy firm to carry out a study leading to proposals to improve the financing system. Also,
incompatibility of the training program with the availability of funds from the bilateral assistance. Research
activities within the livestock and forage crop programs were negatively affected by the delayed completion
of construction works as well as by budgetary constraints which limited staff recruitment. Regarding
disbursements, 1NRA managed to use nearly all the funds it had been allocated under the project. Finally, the
completion report produced by NRA was found to be of exceptional quality.
35.       Concerning the extension component, the borrower performance until the mid-term review
was generally satisfactory, although management contributed to delays in establishing an operational
central multi-disciplinary team and a viable system of monitoring and evaluation. From 1993 until the
end of the project, reorientation of extension was poorly coordinated and communicated to regional and
field staff by the DVA management team. Failure to create a fully operation monitoring and evaluation
capacity within the project severely jeopardized DVA and DERD's ability to draw meaningful
conclusions from the test represented by this project's extension component. Much effort was put in
the defining of a strategy for extension starting in late 1994. The effort however fizzled out and no
clear proposals are yet available for the decision makers. Finally, the extension component was not
extended due to overall sub-standard performance. Also, at the time of the request for extending the
component the proposal submitted to the Bank as to planning, programming and budgeting were late
11



and weak in their formulation. DVA did produce a completion report which is available on file, for
lack of summary.
G. Assessment of Outcome
36.       The project undeniably strengthened INRA and greatly improved its structure and working
capacity. The process of decentralization, the PPO, the establishment of SRD and the improved means for
the dissemination of results all give reason to believe that research work will better adapt to development
needs. The allocation of additional resources in infrastructure, equipment and scientific personnel is leading
to faster results that are transferred in turn to farmers. The concentration of resources on key economic
subsectors in agriculture as identified by the PPO would enhance the economic viability of the activities
undertaken. The project did strengthen the links between research and extension. The decentralization of
research activities to regional centers brought the researchers closer to extension and development teams.
The PPO approach also ensures that research needs, as expressed at regional level, are better taken into
account and prioritized. The SRD now participate at the assessment phase of research needs, verify results at
field level and disseminate research results through bulletins. They also conduct training sessions and on-the-
job training.
37.       Although the extension component had problems and shortcomings, it was generally
successful in meeting its objectives up to the MTR. Thereafter, overall implementation was below
expectation (Chapters B, and C) particularly in terms of improving the key contact-group extension
approach, maintaining a qualified Technical unit at the Center and corresponding units in the regions,
providing quality and more dynamic training that better matches the beneficiaries needs, encouraging
more forcefully the women's sub-component and establishing a simple and operational monitoring and
evaluation system. A few aspects of the component, had a positive impact. They include improved
audio-visual capacity, some improved technical competence of SMS, an increased demand for advice
from farmers, and an increase in the extension staff professionalism. The project contributed to
improving research-extension linkages, but this improvement was essentially research-driven.
Extension-driven linkage initiatives, such as timely communication of priority problems to adaptive
research units, and extension development of research results into technical packages for farmers and
for field extension staff, are less evident.
38.          Research and extension have mainly benefited those farmers in irrigated areas. In fact,
less than 20 percent of small farmers who produce rainfed cereals have regular contacts with
government extension agents. Furthermore, the chronic lack of resources undermined the ability of
extension to properly diagnose, prioritize, and convey to research the small farmers main problems in
rainfed areas, in a holistic fashion. Research has until the past few years devoted most of its limited
resources to farmers in the irrigated areas which by far received the lion's share of Government's
investments. It is only now, in part through the project, that much attention is finally being devoted to
farmers in the rainfed areas. Hence, and because of the long term nature of research it will take some
more years to strengthen the current limited pipeline of messages that will make a difference to the
mainly small and medium size farmers in non irrigated areas. Indeed, research is now looking into new
more drought and disease resistant varieties for cereals and for fodder, the defining of proper formulas
and the application of more cost-effective quantities of fertilizers on the basis of soil analysis at the
local level, and crop diversification.
12



39.       Any attempt to assess the development impact on agricultural production and rural
development would be premature. (Part AL Table 9). The first three years of the project were devoted to
institutional reorganization and strengthening and then to planning of research activities. The drought of
1994/95 prevented the implementation of almost all research activity . It also had an adverse effect on
extension which had little to offer. As a matter of fact, research, extension and training are long term
ventures requiring time to generate tangible effects. Several more years and proper monitoring and
evaluation are therefore needed to properly estimate the project's true impact
H. Future Operation
40.       Although a second phase had been envisaged in the SAR, the future of a follow-up project is
very much in doubt given the GOM's current budget problems. Research, extension and training do not
appear to be among the Govemment's main and immediate priorities. The more so that tangible results
remain difficult to assess. For the reasons stated above, most of the context for which the initial project was
designed has changed. The project's fonnulation at the time reflected a situation that prevailed till the end of
the 1980s. The national agricultural policy made major changes to increase the involvement of professional
associations and to promote local development projects. The project, however, no longer reflects these issues
and its continuation would probably lead to serious disappointment It is the GOM's intention to continue to
support those activities that can prove their technical justification and operate within an innovative research
strategy. Such a strategy, in line with MAMVA policy, would have to be defined widtin a global framework
of agricultural research involving the participation of professional organizations through the Interprofesional
Association for Agricultural Research (GIRA) set up in 1994.
41.       The DERD has elaborated a new extension strategy based on increased decentralization
(regionalization) of extension, targeting farmers and farmer groups most in need of public sector
extension assistance, and relying on a Research-Extension approach to technology transfer through
collaboration of individual SRDs with partner DPAs, ORMVAs, co-operatives, and other professional
organizations. DERD is also in the process of conducting a review of PRV effects and impacts,
including data from a survey conducted from April to June 1996. It is uncertain as yet whether this
study will help indicate which parts of the extension component of the project will be sustainable in the
context of MAMVA's current policies and DERD's new extension strategy.
I. Key Lessons Learnt
42.       The key lessons learnt from the project are:
a)    The programming and budgeting by objectives is a complex approach that required
1NRA three years to properly grasp and adopt. Since it was a critical factor for the
further implementation of the research component the delay also had an adverse effect
on the project as a whole. Thus, when a project design includes a new and complex
approach the local context and constraints should be analyzed and assessed with great
care.
b)    When a project includes significant institutional changes it is unrealistic to expect
speedy disbursements from project inception.
13



c)    Research (as well as extension) being a long term venture cannot operate according to
annual financial vaganes involving sizable fluctuations. Thus, both the Government and
the donor should be more cautious when projecting counterpart funds availability over
the project life span. Other sources of financing should be explored including contract
research and royalties. This requires proper legislation and procedures to allow research
to have access to such additional sources.
d)    The introduction of a new national extension system based on the T&V system proved
inadequate to the Moroccan context. Morocco's agriculture is heterogeneous, is spread
over six agro-ecological zones and, comprises several categories of farmers from
subsistence to internationally cornptetive. The public sector is no longer the sole source
of knowledge transfer and other entities are actively involved in extension including the
private sector and farmers associations, chambers of agriculture, cooperatives, farmer
groups. It should be recognized that the introduction of only one approach or of one
system is often risky.
e)    Modiflying the approach to extension especially at the national level requires a clear
vision and the definition of a strategy for extension at an early stage of the project
together with intense participation from farmers.
f     When elaborating a strategy, decision makers must decide, among other aspects on (i)
whether extension should remain the sole responsibility of the public sector; (ii) whether
extension should instead rely on a mix of public and of private interventions; (iii)
whether producers are to contribute to the cost of extension; and (iv) the amount of
funds the Govemment is able to commit to extension on a regular and long-term basis.
g)    Because of the low motivation of field staff, project management should have given
more serious consideration to the preparation of concrete proposals for a Statute of
extensionists to be submitted to the decision-makers for their consideration.
h)    A simple and operational monitoring and evaluation system is essential to properly
analyze results and problems and to take appropriate and timely action. Early
establishment of such a system should have been of the highest priority.
i)    When the institutional arrangements previously agreed upon are substantially
changed during project execution, as was the case with the lengthy reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture, the new situation should be formally reviewed and
the appropriate modifications made to the project design.
14



PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
(Page 1)
A. Achievement of objerives          Subsial         Partial     Negligible  Not Aplicable
(1/)        (W)            60            (O1
Macro policies                        T            E             ElJ
Sector policies                      ED            El           Ei]           [?]
Financial objectives                 Fi]           El           [_]           El
Institutional development                          El           El             El
Physical objectives                  El                         El             El
Poverty reduction                      Fl          E                           E l
Gender issues                        El           El                          E
Other social objectives              El            E                           E l
Envirommental objectives             El            El           [Fl            El
Public sector management                l          El            E l
Private sector development           El              l           E l
Other (specify)                      El            El           El
B. Project sustainabilitv             1ikelv       Unlikely     Uncerta
(O(O ((/)
C. Bank pcrformane                   satisfactory   Satisfacto   Deficient
(/)          ()            (/()
Identification                     E                          E1
Preparation assistance            El                          El
Appraisal                         El           [.             El
Supervision                       ED               ]          El



(Page 2)
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                      [F]    3[
Implementation                    2                       7 
Covenant compliance              D             E          E
Operation (if applicable)       E              L          E
Highlv                                      Highh
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactor,  unsatisfactor
Cl FD 
Note:   overall rating is satisfactory based o01 the good performanice of the research comiiponlentI durinig ihc
Project's life span and of the exlension component until mid-term review.



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit Title                        Purpose                      Years of       Status
I                                            I Approval I
Loan 1602-MOR Fes-Karia-    Improve rural income and social well-being of    FY78      Closed 06/30/90
Tissa Agriculture Project    33,900 farm families in the project area through
improvements to research, extension services,
credit and input supply, as well as through
investments in infrastructure such as roads,
schools, health facilities, and water supply.
Loan 1848-MOR Loukkos        Improve the agricultural systems prevailing in  FY80    Closed
Rural Development Project    Loukkos watershed into sustainable systems by             December 1988
alleviating the destructive effects of soil erosion
and increasing agricultural productivity and
incomes of poor farmers. Project activities were
to serve as a model for wider replication in the
Riff region.
Loan 1602-MOR Middle Atlas-  Increase production of meat, milk and cereals;  FY82      Closed
Central Area Agricultural     increase of the rural population income and              December 1990
Development Project          employment; and reverse environmental
deterioration of forest and rangelands.
Loan 2367-MOR Fifth          Increase agricultural production by increasing  FY84    Closed 03/17/87
Agricultural Credit Project  agricultural lending of CNCA.
Loan 2590-MOR Agricultural   Support the first phase of implementation of the  FY85    Closed
Sector Adjustment Loan       Government's program of adjustments in the                June 1987
agricultural sector. The principal objectives of the
sector adjustment program were to improve the
growth rate in agriculture within the overall
constraints in public resources.
Loan 2731 -MOR Sixth         Increase agricultural production by increasing  FY87      Closed
Agricultural Credit Project  agricultural lending of CNCA.                             February 1990
Loan 3088-MOR National       Supports CNCA's efforts to adapt its organization  FY90   Closed
Agricultural Credit Project  and procedures so that it can respond to an               December 1993
accelerated investment rate by the private sector
in the rural areas of Morocco.
Loan 2885-MOR Second         Support the second phase of implementation of   FY87    Closed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment  the Government's medium-term agricultural              April 1992
Loan                         sector adjustment program within the framework
of a general macro-economic restructuring
program. The essential objectives are to foster
efficient agricultural growth and to contribute to
the reduction of budgetary and current account
deficits to manageable levels.
Loan 3688-MOR Irrigated      Raise agricultural production and farmers'    Dec. 1993   Ongoing
Areas Agricultural Services  incomes in the irrigated areas. To improve the
Project                      operating efficiencies of the ORMVA's
agricultural services.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle           Date planned                       latest estimate
Identification'                                                    September 1986
Preparation2                     October 1986                      Nov.-Dec. 1986
Appraisal                        March 1986                        June 1987
Negotiations3                    16 November 1987                   06-17 February 1989
Board presentation               05 January 1988                    18 April 1989
Signing                                                            22 September 1989
Effectiveness                    September 1989/22 December 1989   21 March 1990
Mid-term review (if applicable)                                    November 1993
Project completion               30 June 1994                      30 June 1996
Loan closing4                    30 June 1995                      30 June 1996
I Carried out by the FAO/CP on the basis of project proposals prepared by INRA and DVRA.
2 The project was prepared by the GOM with assistance from FAO/CP and Bank staff.
3 Negotiations, which were delayed until remuneration levels for research scientists were increased, took place in
Rabat.
4 The closing date of 30 June 1996 was only applicable to the research component of the project. The date of 30
June 1995 remained valid for the extension component.



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 1990        FY 1991  1  FY 1992  |  FY 1993          FY 1994        FY 1995        FY 1996   |    FY 1997
Appraisal estimate                   2.0              3.5          8.0          14.0          20.0          25.5           28.0            -
Actual'                               -               1.9          4.4           6.7          10.7           14.5          18.3           22.0
Actual as % of estimate               -              54           55           48             54            57             65             79
Date of final disbursement:   13 Novembre 1996
Last cancellation:            16 April 1996
See details in Appendix D, Table 3.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Page 1)
Indicators                  |    Unit          Estimated        Actual        Actual as a %
Indicators                                        of Estimate
A. Research Component
Additional Staff
- Scientists (Research)           No.              71              47              66
- Technicians                     No.              73              20              27
- Computer Analysts               No.               6               5              83
- Supporting Staff                No.               15              4              27
Civil Works
- Constructions                   m2            12,062           11,781            98
- Houses                          No.               27              26'            96
- Irrigation Improvement           ha               63              83            132
- Plantations                      ha                8               5             83
- Other Investments               set               46             70             152
Agricultural Machineries and      unit            328             288              88
Irrigation Equipment
Materials for Laboratories        unit            323             328
Computer Equipment                unit             82             117
Vehicles                          unit            113             101
Office Furnitures and           unit/set           80              75.5
Equipment
Printing Materials and Library    unit             47              48              98
Equipment
Purchase of Animals               No.             620             416              67
Purchase of Publications          unit           1,000            888              89
Training
- Long-term: 2 years             p-year             17              6.5            38
- Long-term: 1 year              p-year             34              8.2            24
- Short-term: 4 months          p-month            34              26.2            77
- Technical Staff               p-week             180            269.7           150
Technical Assistance and
Consultants
- Research                      p-month            24             16.75            70
- Short-term Consultant         p-month            118             8                7
- Training                      p-month            26             23.23            89
Of which 8 new. The remainder 18 were only rehabilitated.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Page 2)
Indicators                             Unit         Estimated        Actual    | Actual as a%
of Estimate
B. Extension Component
Audio-Visual Equipment'
- DPA                                  Nb.               5               5            100
- Mobile Units                         Nb.              26              26            100
Vehicles
-4 WD                                  Nb.              40              48            120
- Light Vehicles                       Nb.             168             145             86
- Minibus                              Nb.              10              10            100
- Vans                                 Nb.              34              38            112
- Motorcycles                          Nb.             536             538            100
Technical Assistance
- Training Centres                   p/month             5               2             40
- Audio-Visual Reorgan.              p/month             8               8            100
- Training of Monitoring and Eval.   p/month             6               3             50
Fellowships
- Masters (2 yrs)                      Nb.               4               2             ..
- Fellowships                        p/month            97             -3             ...
Beneficiaries
- Contact Groups                   Nb. Farmers      1,000,000       1,400,0004        140
over 10 years
Recruitment
- Engineers                            Nb.              53              67            126
- Extension Agents                     Nb.              56              31             55
Constructions (CT)
- Offices (20 m2)                      Nb.              25              125            48
- Meeting Rooms (40 m2)                Nb.              27              135            48
- Houses (70 m2)                       Nb.              53              175            32
- Houses (80 m2)                       Nb.              20             206            100
- Houses (100 m2)                      Nb.              26              135            50
Construction (CMV-ORMVA)
- Office (20 m2)                       Nb.              19              19            100
- Meeting Rooms (40 m2)                Nb.               3               6            200
- Houses (70 m2)                       Nb.              18              18            100
- Houses (100 m2)                      Nb.               3               6            200
Training
- Nb. of Sessions                      Nb.             n.a.            1,376
- Nb. of Trainees                      Nb.             n.a.          40,744
Including still camera, slide projector, video camera, television, projectors, etc. (see Appendix C, Table 9).
2 Because of the creation of a new master course in extension at ENA in Meknes, the programme was carried out
locally without Project funds.
3 The programme was carried out with funds provided by the Dutch bilateral assistance.
4 Over the period 1990-1995 (see Appendix C, Tables I and 3).
5  Construction transferred to local communes. Assumed to be 50% completed according to CT's concerned.
Actually constructed by the project (DERD).



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Key indicators for future operations
are as follows:
(a)   Full implementation of the new accounting system  for the research component. The new
system is being implemented.
(b)   The separate accounting system for research activities and seed'crop production is also being
implemented.
(c)   Data analysis of a survey carried out by DERD.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                   atappraisal/redefined      Status                   Impact of study
1. Accounting System    To establish a new        Started in September 1993.  Not yet implemented.
accounting and financial  Completed only 60%.
system to ensure the
flexibility required for
agricultural research work.
2. Study for improving    To put in place a follow-up   Completed in 1993.  A National Committee
the extension training   and evaluation system for                       produced the follow-
programmes           extension programme at                              up and evaluation
local, regional and central                         system. Training
level.                                              programme for staff at
DPA and ORMVA,
also carried out.
3. Evaluation of the    Analysis of the production   Uncompleted for lack of
National Audio-      and propagation of         financial resources.
Visual System        extension audio-visual
support material.
4. "Statut des          An issue considered        Never completed.
vulgarisateurs"      priority by the mid-term
evaluation on the
establishment of "Statut des
vulgarisateurs".
5. Study on possibilities   Research/Extension     Carried out and financed    Some proposals are
for decentralisation of  linkage. Propose      under FAO/TCP.            being implemented
extension            improvement of                                      under the PSDA.
coordination between
Research and Extension.
6. Mid-Term Review      Evaluation of project      -                        Very well done and
components at mid-term.                             useful for project
implementation as well
as for the preparation
of the ICR.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)        Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000)
Item                 Local      Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign       Total'
Costs       Costs                    Costs'       Costs'
A. Extension
Civil works          1,928        1,127        3,055         833         487         1,320
Equip. & vehicles    3,718        3,646        7,364       4,410        4,330        8,740
Training T.A.          167        1,108        1,275         320        2,120        2,440
Operating costs     13,126        5,519       18,645       8,645        3,635       12,280
Subtotal          18,939      11,400       30,339       14,208      10,572       24,780
B. Research
Civil works          3,894        2,277        6,171       4,746        2,775        7,521
Equip. & vehicles    4,148        5,157        9,305       4,471        4,390        8,861
Training T.A.          869        5,769        6,638         432        2,850        3,282
Operating costs      5,939        2,497        8,436       6,436        2,710        9,146
Subtotal          14,850       15,700      30,550       16,085      12,725       28,810
Total             33,789      27,100       60,889       30,293      23,297       53,590
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)        Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000)
Source               Local      Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign       Total
Costs       Costs                    Costs        Costs
A. Extension
World Bank           9,600        9,400       19,000        n.a.        n.a.        12,118
Cofinancing            300        1,000        1,300        n.a.        n.a.          -
Government           4,200        1,000        5,200        n.a.        n.a.        12,662
Taxes and Duties     4,800         -          4,800         ...         ...          ...
Subtotal          18,900       11,400      30,300       14,208      10,572       24,780
B. Research
World Bank           4,600        4,400        9,000       n.a.         n.a.         9,917
Cofinancing          3,800       10,600       14,400        n.a.        n.a.         9,879
Government           2,400          700        3,100        n.a.        n.a.         9,014
Taxes and Duties     4,100         -           4,100        ...         ...          ...
Subtotal          14,900       15,700      30,600       16,085      12,725       28,8104
Total (A+B)       33,800      27,100       60,900       30,293      23,297       53,590
C. Project as a Whole
World Bank          14,200       13,800      28,000        n.a.         n.a.       22,035
Cofinancing          4,100       11,600       15,700        n.a.        n.a.         9,879
Government           6,600        1,700        8,300        n.a.        n.a.        21,676
Taxes and Duties     8,900         -           8,900        ......                   ...
Total             33,800      27,100       60,900       30,293      23,297       53,590
Mission estimate: details on local costs and FE component not available. Estimates are based on SAR
assumptions.
2 See Appendix D, Tables I and 2 for details.
3 See Appendix D, Table 2 for details.
4 See Appendix D, Table I for details.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not estimated at appraisal as considered not meaningful for a
similar project and therefore a full economic analysis was not presented. Overall, project results were satisfactory. The
project achieved its principal objective of restructuring and improving efficiency of INRA which is the major research
organization in the country, and reorganizing the DERD.
The project generated the expected institutional building benefits, Although the implementation of the
extension component was generally unsatisfactory after the mid-term review, some aspects of the component, however,
appear to have had a positive impact. These include improved audio-visual capacity of DERD, improved technical
competence of SMSs and increased demand for extension advice from farmers, and a general increase in the sense of
professionalism among extension staff. There has also been some project-induced improvement in research-extension
linkages.
As indicated in Appendix C, Tables I and 2, by 1992 almost 7,500 contact groups were established and
some 300,000 farmers benefited from the project extension activities. However, the number of farmers contacted by
extension agents declined to about 100,000 per year from 1995, overall, over the project period some 1,400,000 farmers
benefited under the extension component of the project (Part 11, Table 5). The DERD's office of women's extension
reported over 100,000 rural women beneficiaries, working with slightly more than 190 "animatrices". (Appendix C, Table
6)



Table 10: Status of Legal Coventants
IMOROCCO]
[Agricultural Research and Extension Projectl
Loan/                               Covenant                     Original        Revised
Agreemnent     Credit         Text Reference       Cass(es)        Status         Fulfil          Fulfil                    Descripion of Covenant                                     Comments
Number                                                             Date            Date
LOAN          L30360       2.02 (b)                I              C                                            Open a special account in Dirhams at Treaswy.       Special acconnt not to be ued.
3.01 (a) Letter No. 3  4              C                                            Provide necessary funds to DVKA.                    Funding delays.
3.03 (a)               4              C             12/31/S9       03/31/91        Prepare proposals for* plying university satry level to    Realignment approved by Conseil des Ministe" 04193.
DIRA research scientisb and subsequently apply
prompely.
3.03 (b) (i)            I             CP           03/31/90        01/01/95        Introduce new accounting arrangements for W(NA.     New system being implemented.
4.01                    1              C                                           Maintain adc4uate records wsd firnish audit report not  1993 audit report received atnd is being examined.
more thus 6 manths after year end
Provide specific audit certification on SOEs
5.01 Schedule 6         13            C                                            Cofinancing agreements effective. Provide for extensio  Consultant review 10/92.
component:
- audio-vil program for 90/93
- staff training progrun (annually)
CT/CMV programn (mnnually)
- M & E program.
Schedule               5              C                                            Apply budgetary, financial and accounting procedures  Pldot phase set up in early 995.
covered in 3.03 (b) of Lean Agreement.
Schedule               3              NC           03/31/90        09/01/95        Separate accounting system for research ctivities and  Awaiting implementation new aounting systm.
seedtrop produc1ti2.
Schedule               5              C            06/30/90                        Employ 5 research consultart for priotity program.
Coveuant Clam:
1 Accounts/audit
2. Fintncial performance/generate revenue from benefciaies
3. Flow arnd utilization of Ptuject fuand
4. Counterpar fusding
S. Management aspects of the Project or of its excuting agency
6. Evionnetal covenats
7. hvottmtty reenmt
8. Idi    peoe
9. Mnitoring. reie  and repeting
10.      -
11. Sectorl or ero_setr budgeay or other reource allocation
12. Seetora or ross-aetoral regulatyinstitutional acion
13. Ohr
Status   C: Complied wit;  CD, Complibsee after Delay; NC: Not Complied whl; SOON: Cwmpiuse Expected in R     _usonably Short Time; CP Complied with Pa1t. NYD  Not Yet Due.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title  i          Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliancet
Basically, there was compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.|



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                     Actual
Stage of                   Weeks          US$         Weeks          US$         Weeks   |   US$
project cycle                        l                          l
Through appraisal            n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          75.9        187.9
Appraisal-Board              n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Board-effectiveness          n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Supervision                  n.a.         n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         170.5        520.1
Completion                   n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          10.0         n.a.
Total                     n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         180.5



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized
Stage of         Month/         Number of      Days in         staff skills      Implementation    Development       Types of
project cycle        year          persons        field          represented            status        objectives      problems
Identification        Sept. 1986      n.a.          n.a.             n.a.
Preparation      Nov./Dec. 1986        6            24         A, E, R, Ec, F. In
Appraisal             June 1987        4            n.a.          A, A. R, T
Supervision-
I l          Oct./Nov. 1989        4            15           A, A. FA, E
2             May/June 1990        3            13             A, A, FA                                                F
3             Sept./Oct. 1990      5            14          A, E, FA, A, AC            I               I               F
42                May1991          6          13+11       A,E,WP,A,A,FA               2                l            F,M,P
5             Oct./Nov. 1991       3            11             A, A, FA               2                l           F, M, P, L
6             February 1992        2            10               A, E                 2                l              L, F
7                 June 1992        3            17             A, A, FA               2                l           L, F, P, M
8            December 1992         3            12             A, A, E                2                l           L, F, P, M
9 (MTR)           June 1993        33           15             A, A, FA               2                l           L, F, P, M
10              October 1993        5             5          A, A, A, FA, R            2                l           L, F, P, M
I I           May/June 1994         3            24             A, R, FA               2                1           M, F, L, P
12            Nov./Dec. 1994        2            20               A, R                HU                U           M, F, L, P
13                 June 1995        3            12            A, Ec, FA               S                S            T, M, F
ICR4             Sept./Nov. 1996       3            18             Ec, E, R
R = Research; E = Extension; In  Information Specialist; Ec = Economics; M    Management; A   Agriculturist;
D   Disbursements; P = Procurement; F = Financial Analyst; T = Training Specialist; AC = Accountant; WP = Women
Programme.
F = Funding; M = Management; P = Procurement; L = Legal Covenant; U = Unsatisfactory; HU = Highly Unsatisfactory; S =
Satisfactory.
I  Supervision for the research component: Oct. 10-20; for the extension component: Nov. 27-Dec. 1, 1989.
2   Supervision for the extension component from  May 1-13; for the research component from  May 27-June 7.
3   Mid-Term  Review: Mission composed by 9 persons: 3 from  WB; 2 from  KFW; 2 from  French  bilateral
assistance and 2 from GTZ.
4   Carried out by FAO/CP.






MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE






ROYAUME DU MAROC
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE (PRV)
PRET 3036-MOR
Mission du Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque mondiale
Preparation du Rapport d'acbevement du projet
Aide-memoire
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        A la demande du Gouvemement marocain et de la Banque mondiale, une mission du
Programme de coopdration FAOlBanque mondiale (FAO/BIRD) composee de MM. R. Suppa
(Economiste, Chef de mission), P. Martini (Specialiste en recherche agricole, consultant) et
J. Russell (Specialiste en vulgarisation agricole, consultant) a sejourn au Maroc du 23 septembre
au II octobre 1996, afin d'initier la preparation du Rapport d'achevement de projet mentionne ci-
dessus. La mission, dont le travail a ete efficacement organise par l'institut national de la
recherche agronomique (INRA) et par la Direction de 1'enseignement, de la recherche et du
d6veloppement (DERD) a travaille avec des responsables du Ministere des finances et des
investissements exterieurs (MFIE), du Ministere de l'agriculture et de la mise en valeur agricole
(MAMVA) et avec le personnel des principaux departements de l'INRA et de la DERD. Des
seances de travail ont dte organisees avec les Directions provinciales de l'agriculture (DPA) et les
Centres regionaux de la recherche agronomique (CRRA) de Marrakech, Beni-Mellal et Meknes,
aussi bien qu'avec les Offices regionaux de mise en valeur du Haouz (ORMVAH) et du Tadla
(ORMVAT). Des contacts ont etd etablis avec le personnel du Centre national d'etudes et de
recherche sur la vulgarisation (CNERV) et de la Chambre d'agriculture (CA) de la Wilaya de
Meknes et province d'Ifrane. Au cours de la mission, plusieurs centres de travaux (CT) et centres
de mise en valeur (CMV) ont et visites et des groupes de beneficiaires du PRV ont ete
interviewes. Le Representant de la FAO au Maroc, tenu regulierement au courant de
l'avancement des travaux, a efficacement conseille la mission. La mission tient A remercier les
Directions de l'INRA et de la DERD pour la fructueuse collaboration dont elle a beneficie durant
son sejour.
II. LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
2.        Le rapport d'evaluation de la BIRD avait proposd, dans le cadre du programme
decennal mis au point par le Gouvemement pour la recherche et la vulgarisation, le financement
d'une premiere tranche de cinq ans pour mettre en place une nouvelle organisation pour l'INRA et
la vulgarisation et equiper totalement les services d'appui afin de jeter des bases solides pour le
developpement des programmes de recherche et de vulgarisation. Dans le secteur de la recherche
le projet comprenait: (i) le soutien a la reorganisation de la gestion de l'INRA; (ii) 1'execution de
cinq programmes prioritaires de recherche; (iii) le renforcement des deux principaux CRRA A
Meknes et a Marrakech; (iv) la remise en etat de 13 stations de recherche; (v) la creation de
huit unites de recherche-developpement; (vi) le renforcement de la division information; (vii) la
formation et l'assistance technique; et (viii) la creation d'une unit6 de coordination. Dans le
secteur de la vulgarisation, le projet incluait les elements suivants: (i) la reorganisation des



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-MEmoim
services de vulgarisation au MAMVA (ex-MARA); (ii) la mise en place de nouveaux systemes de
vulgarisation; (iii) la vulgarisation a l'intention des femmes; (iv) la formation du personnel; (v) la
creation des unites audiovisuelles centrale et rdgionale; (vi) la cr6ation des unites de suivi-
evaluation; et (vii) I'assistance technique et bourses d'etudes. Le coOt du projet appuyant la
premiere tranche de cinq ans 6tait estime a 60,8 millions de dollars E.U. (487 millions de DH). Le
plan de financement pr6voyait un pret de la Banque mondiale de 28 millions de dollars E.U., un
cofinancement de 15,6 millions de dollars E.U. et une contribution du Gouvernement, taxes et
droits compris, de 17,2 millions de dollars E.U.
III. DEROULEMENT ET RESULTATS DE L'EXECUTION
A. Generalites
3.        L'impression generale qui se degage des visites effectuees dans la zone du projet est
que l'INRA a bien realise les objectifs du programme prevu. L'execution de la composante
vulgarisation etait consideree satisfaisante A la date de l'examen a mi-parcours (uin 1993). Le
systeme de vulgarisation rapprochee etait bien compris et maitris6. L'organisation etait en place A
tous les niveaux. Malheureusement une r6organisation du MARA depuis 1993 a contribu6 A des
problemes de deroulement de cette composante pendant les deux dernieres anndes du projet.
Cette reorganisation, qui comprenait la creation de la DERD (au lieu de la DVRA), l'installation
d'une nouvelle equipe directrice, la restructuration des DPA, et la mise sous deux tutelles (DPA et
RH) des CT, correspondait aux mutations dans l'6quipe de supervision de la Banque elle-meme,
et A une periode de grande secheresse qui a reduit tout interet des agriculteurs a la vulgarisation.
En fonction des problAmes, la mission de concertation de la BIRD de juin 1995, citant un
mauvais management, et une lenteur et manque de qualite dans la production des plans d'actions,
des programmes de formation, et deficiences au niveau de l'unite de suivi-evaluation, n'a donnd
son accord pour la prolongation de la clOture du pret au mois de juin 1995, c'est-a-dire
douze mois apres la date originale de cloture, que pour la seule composante recherche. Une
description de l'execution du projet par composante est donn&e ci-apres.
B. Recherche
Soutien A la reorganisation de la gestion de IINRA
4.        L'appui apporte par le projet a permis, conformement A l'evaluation, un renforcement
des capacites de gestion de l'INRA et sa r6organisation suivant les orientations precedemment
retenues par l'etude ISNAR.
-    Le nouvel organigramme a 6td mis en place et est fonctionnel.
-    Les outils de gestion ont etd mis au point dans les domaines de la
programmation, de l'elaboration du projet et de l'evaluation des performances.
-    La decentralisation de la gestion s'est traduite par la mise en place de huit centres
regionaux beneficiant d'une autonomie comptable et budgetaire.
-    La mise en place d'un systeme et de procedures financieres et comptables a fait
l'objet d'une dtude qui n'a cependant pu etre menee a son terme en raison de la
2



MOROCCO: Agicultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-MEmoire
defaillance du bureau d'etudes contracte. L'etat de realisation de I'etude est estime
a50%.
Le recrutement du personnel scientifique additionnel n'a ete realise qu'a hauteur
de 66 % des previsions initiales pour les ingenieurs et de 27 % pour les
techniciens en raison des restrictions budgetaires et du rythme de developpement
du programme.
-    Un statut du personnel scientifique et technique a et propose et publie, reglant le
developpement des carrieres et permettant au chercheur d'opter pour l'une ou
l'autre des filieres possibles (technique ou scientifique).
5.         Les programmes de formation n'ont pu etre que partiellement executes dans le cadre
de la cooperation bilaterale avec la France en raison de difficultes de programmation du
financement et d'equivalence de dipl6mes.
6.         Un plan de formation et de redeploiement a ete recemment prepare par la Division
de l'information et de la formation (DIF). II vise a assurer une meilleurs adequation entre les
besoins des programmes et les Ressources humaines, tendant A considerer la formation du
personnel comme un investissement essentiel pour l'institution.
Elaboration des programmes prioritaires
7.         Les cinq  programmes retenus pour le financement ont fait l'objet d'une
programmation par objectif (PPO) suivant la m6thode mise au point conjointement par l'INRA et
l'ISNAR rangeant les projets et les activites qui les composent par niveau de priorite.
8.         L'exercice de la PPO a conduit a une reflexion collegiale, systematique, impliquant
au niveau des premiers ateliers l'ensemble des intervenants et decideurs concernes, puis au niveau
des programmations A moyen et court termes les chercheurs, services, laboratoires et
departements responsables.
9.         Le projet a mis en place les infrastructures et les equipements necessaires A la mise
en oeuvre des programmes que ce soit au niveau de leur siege, ou parfois, a un degr6 moindre, a
celui des antennes et des domaines expdrimentaux ou sont mis en place les essais.
10.        Si la PPO a conduit a une programmation satisfaisante a l'interieur des programmes,
il apparait quelques insuffisances au niveau des relations entre programmes n'excluant pas
chevauchements doubles emplois ou insuffisance de coordination, pouvant parfois aboutir A des
situations conflictuelles en periode de rigueur budgetaire. Si la situation des programmes est bien
consolidee au niveau de leur siege, correspondant dans la plupart des cas a leur zone d'action
prioritaire, il n'en va pas toujours de meme pour certaines antennes qui semblent avoir quelques
difficultes A accepter leur isolement tant scientifique que budgetaire. Dans certain cas la
repartition des roles entre chef de centre regional et chef de programme ne semble pas toujours
clairement percue, en depit des mesures prises par la Direction, surtout une fois de plus en ce qui
conceme la repartition des moyens de travail. De meme en est-il du r6le respectif des
programmes et des departements scientifiques.
3



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extcnsion Projcct
Appendix A: Aide-Mdmoire
11.       Les programmes Olivier et Oleagineux sont, dans le domaine de la programmation
par objectif, les plus avances, dans la mesure ou ils s'adressent a des speculations precisement
limitdes et concentrees dans l'espace, le programme ol6agineux n'intervient que dans la region de
Meknes au niveau de son siege. Le programme Olivier voit ses activites regroupees sur le centre
de Marrakech, et n'a qu!une antenne au niveau de Meknes. La gestion de ces deux programmes
paraft fortement coordonnee et les relations avec les autres departements ou programmes
clairement definies.
12.       Les programmes viandes rouges et fourrages prdsentent une structure d'activite
beaucoup plus eclatee entre de multiples antennes souvent difficile a gerer. La liaison des deux
programmes entre eux meriterait egalement quelques clarifications pour promouvoir des
synergies. Ces deux programmes ont beneficie ou beneficient encore (pour le programme viande
rouge) de l'appui d'une assistance technique de la GTZ. Par contre, l'un et l'autre sont
actuellement depourvus de coordinateur national titulaire.
13.       Le programme "Ble tendre", initialement retenu comme programme prioritaire, a subi
une revision d'objectifs en 1991 elargissant son champ d'activite a l'ensemble des systemes de
cultures du bour favorable. Outre l'aspect ble tendre, qui reste la culture principale de la zone
agro-ecologique retenue, le programme inclut maintenant les recherches concernant le milieu
physique (sol et climat), le milieu biologique (plantes et parasites) et socio-economique. Ceci
tend ainsi a devenir une sorte de programme cadre regional dont les relations avec les autres
programmes (oldagineux, fourrages, viandes rouges), avec les departements scientifiques et
laboratoires (phytiatrie, pedologie, biometrie), ainsi qu'avec le centre regional de Meknes et le
service de recherche-developpement, meriteraient une clarification definitive.
Renforcement des Centres regionaux de recherche agronomique
14.       Sur les huit centres regionaux qui couvrent l'ensemble du territoire marocain, le
projet a retenu de financer le renforcement de deux d'entre eux.
15.       Le centre regional du Sais-Moyen Atlas A Meknes et le centre regional du Haouz-
presahara A Marrakech hebergent le siege de trois des programmes prioritaires finances par le
projet (Olivier A Marrakech, oleagineux et Ble tendre/Bour favorable a Meknes), ainsi qu'une
bonne partie des activites du programme viande rouge. Ils constituent, avec le centre
d'aridoculture de Settat, la base de la regionalisation de la recherche agronomique.
16.       Les deux centres ont beneficie d'un important programme de construction de bureaux
et laboratoires, le cout des constructions ayant ete sous estime, le programme physique a du etre
revu a la baisse, puis a subi une revision des coats (le surcolt etant supporte par l'Etat). Les
centres sont equipes conformrment aux previsions et aux besoins des activites qu'ils conduisent
ou hebergent. La reduction du programme de construction des bureaux provoque cependant une
gene sensible malgr6 un recrutement de personnel inferieur au prevision.
17.       Les deux centres renforces par le projet, ainsi que ceux de Tadla et de Settat ont
bendficie de la mise en place d'agences comptables deleguees conformement aux accords de pret.
Ceci a facilite les procedures de paiement.
4



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-M6moire
Rehabilitation des stations d'experimentations
18.       Vingt-deux domaines experimentaux ont ete selectionn6s pour rester au sein de
l'INRA. Ils representent les principales zones agro-6cologiques du pays et sont destin6s a
accueillir les experimentations et les essais realises par les programmes ainsi que la multiplication
des semences de prebase dont l'INRA a la responsabilit6. Pour ameliorer la fonctionnalitd des
domaines il a et entrepris d'en r6habiliter les infrastructures (constructions, reseaux d'irrigation,
creusement de puits), d'en moderniser ou completer les equipements agricoles, d'acqudrir le
materiel specifique necessaire a l'implantation des essais et exp6rimentations ainsi que les
vehicules n6cessaires, et enfin, il etait prevu de recruter ou d'apporter une fortnation
complementaire aux techniciens de ces domaines pour la conduite des essais et exprimentations
aux champs.
19.       Ces operations ont ete conduites par le projet sur onze domaines experimentaux. Les
performances y ont ete ameliorees et les experimentations facilit6es. II reste cependant que la
gestion des domaines se heurte encore a quelques difficultes (financement des surcocats des
experimentations par les programmes et les centres, individualisation insuffisante des recettes
liees a la multiplication de semence). Enfin certains domaines n'ont pas ete equipes pour
l'irrigation et ne beneficient pas de conditions d'exploitations suffisamment sOres pour la conduite
de certains essais. Les performances physiques et economiques des domaines restent encore en
de9a de leurpotentiel. L'optimisation de la production des domaines a fait l'objet, en 1996, d'une
etude conjointe INRA/GTZ.
Cr6ation d'Unites de Recherche-d6veloppement dans les CRRA
20.        Conformrment aux previsions le projet a finance le renforcement de huit unites de
Recherche-developpement (RD) dans chacun des huit CRRA. Ces petites equipes composees
generalement d'un ingenieur et de deux techniciens ont 6te dotees de moyens de deplacement, de
materiel informatique de bureau et en materiel audiovisuel. Les equipes mises en place
fonctionnent efficacement, en relation etroite avec les institutions de developpement (DPA,
Offices), les bureaux de vulgarisation dans 20 CT et les associations professionnelles.
21.        Elles interviennent A 3 niveaux:
(i)   Diagnostic: conduit avec les agriculteurs et les instances de developpement, iA
vise A identifier les contraintes, A en confronter l'inventaire aux resultats de
recherches existants, en cours d'obtention ou susceptibles d'etre programmds. Ce
diagnostic se fait en general aupres de petits groupes localis6s et representatifs.
(ii)  Validation: Les essais de verification, regroupds en plates-formes, peuvent servir
de base aux demonstrations conduites au niveau suivant.
(iii) Diffusion: Les resultats obtenus par les programmes correspondant aux besoins
identifies lors de la phase diagnostic, sont diffuses a l'aide de demonstrations,
d'ateliers de diffusion ou encore sous la forme de publication accessible a un
large public, (le bulletin du SRD de Meknes AGRICONTACT en est un
excellent exemple).
5



MOROCCO: Agncultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-Mdmoirc
22.        L'activite des SRD est maintenant bien lancee, il semble important d'en mieux definir
les contours, les liaisons exterieures et le champ d'intervention, pour leur conserver leur souplesse
tout en evitant la dispersion. L'experience realisee a Meknes dans le cadre de la collaboration
INRA/ISNARIGTZ peut, a ce propos, foumir un cadre de reflexion interessant.
23.        Les moyens de travail des SRD devraient etre renforces, surtout dans le domaine des
moyens de deplacement et des facilites d'edition (appui de la DIF) et de la documentation visant A
inventorier les messages disponibles pour la vulgarisation. Une structure l6gere de coordination
nationale pourrait faciliter leurs relations avec les autres intervenants de l'INRA (programmes).
Renforcement de la DIF
24.        Le renforcement de la division information visait a ameliorer la qualite, la
disponibilite et l'accessibilit6 de la documentation, par le classement du fonds existant et son
renforcement par de nouveaux achats et abonnements et la mise en place de moyens de traitement
informatiques tant pour l'analyse de la documentation que pour etablir des liaisons avec les
centres de recherches et les bases de donnees internationales et nationales. 11 visait par ailleurs A
crier A la DIF une capacite de publication et d'edition A la mesure des besoins en diffusion des
travaux de recherche realises.
25.        Pour ce faire, le projet a finance la construction d'un centre de documentation et
d'impression, I'achat de materiel de bureau, le materiel audiovisuel et didactique, de materiel
d'impression OFFSET, de reproduction..., de materiel informatique (station PAO, reseau interne,
traitement automatique de l'information). 11 a en outre finance I'equipement des bibliotheques des
centres regionaux, une salle de reunion et I'achat de 4 vehicules.
26.        La DIF est maintenant en mesure d'effectuer des recherches documentaires par mot-
clef, de se connecter aux centres de documentations foumisseurs de donnees. Elle foumit aux
centres regionaux des CD-ROM support des bases de donnees des grands systemes intemationaux
(AGRIS). Elle est par ailleurs en mesure d'assurer la publication de la revue El Awamia
(impression non comprise) de differentes fiches techniques et publications. L'equipe deplore
cependant l'insuffisante formation du personnel, ainsi que l'absence d'une phototheque destinee a
illustrer les publications.
C. Vulgarisation
Reorganisation des services de vulgarisation au MAMVA (ex-MARA)
27.        Cette reorganisation a et  realisee sous forme d'une Division de vulgarisation
agricole (DVA) A la DERD (ex-DVRA), consacree uniquement a la fonction de la vulgarisation.
Au niveau regional, le Service de vulgarisation prevu dans les DPA n'a pas vu le jour, mais les
bureaux de vulgarisation ont pu fonctionner au sein d'un Service de mise en valeur (SMV) dans
les DPA et d'un Service de vulgarisation et organisations professionnelles (SVOP) dans les
ORMVA. Des bureaux de vulgarisation, propres a une vulgarisation separee de toute autre
fonction (prestations de service, etc.), ont 6galement ete crees au niveau des CT et CMV.
28.        Une equipe centrale d'animation a ete forrne et des equipes pluridisciplinaires (EPD)
ont ete constituees dans les DPA et ORMVA. L'organisation etablie aux niveaux central et
6



MOROCCO: Agricultufd Research wmd Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-M6foihe
rigional, peu diff6rente de celle prevue par le projet, a 6te jug6e, dans l'evaluation a mi-parcours
et par les etudes faites par le CNERV/ENA en 1993, bien comprise et adequate a la mise en
marche des nouveaux systemes. Par contre, le comite technique de la vulgarisation prevu n'a pas
dtd constitue, mais a ete remplace par un comite national de transfert de technologie qui assure les
liens entre la recherche et le d6veloppement. Le comit6 de programmation du PRV sert aussi a
ameliorer ces liens.
29.        La reorganisation des DPA en 1993 qui a elimine les bureaux de vulgarisation des
DPA et CT semble avoir semd pas mal de confusion au sein de ces structures concemant l'avenir
de la vulgarisation, une situation que la direction se croit en train de clarifier.
Mise en place des nouveaux systemes de vulgarisation
30.       La mise en place a subi des retards mais a beneficie d'un engagement personnel
important de la part de l'equipe centrale (une fois creee) autant que des directeurs provinciaux et
des directeurs d'Offices, ce qui a permis aux CT et CMV un demarrage op6rationnel pendant la
campagne 1990.
31.        Specifiquement, le projet a introduit dans les 56 CT zone-test, pilotes et projets
integr6s, et dans les 19 CMV test, une vulgarisation plus rapprochee et constante, basee sur le
systeme "Formation et Visite," mais modifiee pour etre plus souple et adaptee, aussi qu'un appui
aux activitds d'animation feminine. Dans trois CT des efforts de recherche-developpement ont
compltet l'intervention. Le nombre de CT impliques dans les efforts RD a ensuite ete augment6
jusqu'a 19 autour des CRRA. Ces systemes (approches) ont 6t6 mis en place a titre de test A cot6
du systeme de vulgarisation de masse dejA en place, en liaison avec un comite de programmation
de recherche-developpement.
32.       Le systnem  de "formation en cascade" de la nouvelle approche a ete mis en oeuvre
par la formation des EPD, les stages de recyclage des vulgarisateurs aux Centres r6gionaux de
perfectionnement agricoles (CREPA), et la creation des groupes de contact d'agriculteurs dans les
CT et CMV. Les groupes de contact etaient dejA au nombre de 6 900 en 1990.
33.       La construction des bureaux et logements a ete nettement retardee par un transfert de
responsabilitd pour ces travaux aux communes. Par contre, l'equipement (vehicules, micro-
ordinateurs, mat6riels de demonstration et de bureau, etc.) semble avoir ete acquis conformement
aux previsions, et a contribue directement A une amelioration du moral des vulgarisateurs de base
et a un demarrage satisfaisant des interventions sur le terrain.
34.       Les progr*s faits par ces nouveaux systemes, notes dans l'evaluation a mi-parcours, et
communiques a la mission lors des visites sur le terrain, sont les suivants:
-    La nouvelle approche permet un contact plus individualise et plus etroit et
permanent.
-    Une vraie demande de conseil agricole a ete creee chez les agriculteurs.
-    Une prise de conscience du metier de vulgarisateur a ete faite au niveau de base.
7



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-M?moire
-    Une amelioration du systeme de programmation permet que le vulgarisateur ait
des actions bien definies et specifiques A accomplir.
-    Les agriculteurs apprecient les systemes de vulgarisation rapprochee, meme s'ils
souhaitent que les conseils soient plus frequents, plus a leur portee, et plus
appropries A leurs problemes reels et leurs contraintes.
35.        La mission a trouve a tout niveau une stagnation dans le progres de ces nouveaux
systemes depuis l'evaluation A mi-parcours. II a ete note par plusieurs interlocuteurs de la presente
mission que le nombre de groupes de contact diminue progressivement, ainsi que le nombre de
visites de contact, l'interet et taux d'assistance des agriculteurs aux visites des vulgarisateurs, et la
motivation de ces derniers. En plus, les themes de vulgarisation semblent ne pas avoir evolues au
fur et A mesure qu'ils ont ete maitrises par les populations ciblees. Les raisons qui ont contribue A
cette situation sont traitees dans la section "Generalites" (III.A. ci-dessus).
Vulgarisation a l'intention des femmes rurales
36.        Le projet n'a prevu que la formation A l'appui de l'animation feminine. Cette
formation a ete jugee utile par les vulgarisatrices impliquees. De plus, les responsables du bureau
chargees de la promotion de la femme rurale au DERD et les vulgarisatrices elles-memes (dont
environ 200 sont sur place), se sentent beneficiaires aussi des acquis audiovisuels du projet et de
la methodologie de la vulgarisation rapprochee, bien qu'elles n'aient pas pu adopter tous les
aspects de cette methode. Une approche individualisee est consideree comme plus adaptee a la
rencontre des femmes rurales.
37.        Parmi les activites financees par le projet, dont les femmes ont profite, celles des
stages et voyages d'etudes ont e  particulierement valables.
38.        La demande de moyens de transport est universelle.
Formation du personnel
39.        La formation jouait un r6le primordial dans la mise en oeuvre des systemes de
vulgarisation de ce projet, et un nombre d'actions de formation depassant les previsions ont ete
realisees: des visites par l'equipe d'animation aux DPA et ORMVA, des stages pour les EPD A
l'IAV Hassan II, I'ENA/Meknes, et A Medhia, des stages de recyclage des vulgarisateurs aux
CREPA, et visites aux groupes de contact d'agriculteurs. Les acquis techniques et
methodologiques amenes par ce processus continu et permanent figurent parmi les benefices les
plus importants pour le personnel de vulgarisation de tous niveaux.
40.        L'equipe d'animation, dont le r6le a ete central, a souffert d'une creation retardee,
d'une surcharge par des taches administratives, et du manque d'equipements de base et de moyens
de transport. L'equipe a eclate puis a ete reconstituee en 1995, mais n'a pas pu fonctionner depuis
lors faute de moyens.
41.        Les stages A l'intention des EPD, dits apprecies dans 1'evaluation a ni-parcours, ont
continue d'etre generalement de bonne qualite. La situation deplorable au niveau de l'organisation
8



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-Mfmoirm
et fonctionnement des CREPA, deja jugee critique en juin 1993, et qui devait faire objet d'une
etude par un expert en formation agricole, a continue de se deteriorer.
42.        Le bureau de formation de la DERD produit des programmes annuels qui semblent
etre des listes de themes A aborder au cours des formations et qui ne mettent en evidence ni une
analyse de l'efficacite ou de la valeur des formations precedentes ni une evolution raisonnee des
themes en fonction des besoins et attentes des beneficiaires.
43.        La mission a constate que le processus d'adaptation et de perfectionnement des
nouveaux systemes aurait ete facilite si les responsables avaient pu bendficier d'un appui de
formation en management des programmes et projets de vulgarisation.
Unites audiovisuelles
44.        Grace a une acquisition des equipements qui a depasse les previsions, et a une
formation importante de personnel A tous niveaux, ce projet a contribue A une amelioration
appreciable de la production, de la qualite, et de l'utilisation sur le terrain des materiels audio-
scripto-visuels, y compris films, spots de television et radio, diapos et photos, affiches, brochures,
etc., A I'appui de la vulgarisation, autant rapprochee et feminine que generale. Ces ameliorations
ont ete citees dans tous les CT, CMV, DPA et Offices visites par la presente mission. Une lacune
toujours sentie est le besoin des specialistes en audiovisuel aux niveaux des DPA et ORMVA.
45.        Neanmoins, une repetitivite de messages a ete deploree par les agriculteurs
rencontres et meme par les vulgarisateurs. En plus, I'adaptation frequente des produits aux
attentes des agriculteurs a ete difficile a assurer avec le peu de moyens actuellement A la
disposition de ces services. Pour repondre a ce probleme, une reorganisation est en cours par la
DERD qui preconise des centres intermediaires de production. Une convention a ete faite avec le
CNERV pour une meilleure rdpartition de responsabilites de production selon les forces et
faiblesses de chaque partenaire. Les unites audiovisuelles ont beneficie, aux niveaux des
techniques d'organisation et de fonctionnement, d'une etude r6alis6e dans le cadre du projet en
1990.
Creation d'unit6s de suivi-evaluation de la DERD et dans les DPA
46.        Bien que sa creation a ete jugee indispensable A la bonne marche du volet
vulgarisation, et dans l'evaluation A mi-parcours, ainsi que dans plusieurs rapports de mission de
concertation, ce n'etait qu'en fevrier 1995 qu'une cellule centrale de suivi-evaluation a ete creee.
47.        Un systeme de suivi-evaluation, conforme A ce que la Banque mondiale recommande
pour les projets de vulgarisation, a e  elabore par une commission nationale appuyee par deux
etudes de consultation en 1990 et 1992, et une serie de formations A ce systeme ont ete tenues,
mais les etudes restent inachevees et leurs recommandations n'ont pas ete adoptees.
48.        Le manque d'une cellule centrale de suivi-evaluation, avec un staff de haute
formation, et munie d'un systeme approprie, puissant et souple, a serieusement empeche le
service de vulgarisation de r6aliser ces buts. 11 n'a pu ni analyser les effets et impacts reels de ses
actions ni programmer ses activites en fonction d'une politique agricole en evolution, des besoins
9



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research nd Exlension Project
Appendix A: Aide-M6moire
des groupes d'agriculteurs tres heterogenes du point de vue socio-economique, et des contraintes
environnementales extremement variables.
49.        Comme l'a note la mission de concertation de novembre-decembre 1994, le
programme de 1994 et les previsions pour 1995 etaient essentiellement des repetitions de ceux
des annees precedentes, une situation qui aurait pu etre evitee si un systAme efficace de suivi-
evaluation avait ete en place et operationnel.
50.       La mission a note qu'il existe au niveau regional des unites de collecte de donnees, et
qu'une formation importante du personnel a dte faite pendant la vie de ce projet. Une enorme
quantite de donnees existe sur les nombres d'actions effectudes, nombres d'agriculteurs touches,
etc., mais 1'exploitation en profondeur de ces donnees reste a faire, autant au niveau central que
dans les DPA.
51.        Par contre, la mission a aussi note le travail important du comite de pilotage de la
strategie de la vulgarisation au Maroc, qui a produit des propositions d'orientation pour une
nouvelle strategie. 11 est A souhaiter que ces propositions, suite a des reflexions du comite de
pilotage de la liaison RD et celui du programme de transfert de technologie, contribueront a une
vulgarisation plus concrete au service du developpement agricole. Cependant, sans un vrai
systeme de suivi-evaluation toute strategie et approche sera inutile.
Assistance technique et bourses d'etudes
52.        Malgre les previsions, aucun cadre des services de vulgarisation n'a profite d'une
bourse d'6tudes au sein de ce projet. Ces bourses ont ete remplacees dans le programme de
formation par des stages de "formation des formateurs" (des EPD) A l'IAV, A l'ENA/Meknes et a
Medhia. Ce changement se justifie suite a la creation d'un nouveau cycle de deux ans en
vulgarisation A l'ENA dont une moyenne de quinze personnes par an ont beneficie.
53.        L'assistance technique a realis6 les etudes sur la decentralisation de la vulgarisation,
sur le systeme audio-scripto-visuel, et sur le PRV/composante vulgarisation A mi-parcours. Trois
autres etudes, dont deux tres importantes sur le systeme suivi-evaluation et sur la formation
(cit6es ci-dessus), plus une autre sur le statut des vulgarisateurs -juge probleme prioritaire par
l'evaluation a mi-parcours et par plusieurs missions de supervision- sont inachevees.
D. COUTS EFFECTIFS ET FINANCEMENTS
54.        Le coOt de la premiere phase de cinq ans du projet est 6value a 54,9 millions de
dollars E.U. ou 90 % de l'estimation fait A l'6valuation du projet. Le decaissement du pret de la
Banque mondiale y compris des payements jusqu'au 31 octobre 1996 s'elve a 22 millions de
dollars E.U., plus ou moins 80 % du montant prevu. En consideration qu'un montant de
5,8 millions de dollars E.U. a ete annule, suite A la decision conjointe Gouvemement/Banque
mondiale de supprimer le financement du programme construction (1,8 million de dollars E.U.)
qui a ete transfere aux collectivites locales (periode 1990-1992), un solde de 0,2 million de
dollars E.U. restera non decaisse. Le pret relatif au volet recherche a ete presque totalement
utilise. Par contre, pour le volet vulgarisation le taux de deboursement s'elve A 67 %. Cependant,
si on tient compte qu'une partie tres importante du pret a 6te annulee, le taux de deboursement
pour la composante vulgarisation s'eleve A 98 %. Bien que les contributions GTZ et cooperation
10



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-Mimoire
bilaterale francaise ont ete completement deboursees, le financement KFW s'eteve seulement A
6,2 millions de dollars ou 73 % du montant prevu A l'evaluation.
E. DURABILITE
55.        La durabilite du projet reste difficile. Dans le secteur de la recherche, l'introduction
de la programmation par objectif, le contact ameliore avec le terrain par les SRD et les
programmes, doit permettre une adaptation plus rapide aux besoins d'une agriculture en mutation
acceleree. Ceci apparalt comme un element de perennite des actions entreprises. Cependant, la
realisation des investissements considerables qui a permis de doter les programmes de recherche
en equipement, laboratoires et personnels additionnels est a la base d'une inevitable augmentation
des besoins en budget de fonctionnement de l'INRA qui souffre de l'insuffisance de ces ressources
financieres. Cette situation peut porter, A court terme, prejudice au bon deroulement des activites
de recherche. Les ressources financieres de l'INRA restent toujours de l'ordre de 0,30 % du PIB
agricole.
56.        La vulgarisation rapprochde demande beaucoup de moyens, humains autant que
physiques, surtout en ce qui concerne le transport et un processus tres ordonne de formation dont
le systeme entier depend.
57.        Quand cette methode rapprochee n'est qu'une composante d'une collecte d'approches,
et si ceux qui sont charges de realiser des programmes de vulgarisation ne sont pas tout A fait
convaincus de l'utilite de la composante rapprochee, les moyens necessaires seront certainement
disperses. Les efforts et moyens consacres A cette vulgarisation rapprochee doivent etre
maintenus A une certain masse critique non pas seulement pour etre efficace, mais meme pour
avoir un impact minimum. Dans le cas ou ces moyens ne sont pas sOrs d'etre disponibles A long
terme, il est difficile de justifier cette approche A la vulgarisation.
58.        Toutefois un apport important a la recherche et A la vulgarisation en general est prevu
dans le cadre du Projet de soutien au ddveloppement agricole (PSDA). Dans la composante
recherche adaptative le PSDA permettra A l'ORMVA de tester des techniques ameliorees de
culture et d'elevage et de realiser des demonstrations au profit des agriculteurs. Pour la
vulgarisation il est prevu une amelioration du contenu des messages, une programmation
judicieuse et une utilisation des moyens de diffusion adequats. Dans le volet animation feminine
le PSDA appuiera la realisation des etudes de diagnostic, le financement de petits projets ayant un
effet de demonstration, le renforcement des ORMVA en materiel et vdhicules et en personnel
charge de I'animation feminine. Parallelement, la nouvelle strategie d'intervention du MAMVA
prdvoit des actions d'appui au ddveloppement dans les projets de mise en valeur bour (Loi 33/94).
F. OPERATIONS FUTURES
59.        L'execution de la deuxieme phase du PRV, comme prevu A l'evaluation du projet,
reste a determiner et devra etre objet d'une evaluation realiste des besoins rdels de la recherche et
de la vulgarisation en general.
60.        La conception initiale du PRV reflete la situation de la fin des annees 80 et de la mise
en place du PASA; depuis, les conditions de IPagriculture marocaine ont subi une mutation
acceleree (GATT), orientee vers la recherche de performance economique et conduisant au
II



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-Mcmoire
developpement rapide de nouvelles cultures speculatives. La politique agricole nationale a
egalement subi de profonds changements vers la responsabilisation de la profession et le
developpement local. Le projet, tel qu'il avait ete concu, ne reflete plus ces conditions. La
reconduction pure et simple d'une deuxieme phase du projet conduirait probablement a de severes
deconvenues. Par contre il parait necessaire de:
-    continuer a apporter un soutien aux activites entreprises moyennant la
verification de leur bien-fonde et une rationalisation de leur affectation
budgetaire;
-    definir une strategie innovatrice et susceptible de deboucher a terme sur une
recherche performante et susceptible de generer elle-meme une partie de ses
besoins financiers. Cette strategie, partie integrante de la politique du MAMVA,
devrait etre definie dans le cadre global de l'ensemble de la recherche
agronomique et impliquer les organisations professionnelles a travers le
Groupement interprofessionnel de la recherche agronomique (GIRA) cree en
1994.
61.       Toute action de vulgarisation future qui envisage un partenariat important se basera
necessairement sur une analyse des acquis de ce projet PRV - projet conqu a titre de test. La
DERD est en train de faire une etude retrospective du Plan directeur de vulgarisation et de
depouiller des donnees d'une enquete mende en avril-juin sur les effets et impacts du projet.
Cette analyse devrait comprendre une analyse des coIts et bdndfices reels des differentes
approches de vulgarisation dans les differentes categories de CT et CMV et aussi une analyse des
attentes et experiences aux populations cibides par ces approches - ou meme par d'autres. Cette
analyse ex-pos profitera des suggestions des missions de concertation de 1994-95 et d'une
refdrence continue aux rdsultats du processus de suivi-evaluation du PSDA.
62.       La DERD  considere un des acquis les plus importants de ce projet d'etre la
concrdtisation du PDV. Elle vise actuellement par ses reflexions de rdorientation et par le
programme national de transfert de technologie une ddcentralisation de la vulgarisation qui
corresponde a celle de la recherche.
63.       Dans le cadre du PSDA un accord a dtd rdcemment approuvd pour une assistance de
la FAO avec l'objectif de permettre aux ORMVA de planifier leurs actions de vulgarisation sur la
base d'un diagnostic participatif visant le reajustement des themes prioritaires et une meilleure
rdpartition des taches entre les differents intervenants dans l'encadrement des agriculteurs. A cet
effet, des dtudes seront mendes au niveau des ORMVA dont les resultats constitueraient la base
d'un meilleur ciblage des programmes de vulgarisation et de recherche.
G. LE ONS A TIRER
-    L'association etroite de cadres et de chercheurs de l'INRA a la conception du
projet, puis son integration totale au sein des structures de l'institution peut etre
consideree comme un des succes du projet.
-    La formation, base de l'adequation des ressources humaines aux besoins,
fondamentale dans le domaine de la recherche, aurait du bendficier d'une
12



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix A: Aide-Mdmoire
programmation A la fois plus soigneuse et plus ambitieuse. Elle devait desormais
faire partie du plan d'investissement a long terme de l'institution.
Le suivi et l'evaluation des programmes et des activites aurait dcu completer
efficacement la programmation par objectif et permettre une adaptation plus
rapide des programmes A la demande de recherche et aux limitations de la
ressource financiere.
L'orientation des activites de recherche vers I'application et le developpement ne
doit en aucun cas sacrifier la rigueur scientifique des methodes employees. Dans
ce domaine le rOle des departements scientifiques doit etre pleinement assure de
meme que dans celui de l'evaluation scientifique des chercheurs.
Le budget de fonctionnement affecte A la recherche publique conduite par l'INRA
tend A la stagnation ou meme A la r6duction. L'INRA pourrait s'assurer des
ressources additionnelles en valorisant mieux ses resultats de recherches
(convention, royalties), ceci suppose la mise en oeuvre d'une strategie resolument
innovatrice. Les recettes issues de la mise en valeur des domaines experimentaux
pouvaient etre considerablement augmentees par une gestion plus rigoureuse et
orientde vers la productivitd des espaces non consacrds a l'experimentation. Ces
recettes compidmentaires ne pourront cependant se substituer au financement
public dont l'INRA restera tributaire.
La vulgarisation rapprochee semble susceptible d'une adaptation aux conditions
marocaines, meme si toujours a I'appui d'autres approches, mais iH faut des
moyens et un engagement A long terrne pour dvaluer dans quelle mesure et
comment elle peut s'adapter.
Une reorientation eventuelle des systemes de vulgarisation, qui mettrait
necessairement en cause les methodes et approches, risque aussi, si la bonne
communication n'est pas assuree, d'avoir un effet nuisible sur la motivation des
agents de base appel6s a effectuer ces activites sur le terrain.
Une cellule suivi-evaluation op6ratioMelle, de haute competence, et dotee des
moyens necessaires est absolument essentielle pour dvaluer toute introduction et
mutation de systeme de vulgarisation et pour fournir des points de reperes rdels
sur lesquels des strategies de vulgarisation au service de l'innovation
technologique peuvent etre eIaborees.
Prevoir, pour un tel projet, des mecanismes de coordination entre la recherche et
la vulgarisation.
H. SUITE A DONNER
64.        De retour A Rome, la mission elaborera une version provisoire du rapport
d'achevement du projet qui pourrait etre envoye a la Banque mondiale au cours de la seconde
moitie du mois de novembre. II est suggere que les deux rapports d'achevement, prepares par
l'INRA et la DERD respectivement pour le volet recherche et le volet vulgarisation, seront
envoyes A la Banque mondiale avant le 15 novembre 1996.
13






MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX B
RESEARCH COMPONENT






MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix B: Research Componcnt
Table 1. Number of Research Staff (1989-1995)
1989      1990      1991       1992       1993      1994       1995'
Scientific staffe                            1         1          1         1        39         58
"Ingenieur en chef"               2         3         18         28        30         21        27
"lngenieur d'Etat"               85       105        145        176       186        160       161
"Ingenieur"                      83        76         63         30        27         34        23
Total3                       171        185       227        235       244        254       2694
Administration5                  15         17        17         18        20        22         24
Scientific staffnot supported    -         -          -                    -          13         13
by INRA budget
Total Research Staff            156       168        210       217        224       219        232
Source: INRA (DAA).
As of end of May 1995.
Including: "Directeur de recherche"; "Maitre de recherche" and "Charg6 de recherche"(A, B et C).
; Excluding: the Director and the Secretary General.
4 Including 17 "Cooperants dtrangers".
sIncluding: "Chef de Division"; Chef de CRRA and Chef of Source Departments.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix B: Researmb Component
Table 2. Distribution of Research Staff
1987                             1995
No.      |      %        |      No.               %
A. Headquarters
- General Administration               8             46               16                6.3
- CRRA Division                       -              -                13                5.2
- Scientific Department              67              38.7             54              21.4
B. CRRAs                                87              50.3            169              67.1
C. To be allocated                       11              6.4             -                 -
Total                                173            100.0            252'             100.0
Source: INRA.
Excluding 17 "Cooperants etrangers".



MOROCCO: Agricultural Reuch and Extension Project
Appendix B: Research Component
Table 3. Financial Resources per Research Staff
(in current DH)
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Investment (DH'000)              34,067    32,363      45,375     38,450    26,911      24,600
EGS                              29,233     31,037     33,000     35,000     36,390     35,000
Operating Costs (DH'000)         76,571     85,128     92,467     98,129     96,048     96,088
(of which salaries)             (69,579)   (78,128)   (86,820)   (87,948)   (88,810)   (94,693)
Operating Costs + EGS (DH'000)   36,225     38,037     38,647     45,181     43,628     36,395
(excluding salaries)
Research Staff (No.)                168       210        217        224        219        232
Financial Resources (DH'000)        216        181        178       202        199        157
per Rescarch Staff
Source: INRA.



MOROCCO: AgriciltLaral Research anid Extenision Project
Appcndix B: Research Component
Table 4: Key Indicators for Research Component (Cumulative)
Activity                           I1990                1991    7           1992                 1993                1994                1995
Est.  I  Act.       Est.   I  Act.      Est.      Act.       Est.      Act.      Est.   I  Act.      Est.   I  Act.
Implementation Accounting     Unit                                                                     1       40%                  50%                 60%
and Financial System
Staff Recruitment
- Engineers                   Nb         11       100%       27        93%        44       75%        62        38         71        47        71        47
-Technicians                  Nb          5         0%       25         0%        40        15%       55        18         73        20        73        20
- Data Processing Specialists  Nb         3        33%        5        80%         5       80%         6         4          6         5         6         5
Houses                        Unit        3       100%       27        20%        27       25%        27        25         27        26        27        26
Tractors and Combines         Unit       10       240%       28       125%        37       95%        37        35         37        40        37        40
Vehicles                      Unit       47       111%       96        79%       110       77%        113       89        113       100       113       100
Fellowships
-2years                       Unit        3       183%        6       108%         9       72%         17        6.5       17        6.5       17        6.5
- I year                      Unit        4        75%        8        62%        18       28%        28         5.4       34        7.2       34        8.2
- 4 months                    Unit        5       170%       10        95%        20       47%        30         9.5       34       12.7       34       26.2
- 5 months                    Unit        I         0%        3         0%/O       5        0          5         0          5        0          5        0
Trips Abroad                 Weck        30        74%       12        90        121.5    120%        150      172.9      180      264.7      180      269.7
Research Training            Month        3       233%        9        94%        15       75%        26        11.3       26       22.2       26       22.2
Short'Term Consultants       Month        3         2.5      20         3%        35.5      3%        47         3         47        3         47        3
Only 8 new houses. The remaining 18 were rehabilitated.



MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX C
EXTENSION COMPONENT






MOROCCO: Agricultural Resexrch and Eitension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 1: Contact-Group T&V Extension in Project CTs and CMVs
1990               1991               1992               1993              1994              1995
CT   CMV CT   CMV                             CMV    CT   CMV   CT   CMV   CT  CMV
No. of CTs, CMVs involved                56       10        56        10       56       24         56       19       56       19      56       19
Number of Ext. Agents: Total            685       50       695       144      716      346        606      136      705      129     574      125
Number of Ext. Agents: T&V              293       30       292       49       278       55        279      42       393       39     281       38
Number of Ext. Agents: General          398       19       403       95       438      291        327      94       312       90     293       87
No. of Contact Groups                 6,498      398      7,423     387      7,104     352       6409     309      4,626     294   2,730      196
No. of Contact Group Visits          59,889    2,660    61,004    7,204    61,407    8,366    35,740   7,205    38,038   5,439  47,992   4,800
Number of Farmers in Contact Groups    239,556   63,810   255,020   56,746   257,035   43,224   229,703  36,704   114,857  29,729  52,412  26,349
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 2: Extension Personnel and Coverage: Project CTs Compared to Non-Project CTs
Type of CT                           No.                    Extension Staff by Extension Method
of CT        General        Contact        Women's           Total
Group         Extension
"Test" CT                             25            230            114                             344
"Pilot" CT                            17            144             66             10              220
"Integrated Project" CT               14            142             68              7              217
Total Project CTs                     56            516            248             17              781
Non-Project CTs                       66            604             29             15              648
General Total                         122          1,120           277             32             1,429
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 3: Extension Activities and Beneficiaries in Project CTs
Type ofActivity                    1990                  1991                  1992                  1993                 1994                 1995                  Total
|   No.   | Benef.  |  No.     Benef       No.       Benef.      No.      Benef.      No.   I Benef.       No.       Benef.      No.   I  Benef.
Training programs/sessions      285       5602        343       7721        420       7722        311      4529        322      5697        264       6600       1945       37871
Farmerfieldtrips                  88      2783         73       1882         94       2141         86      2100         89       1569       160      4005         590       14480
Extension agent field trips       10       260         30        667         44        962         40       512         38       496         35        875        197        3772
'Awareness days"                467      17994       612       26359        654      23431        498       1730       508      18236       735     22050        3474      109800
Demonstration plots            3541      32728      3372       29837       3166      26717       1149     24237       2220     30931       1228     30700       14676      175150
Competitions                    349      24666       369       12524        336       5868        190      9656        258      10526       222       5550       1724       68790
Manifestationsagricoles           53     17872         51      39864         60      16124         42     25214         40     23117         35      19640        281      141831
Meetings, individual contact  173009    420873    385334      762052    352945      776664    360426    633570    346306    562749    320701    495720    1938721    3651628
ContactGroup Visits(T&V)      59889    239556      61004      255020      61407     257035      35740    229703      38038    114857      47992     52412      304070    1148583
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 4: Key Indicators, Personnel and Vehicles, by Project Year, Extension Component
Activity                      1990             1991             1992             1993             1994               1995                     Total
est.  I actual    est.    actual    cst.   actual    est.  I actual    est.  I actual    cst.     actual     est.     actual      %
Staff Recruitment
Engineers                 28       32       18      20        8                       15                                             53        67        126
ExtensionAgents            10      19      30       18       16                                                                      56        31         55
Vehicle Purchase
4 WD                       18       7      21       30        1       1               10                                             40        4S        120
Light Vehicles            82       91      53       12      33        8               34                                            168        145        86
Minibus                    4        0        5      10        I       0                                                               10        10       100
Vans                       4        4      26       30        4       0                4                                             34        38        112
Pick-Up                                      3       3                                                                                3         3        100
Motorcycles              207       93      130     200      133     179      42       66      24        0                           536       538        100
Source: WB Supervision Mission Reports.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 5: Civil Works, Extension Component
Type of Construction                                           25 Test CTs                                  6 ORMVA          General
Total
Transfer to Collectivites Locales (1990-92)2  1993        Total CT                     per Type
1990        1991        1992      Total (1)      (2)        (1+2)           (3)          (1+2+3)
Office (20m2)                        5           7          10           22           0           22            19             41
Meeting Room (40m2)                  7           6          11           24           0           24             6             30
House (70m2)                         7          13          35           55           0           55            18             73
House(gOmr)                          0           0           0            0         20            20             0             20
House (100m2)                       10           5          10           25           0           25             6             31
Total units                         29          31          66          124         20           146            49             195
Source: MAMVA/DERD.
X  100% of planned construction for ORMVAs was realised.
2 Construction transferred to local communes is estimated to be currently 50% done, according to CTs concemed.
3 Actually constructed by the project.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 6: Women's Extension Activities during Project Period
1989        1990        1991        1992       1993
Number of animatrices recruited           7           2          16          11         0
Total number of animatrices             162         164        180          191       191
No. of Contacts                       3,666       3,709       4,579       8,252     4,026
Beneficiaries               3,742       4,649       5,511      10,430      4,026
No. of competitions                       0           2          2           13        20
Beneficiaries                   0          43          11         213       300
No. of meetings/information days      1,037       1,478       1,653       1,479      1,890
Beneficiaries               8,243      11,445      11,213      20,029     16,011
No. oftraining programs                 24           19         27           38        36
Beneficiaries                 786         218         733       1,075       444
No. of demonstration plots                0         199         165         148       300
Beneficiaries                   0         981       1,00 l        597      1,317
No. of women's field trips                6           8          12          13        15
Beneficiaries                  33         113        205          276       507
Note:  In 1994, there were a total of 49,968 women's extension activities of the type above, with 101,493
beneficiaries, and a ratio of 530 rural women per animatrice.
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 7: Training Conducted during Project, 1990-1995
Type of Training                                 1990            1991             1992             1993             1994             1995            Total
1. Training of Trainers (IAV Hassan 11 and ENA/Mcknes)
Number of Sessions                                      10               8               37               13               20                3               91
Number of Trainees                                    250              175              862              255              300               41            1,883
Days ofTraining                                        50               25              185               65              100               15              440
Trainee-Days                                         1,250             800            4,310            1,275            1,500              205            9,340
2. Training at CREPAs
Number of Sessions                                    175              170              213              101              118               51              828
NumberofTrainees                                     4,904            3,000           5,285            2,720            4,638            1,015           21,562
Days of Training                                      656              500              698              400              753              205            3,212
Trainee-Days                                        17,073           13,000           15,755           9,283           11,653            4,011           70,775
3. Training at National Training Center, Mehdia
Number of Sessions                                     55              103               83               86               69               61             457
Number of Trainees                                   1,874            3,695           3,380            3,292            2,693            2,365           17,299
Days ofTraining                                       115              255              264              263              218              161            1,276
Trainee-Days                                         4,106            8,341           9,219            8,830            7,281            6,145           43,922
Total
NumberofSessions                                      240              281              333              200              207              115            1,376
Number of Trainees                                   7,028            6,870           9,527            6,267            7,631            3,421           40,744
Days of Training                                      821              780            1,147              728            1,071             381             4,928
Trainee-Days                                        22,429          22,141           29,284           19,388           20,434           10,361          124,037
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultursl Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 8: Production of Audio-Visual Materials by DERD (ex-DVRA) during Project Period
Type of Product                     1990            1991            1992              1993              1994               1995               Total
Films                                       3              6                 6                8                  1                  7                 31
Television Spots                           17             19                19               10                  4                  4                 73
Slides and Photos                        840             900             1,400            1,796                  0                  0              4,936
Radio Emissions                            22             10                10                6                  0                 24                 72
Posters                                     4             15                 9                4                  7                 11                 50
Brochures                                   2              5                 7                2                  3                  3                 22
Pamphlets                                   3              5                 6                0                  8                 16                 38
Banners                                    35             50                 0                3                 19                 40                147
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Table 9: Audio-Visual Support, Project CTs Compared to Non-Project CTs, 30 June 1996
Type of CT                No.    Still     | Slide       Cassette    Video    I Video       Tele-      Over-head     16mm       Video       Photo        Slides      Video       Misc. Other
Camera    Projector   Radio       Player      Camera    vision       Projector     Film       Film       Album                    Cassette
"Test" CT                   25          56         36          55          19         36         31            21          17         85         8,703      5,836           40         1,938
'Pilot'CT                    17         44          15         26          11         30          IS            II         0          58         2,114      2,157            2           872
'Integrated Project" CT      14         14          12         12           5         35          16            5           1        166         1,506      1,548           16         1,554
Total Project CTs           56         114         63          93         35         101          65           37          18        309        12,323      9,541           58         3,466
Non-Project CTs             66          50         31          58           4          3           3            4           0          9         4,241      2,123            7         2,632
General Total              122         164         94         151         39         104         68            41          18        318        16,564     11,664           65         6,098
Source: MAMVA/DERD.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix C: Extension Component
Figure 1. Evolution of Number of Extension Agents, Contact
Groups In Project CT. and CMVs
8000
7000
1000
6(000
g                                           aro0
(K    600                                                                                                       4000
l
-                                                                                                                3000
4? 200000                                                                                                   0
200
1000
so                 91                  92       Year       93                  94                  95
- -total agents           ..... t&v agerts
- |  -general agents    -groups
Figure 2. Evolution of Contact Group Visits, Attending Farmers
350.000
300,000
250,000
S200.000
*1500000
100,000
5000  ..    ..    ..    ..   ..    ..   ..    ..   ..   ..    ..   ..   ..    ...  ...  ..    ..    ..   ..  
SD                  91                  92                  93                  94                  95
Year
visits         -         farmners present



MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX D
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING






MOROCCO: Agricultural Rescarch and Extension Project
Appendix D: Project Cost and Financing
Table 1: Research Component: Total Cost by Category and Financing
Categoaes   I     KfW (69%)       1        GTZ             Coop.Bnil.France   IGOM/KfW (31%)  IGrOM/Coop. nil.   I GOMtSalaries    I                 GOMIWB                  WB-                  Total
IDH'000 IUSS'000 IDH'000I USS'000 IDHW000O   USS'000_  DH'000I US$'000 IDH'000I USS'000 IDH'0O0 IUSS-000 IDH4'000 I  SS'O000O   DH'000  IUSS'000 IDHWO00O   US$'000
IA               32,630     3,687        -                                        14,655     1.656        --                                        2,824       305      17,345     1,873      67,454     7,521
m           ~~28,178    3.184        -                                        12,668     1,431        -         --                              7,352       849     29,409      3,397      77,607     8.861
IC                 .                                                      .-                              ..--                                     24,039     2,659      38,769     4,441      62,8081    7,100
ID)-                                     -          .          -          -                                                                                     -         2,199       206       2,199       206
Salaries           -          -          -          .          -                               -          -     -             18,111     2,046       -.-                                       18,111     2.046
TrainiogiTeeh.     -          -        16,147     1,824     10,485      1,184        .         -         603        68          -          -          --                   -          .        27,235     3,076
MAsasuwa
TOWa          60,808     6,871      16,147     1,824     10,485      1,184     27,323     3,087       603        68       18,111     2,046      34.215     3,813     87,722      9,917     255,414    28,810
Source: [NRA.
I   See details in Table 3.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix D: Project Cost and Financing
Table 2: Extension Component: Total Cost by Category and Financing
Categories    |GOM'                             l_WBz                                iTotal
l DH'000      |      S$'000     |    DH'000      F    US~$'000             D IH'000            US$'000
IIA               5,683             545              6,857              775               12,540              1,320
IIB              36,084            4,225            40,566             4,515             76,650               8,740
IIC              58,893            6,748            49,537             5,532            108,430              12,280
IID              10,238            1,144            11,762             1,296             22,000               2,440
Total            110,898           12,662           108,722            12,118            219,620              24,780
As provided by DERD.
2 See details in Table 3.



MOROCCO: Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Appendix D: Project Cost and Financing
Table 3: World Bank Loan Disbursement
Components           1990/91              1991/92               1992/93               1993/94              1994/95       1       1995/96              1996/97                Total
DH'000   USS'000   DH'000   USS'000   DH'000   USS'000   DH'000   US$'000   DH'000   USS'000   DH'DOO   US$'000   DH'000   USS'DOO   DH'000I US$'000
A. Researh
Category IA                   -          752         85      6,549       678       2,044       216        --                  3,368       363      4,632       531      17,345      1,873
lB                   -         6,774      762       5,344       616       2,901      309                   -         6,269      778       8,121       932      29,409     3,397
IC         -                  3,129       369       5,395       628       5,437      575         --                  5,228      633      19,580     2,236      38,769     4,441
ID         -                     96         12        314        33        272         28        -                   1,030        77        487        56       2,199       206
Subtotal     -          -       10,751      1,228     17,602     1,955     10,654      1,128       --                 15,895      1,851     32,820     3,755     87,7221     9,917'
B. Extension
Category IIA        --                                         -          -        2,422       255      2,342       271       2,093       249        -          -        6,857       775
J IB        7,974      972       5,932       667       3,445       387      7,932       837      12,267     1,293      3,016       359        -                   40,566     4,515
I IC        8,196      973       5,040       566        -          -       13,745      1,466     14,019     1,511      8,537      1,016       -                   49,537     5,532
l ID           8          I        --                              -        2,897       309       6,070      655       2,787       331        -                   11,762     1,296
Subtotal   16,178     1,946     10,972      1,233      3,445       387     26,996      2,867     34,698     3,730     16,433      1,955       --                 108,722    12,118
Total LOan       16,178      1,946     21,723     2,461     21,047      2,342     37,650     3,995     34,698     3,730      32,328     3,806     32,820     3,755     196,444    22,035
Disbursement
Including DH 7,267,300 (US$ 834,500) committed and foreseen to be disbursed before 31 Oct. 1996.






MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX E
INRA'S CONTRIBUTION
(RESUME)






Resume
La composante Recherche du projet Recherche-Vulgarisation Agricole fait partie
d'un programme decennal de developpement des sous secteurs de la Recherche et de la
vulgarisation agricole.  La premiere phase d'une duree de cinq ans (1990-1994),
prolongee ulterieurement a 1995, a ete financee par les prets BIRD 3036 MOR et KfW
89.65.915.
Elle a pour objectifs de doter l'INRA en personnel, equipements et financement du
fonctionnement des unites amenees a gerer les activites de recherche, d'executer cinq
programmes de recherche prioritaires relatifs au ble tendre, fourrages, oleagineux annuels,
olivier et viandes rouges.
En outre, le projet vise le renforcement des CRRA de Marrakech et Meknes, la
r6habilitation de onze domaines experimentaux et la creation de huit services de
recherche/developpement.
Par ailleurs, le projet avait pour objectif de renforcer la Division de l'Information
et de la Formation, de mettre a la disposition de l'INRA des bourses d'etudes et
l'assistance technique requise pour lancer les nouveaux programmes, de mettre en place
une nouvelle organisation comptable et financiere et, de renforcer le systeme informatique
de l'INRA.
Pour atteindre ces objectifs, un programme d'investissements a ete realise. I1 a
financ6 les cinq programmes prioritaires, ce qui a permis de construire leurs sieges, les
equiper en materiels de laboratoire et agricole, materiels informatique et audiovisuel et en
mat6riel de transport. En outre, ce programme a permis le renforcement des CRRAs de
Marrakech et Meknes et la rehabilitation des domaines experimentaux de Melk Zhar,
Zagora, Errachidia, Menara, Tassaout, Merchouch, El Koudia, Doyet, Ain Taoujdate,
Annaceur et Boukhalef Il a aussi finance l'equipement de huit services de
recherche/developpement dans les differents CRRAs, en les dotant en materiel necessaire.
Par ailleurs, le projet a financ6 la construction et 1'equipement du siege de la Division de
l'Information et de la Formation et 1' etude du module comptable. Le projet a enfin finance
les recrutements et la composante formnation et assistance technique.
A c8te de ce programme d'investissement, un train de mesures institutionnelles et
organisationnelles a et6 mis en oeuvre pour ameliorer 1'efficience des investissements
realises. Il s'agit de l'organisation des activites de recherche en programmes elabores
moyennant la methode de programmation par objectif, la decentralisation de la gestion et
la regionalisation des activites de recherche, l'institutionnalisation de la relation entre la
recherche et la vulgarisation et la mise en oeuvre du nouveau statut du chercheur et du
technicien.
Le rapport d'evaluation fait etat d'un certain nombre de risques identifi6s des le
debut du projet. Il s'agit du depart des chercheurs apres formation, de la revalorisation de



leurs salaires, des chances de reussite des travaux de recherche, de la disponibilite des
fonds de contrepartie du gouvemement et de la durabilite du projet a son achevement.
Toutefois, des mesures efficaces a m8me d'eliminer ces risques ont ete identifiees et mise
en oeuvre.
La composante recherche relevait de la responsabilite de l'INRA. Les differents
aspects du projet ont ete geres directement par les unites concernees. Une unite de
coordination a et creee pour faciliter la gestion du projet.
Meme si les accords de pret ont ete signes en septembre 1989, la premiere annie
du projet 6tait 1990. La premiere phase allait se terminer en juin 1995, cependant, compte
tenu des progres realises et des restrictions budgetaires, un certain nombre d'operations
d'investissement ont et differes. Par consequent, la mission de concertation de juin
1995 avait donne son accord pour la prolongation de la phase I au mois de juin 1996.
Le cout du projet a son identification s'eleve a 244.400.000 DH dont 22.230.000
DH de salaires supplementaires, 53.100.000 DH pour la composante formation/assistance
technique et 169.070.000 DH pour l'equipement proprement dit.
Le projet a ben6ficie de quatre sources de financement dont:
*  La Banque mondiale avec un pret de 10 millions $US qui finance l'equipement
et une partie du fonctionnement des cinq programmes prioritaires, les services
de recherche/developpement, la Division de l'Information et de la Formation
et la cellule de coordination. Par ailleurs, il finance le fonctionnement des
CRRAs de Marrakech et Meknes, suite a I'accord de la mission d'6valuation A
mi-parcours. Ce pret a egalement finance 1'etude du module comptable.
*  La partie allemande qui intervient par le biais de deux institutions:
a)    La KfW (pr8t de 13,5 millions DM) qui finance le renforcement des
CRRAs de Marrakech et Meknes et les domaines experimentaux sus-cites.
b)    La GTZ qui finance 1' assistance technique apportee aux programmes
Fourrages et Viandes Rouges.
*  La cooperation technique francaise couvre en principe la majeur partie de la
composante formation-assistance technique.
*  La partie marocaine participe au financement de toutes les composantes du
projet en couvrant des pourcentages fixes dans les accords de prets avec la
BIRD et la KfW, les salaires et une partie des frais de formation et
d'assistance technique conformement aux conventions de la cooperation
bilaterale.
-2 -



En matiere de realisations financieres, les engagements ont atteint 221,263 millions
DH pour l'equipement proprement dit. Ce montant est a comparer au couit initial du
projet qui s'eleve a 169,07 millions DH, ce qui represente un taux de realisation financiere
de 130%. Le montant des paiements a atteint 211,16 MDH a la date du 15 octobre 1996,
soit un taux de paiement de 95,4%. Le montant des paiements ayant fait l'objet de
decaissement a atteint 210,06 millions DH soit un taux de decaissement sur paiements de
99,47%.
Le montant des decaissements effectifs sur le pr8t BIRD a atteint 9.917 millions
$US sur 10 millions $US soit 99,17% alors que le montant des decaissements sur pr8t
KfW a atteint 10,71 millions DM sur 13,5 millions DM soit 79,33%.
En matiere de realisations physiques, presque tous les objectifs du projet ont et6
atteints. Les constructions sont realisees a 97,6%, le materiel agricole et d'irrigation a
87,8%, le materiel de laboratoire a 100%, le mat6riel informatique a 142%, les vehicules a
81,4%, le mobilier et le materiel de bureau a 94,4%, le materiel d'edition et l1'quipement
des bibliotheques a 97,8%, l'achat de cheptel vif a 67,1% et les ouvrages a 68,8% (cf.
Tab. 4).
Les realisations en matiere de recrutements sont en deca des objectifs. Elles ont
atteint 66,2% pour les ingenieurs et 27,4% pour les techniciens. Toutefois, les 47
ingenieurs recrutes ont largement ameliore le taux d'encadrement A l'INRA.
Les realisations restent en de=a des objectifs pour la formation diplomate, alors
que ceux-ci ont ete atteints et depasses pour les stages de courte duree. Les objectifs en
matiere d'assistance technique ont ete globalement atteints.
L'etude du module comptable n'est realisee qu'a 50%, ceci est do au non respect
des echeances par les consultants.
Les mesures institutionnelles et organisationnelles prevues ont ete mises en oeuvre.
En effet, les nouveaux statuts du chercheur et du technicien sont mis en application. La
methode de programmation par objectif est l'outil d'61aboration des programmes de
recherche de l'INRA. Elle a et appliquee en particulier pour les programmes finances qui
sont tous arrives au stade de programmation et budgetisation annuelle. Le processus de
programmation se fait dans un cadre de concertation avec les organismes de
developpement et l'interprofession. Le Groupement Interprofessionnel de la Recherche
Agronomique (GIRA) a e  cre.  C'est un organe d'orientation des commissions
sectorielles Recherche-Interprofession. L'INRA en a cree quatre jusqu'a maintenant pour
les secteurs des cereales - legumineuse, oleagineux annuels, agrumes et arboriculture
fruitiere et vigne.
Le processus de decentralisation de la gestion de l'INRA et de regionalisation de la
recherche est effectif actuellement. Differents CRRAs disposent d'Agences Comptables
deleguees. Les programmes de recherche sont bien implantes au niveau regional.
-3 -



Les services de recherche/developpement sont equipes dans tous les CRRAs et
sont fonctionnels. Ils entretiennent des relations avec le developpement dans le cadre du
comite national de transfert de technologie.
Seul le module suivi-evaluation accuse un retard et ce, a cause de la difficulte de sa
mise en oeuvre. D'ailleurs la mission d'evaluation a mi-parcours avait pris conscience de
ce probleme et 1'a reporte a F'annee 1996. Notons toutefois que des tentatives avaient eu
lieu en 1995 pour 1'evaluation des performances individuelles dans le cadre du projet
"Renforcement des Capacites de Gestion de l'INRA."
Les programmes de recherche finances sont dotes de chercheurs et d'6quipements
necessaires et produisent des resultats interessants qui devaient avoir globalement un
impact positif aussi bien sur la production agricole nationale, que sur 1'environnement.
Compte tenu des investissements realises, des recrutements effectues et dans le but de leur
utilisation rationnelle et de leur rentabilisation, le projet doit etre soutenu et poursuivi.
Ces resultats sont le fruit des bonnes relations qui ont existees entre la BIRD et la
KfW d'une part et l'INRA d'autre part. Les differents partenaires ont assure un suivi
regulier du projet depuis son commencement dans le cadre de missions de concertation a
un rythme moyen de deux missions par an.
Cependant, ces bons resultats ne nous empecherons pas de tirer les legons du
passe. En effet, le probleme de la non concordance des prix prevus et des prix effectifs
des constructions et des equipements, la faiblesse des ressources financieres de l'INRA,
l'irregularite de l'alimentation de sa tresorerie, la non prise en compte de sa sp6cificite en
tant qu'institution de recherche ont affecte l'ex6cution du projet et le respect des
echeances. Par ailleurs, il s'est avere que pour l'INRA, le couit de la formation doit etre
integre dans son budget d'equipement pour assurer le developpement de ses ressources
humaines.
La BIRD s'est acquittee de sa tache durant le projet. Globalement l'INRA a
respecte ses engagements. Le projet a permis de nouer des relations excellentes entre les
cadres de l'INRA et les experts de la Banque. Le projet a produit une multitude de
rapports dont les rapports d'audit des comtes realises par l'Inspecteur General des
Finances.
-4 -



MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX F
MAP






MOROCCO
Agricuttural Research and Extension Project
PROJECT LOCATION
Tan             Mediterranean Sea
O R      MV                                       ~~~~~~~ORV
/
GH R     , iK>T   - -as   ,            O  l      
RtWs,   ,
E-Joddo     --   '  ~~A      IFm  
¶d                I          K ston  T                 I
El-Joddq                                                  09,'A r|v,  8 @ix     
ORMVA                                IO,', ibg,      o    -        =           /
DOUIKCALA      -                      # @           IOwVf'o
At I a n t ic         s                               -% TA_ RA
I              '{  TAJld W                             @En*cHde        t /gl
Ocean                      "                             ~ ATAFIlALET
OAMVA2~ 
HAOUZ                                          i .
hrcll         <                    eOW=Clzi-             e                 , _ _ ]
ORMVA             j                   -
-godl  -^  ;    @   X               ^                    z r                   EXPERIMENIAL STATIONS
mo-s                                                           First Phase
/  j                   \                 tF               O    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Second PtKlse
f If   - - _ _ - -                         LY                             REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
/t1zt @TWI   -                                                                  ATd,  A  Flist Phase
-  -                        ,-'                                       A      Existng
n       Boundaiy of Reglonal OffIces
for Agriculfure Development
/Gu.Inlm                                         / _                                       Internatlond boundary
- - i---   Intemahlond boundiry P.ppro,dat.)
_  _  I   N                                  _- _-_.  Provincial boundary
Arcln%                             0               A   o      s so    o0o   iw Km                  e      Provincial capital
ICI 296-276/MOROAUP






TCI Project Report Sheet
Report No.:  Country:               Financing Institution:                       Cost USS Mill.:  FE %:
96/113       Morocco                FAONWB Cooperative Programme                          60.9     44
Mission title:   Agricultural Research and Extension Project                     F.E.US$ Mill.:      27.1
Date: 12/96            | Sub Sector:  Research and Ext                       Type: Implem. Reports
Mission code: 5MYCAR05PICRo1        Field Visit:  10/96                      Lang.: English
Mission Members
Suppa, Raffaele; Martini, Paul; Russell, John T.;
Objectives
To establish efficient national research and extension institutions for dissemination of improved agricultural technology so
as to increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes
Components
- Agricultural Research - Agricultural Extension
la. Gender relevant for Pr. I X |b. Gender analysis done?  I X 1k. Target women consid.?   X
id. Pov. alleviation rel.?    I X le. Target grps identified?  | X  . Target the poor?             | X|
Environmental Assessment: C - Normally not necessary
Ownership
GOV                            PRIV                               PROD
Score: B
Tools: NP,
Duration   7 years   0 months   0 days
No. Beneficiaries:    1,400,000
Cost per beneficiary: US$ 45
Area :               National
Cost per Ha.:        n/a
ERR:                   0.00
Main crops  : Olive Trees, Wheat, Oilseeds, Forage Crops and Livestock Production
Main Benefits  Strengthened INRA and DERD: Institutional Reorganization - Planning of Research and Extension
Activities
Subjects of Special interest
Modified T&V Extension; Revenues for Research; Programming by Objectives
Keywords
T & V System, Agricultural Research,
Dissemination of information : Within TCI
Input done by :  Di Cintio, Eliane                                                         Date :  6/12/96















IMAGING
Report No.:        16492
Type:     ICR



