Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3036 MOR
           (Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 22, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3036 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September  22,  1989,  between  KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the  Project  will  be carried out by National
Institute  for  Agricultural   Research   (INRA),  as  defined  in
Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement, with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to INRA part of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends  to  contract from external sources
(the  Cofinanciers)  loans  and   grants  (the  Cofinance)  in  an
Page  2
aggregate amount equivalent to  $15,600,000 to assist in financing
part of the  Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between
the Borrower and each of the Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and INRA;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MARA" means the Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
Land Reform (Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire);
     (b)  "DVRA"  means  the  Directorate  of  Extension  and Land
Reform (Direction de la  Vulgarisation  et  de la Reforme Agraire)
within MARA;
     (c)  "Agricultural Extension and Training Division" means the
division within DVRA, referred  to  in  Part  B.2 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement, responsible for extension;
     (d)  "DPA" means any of the Provincial Directorates for Agri-
culture (Direction Provinciale de  l'Agriculture) within MARA; and
"DPAs" means, collectively,  all  of  such Provincial Directorates
for Agriculture;
     (e)  "INRA" means  the  National  Institute  for Agricultural
Research (Institut National  de  la  Recherche Agricole), a public
enterprise established and  operating  pursuant  to the Borrower's
Law (Dahir) No. 1-81-204 dated April  8,  1981, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (f)  "CRRA" means any  of  the regional agricultural research
centers (Centre Regional  de  Recherche  Agronomique) of INRA; and
"CRRAs" means,  collectively,  all  of  said regional agricultural
research centers;
     (g)  "ORMVA" means any of the following regional agricultural
development  authorities  (Office  Regional   de  Mise  en  Valeur
Agricole) operating under  the  supervisory  authority  of MARA in
irrigated perimeters:  (i)  the  Regional Agricultural Development
Authority of  Haouz,  established  and  operating  pursuant to the
Borrower's Decree No.  831-66  dated  October  22,  1966; (ii) the
Regional  Agricultural   Development   Authority  of  Souss-Massa,
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 2-
70-157 dated October 8, 1970;  and (iii) the Regional Agricultural
Development Authority of Tadla, established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree  No.  828-66  dated October 22, 1966; and
"ORMVAs" means, collectively,  all  of  said regional agricultural
development authorities;
     (h)  "CMV" means  any  of  the  centers  (Centre  de  Mise en
Valeur) within an  ORMVA  responsible  for extension services; and
"CMVs" means, collectively, all of said centers;
Page  3
     (i)  "CT" means  any  of  the  extension  centers  (Centre de
Travaux)  operating  under  the   supervisory  authority  of  MARA
pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Law  (Dahir)  No.  1-56-3220, dated
January 31, 1957, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (j)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and INRA of even date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "Category" means a category of  items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the  Loan  as  set  forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (m)  "Basic Legislation" means the Borrower's Law referred to
in paragraph  (e)  of  this  Section;  the  Borrower's Law (Dahir)
No. 1-59-271 dated April  14,  1960,  as amended by the Borrower's
Law    No.  1-61-402,  dated  June  30,  1962,  pertaining  to the
Borrower's financial control of  its public enterprises, including
INRA; and any other  law  or  regulation of the Borrower affecting
the establishment or operations of  INRA;  all  as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (n)  "Agricultural Research Implementation Program" means the
program referred to in Section  2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
and
     (o)  "Agricultural  Extension  Implementation  Program" means
the program referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to twenty-eight
million dollars ($28,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in Dirhams  a  special account in the Borrower's
General Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1995, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
Page  4
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
     (a)  the Borrower shall carry out  Part B of the Project with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial  and  agricultural  practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose;
     (b)  without any limitation upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  (i) cause INRA to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of INRA therein  set forth, (ii) take or cause
to be taken all action,  including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and  other  resources,  necessary or appropriate to
enable INRA to perform  such  obligations,  and  (iii) not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance; and
     (c)  for the purpose of carrying  out  Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to INRA the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category (1) on a grant basis.
     Section  3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  the  Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that Part  B  of  the Project shall be carried
out in accordance  with  the agricultural extension implementation
program set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
     (a)  in order to enable INRA  to comply with the requirements
set forth in Part D of  the Schedule to the Project Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (i) prepare,  in accordance with guidelines satis-
factory to the Bank,  a  schedule  of adjustments to the structure
and levels of salaries  paid  to INRA's scientific staff, designed
to ensure that  the  employment  benefits  provided  to such staff
shall at all times  be  equivalent  to  those benefits provided to
Page  5
faculty members employed  by  the  Borrower's universities who are
engaged  in  research  activities;  and  (ii)  take  all  measures
necessary to ensure  that  said  schedule  of adjustments shall be
presented to the appropriate  authorities  not later than December
31, 1989 for approval and, upon approval, promptly introduced; and
     (b)  in order to ensure the efficient financial operations of
INRA, the Borrower shall: (i)  develop, on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank,  and introduce, budgeting, financial and
accounting policies and procedures to be applied by INRA; and (ii)
without limitation on the provisions  of sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph, assign to  each  of  the  CRRAs  in  Meknes, Settat and
Marrakech, not later  than  December  31, 1989, suitably qualified
accounting agents  to  be  responsible,  inter  alia,  for issuing
payment orders by such CRRA.
     Section 3.04.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Part A of the Project  shall  be  carried  out by INRA pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
Page  6
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
               tains a separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section  4.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall  take all
measures necessary to ensure that:
     (a)  the  Borrower's  proposed  investment  program  for  its
research and extension sub-sector  for  each  fiscal year shall be
prepared and furnished to the  Bank  not later than November 30 of
the previous year for the Bank's review and comments;
     (b)  the Bank shall be  afforded  a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said investment program; and
     (c)  thereafter, on the basis of said exchange of views, said
investment program shall  be  carried  out  with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural research and extension practices.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  INRA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that  INRA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Basic  Legislation  shall  have  been  amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or  waived  so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of  INRA  to  perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of INRA.
     (e)  The Cofinancing Agreements  shall  have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990,  or  such  later  date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for  the Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (f)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
Page  7
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the  event  specified  in   paragraph  (f)  (i)  (B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01  (c)  of  the General Conditions, namely,
that  the  budgeting,   financial   and  accounting  policies  and
procedures for INRA,  referred  to  in  Section  3.03  (b) of this
Agreement, have been introduced  in accordance with the provisions
thereof.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by  INRA,  and is legally binding upon
INRA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
Page  8
                                              Telex:
                                                 32715 M
                                                 31936 M
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                    By /s/ Ali Bengelloun
                                        Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  For Part A
     of the Project:
     (a)  Civil works            1,800,000     86%
     (b)  Equipment              3,600,000     100% of foreign
          and vehicles                         expenditures and
                                               80% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               items procured
                                               locally
Page  9
     (c)  Materials, fuel,       3,200,000     80% during calendar
          spare parts,                         years 1989 and
          farm inputs,                         1990; 70% during
          services for                         calendar years
          demonstrations                       1991 and 1992; and
          and trials, and                      50% thereafter
          travel allowances
     (d)  Fellowships,             400,000     100%
          study tours,
          training and
          consultants'
          services
                           Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2)  For Part B of
     the Project:
     (a)  Civil works            2,200,000     86%
     (b)  Equipment              5,400,000     100% of foreign
          and vehicles                         expenditures and
                                               80% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               items procured
                                               locally
     (c)  Materials, fuel,       7,600,000     80% during calendar
          spare parts,                         years 1989 and
          farm inputs,                         1990; 70% during
          services for                         calendar years
          demonstrations                       1991 and 1992; and
          and trials, and                      50% thereafter
          travel allowances
     (d)  Fellowships,             800,000     100%
          study tours,
          training and
          consultants'
          services
(3)  Unallocated                 3,000,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 28,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000,  may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before  that date but after July 1,
1988; and
     (b)  expenditures under  Category  (2)  until  the Bank shall
have received the following  plans  and programs acceptable to the
Page  10
Bank covering calendar year 1990: the staffing plan referred to in
Part B.3  (d)  of  Schedule  6  to  this  Agreement, the extension
program referred to in Part C.2  of said Schedule and the training
program referred to in Part D.2 of said Schedule.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist in carrying out a
program to strengthen the  organization and management of research
and extension  services  within  the  Borrower's  territory and to
upgrade and expand the provision of such services.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Research
1.   Strengthening,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Agricultural Research Implementation  Program,  of the management,
staff and research capabilities  of  INRA  in order to improve the
development  and  delivery  of   its  research  services  and  the
coordination of such services with extension activities.
2.   Development  and  carrying   out,   in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Agricultural Research Implementation Program, of
agricultural  research  programs  based   on  crop  and  livestock
specific research.
3.   Development  and  carrying   out,   in  accordance  with  the
provisions of  the  Agricultural  Research Implementation Program,
of training programs to improve the technical skills of INRA staff
involved in the carrying out of agricultural research activities.
4.   Provision  of:   research   and   technical  staff,  computer
equipment,   agricultural   and   laboratory   equipment,   office
equipment,  research  equipment   and  materials,  vehicles,  farm
inputs,  scientific  publications,  printing  equipment  and spare
parts.
5.   Construction   of   laboratories,   warehouses   and   office
facilities;  rehabilitation  of   13   research  farms,  including
construction  of   wells,   irrigation   facilities   and  housing
facilities therefor;  extension  of  the  CRRAs  in  Marrakech and
Meknes,   including   construction    and/or   rehabilitation   of
laboratory,  office   and   warehouse   facilities  therefor;  and
extension of INRA's Rabat library.
Part B:   Agricultural Extension
1.   Strengthening,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
Agricultural   Extension    Implementation    Program,    of   the
organization, management,  staff,  and  technical,  monitoring and
evaluation capabilities of  MARA  to  improve  the development and
delivery of agricultural  extension  services and the coordination
of such services with INRA's research activities.
2.   Development  and  carrying   out,   in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the  Agricultural  Extension Implementation Program,
of agricultural extension  programs  adapted  to the environmental
and socio-economic conditions of the  areas in which such programs
are carried out.
3.   Development  and  carrying   out,   in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the  Agricultural  Extension Implementation Program,
of training programs to improve  the  technical skills of staff of
MARA,  the  ORMVAs  and  the  CTs  involved  in  the  provision of
extension services.
4.   Provision of  technical  staff,  vehicles,  demonstration and
Page  11
audio-visual   equipment,   data   processing   equipment,  office
equipment, farm inputs, materials and spare parts, all as required
for the  provision  of  extension  services  under  Part  B of the
Project.
5.   Construction and equipping  of  an extension training center,
construction  and  equipping  of   office,  meeting  and  workshop
facilities  to   be   utilized   for   extension   activities  and
construction  and  rehabilitation  of  housing  facilities,  to be
utilized by staff involved in extension activities.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1994                                      515,000
February 15, 1995                                    535,000
August 15, 1995                                      555,000
February 15, 1996                                    575,000
August 15, 1996                                      595,000
February 15, 1997                                    620,000
August 15, 1997                                      645,000
February 15, 1998                                    670,000
August 15, 1998                                      695,000
February 15, 1999                                    720,000
August 15, 1999                                      750,000
February 15, 2000                                    775,000
August 15, 2000                                      805,000
February 15, 2001                                    835,000
August 15, 2001                                      870,000
February 15, 2002                                    905,000
August 15, 2002                                      935,000
February 15, 2003                                    975,000
August 15, 2003                                    1,010,000
February 15, 2004                                  1,050,000
August 15, 2004                                    1,090,000
February 15, 2005                                  1,130,000
August 15, 2005                                    1,175,000
February 15, 2006                                  1,220,000
August 15, 2006                                    1,265,000
February 15, 2007                                  1,315,000
August 15, 2007                                    1,365,000
February 15, 2008                                  1,415,000
August 15, 2008                                    1,470,000
February 15, 2009                                  1,520,000
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Page  12
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Morocco may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Vehicles estimated to cost  not  more  than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000,  laboratory  equipment estimated to cost
not more than the equivalent  of  $200,000  per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $1,800,000, and
civil works  and  agricultural  and  office  equipment (other than
computer  and  audio-visual  equipment),  regardless  of  the cost
thereof, may be procured under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Motorbikes, up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to exceed the
equivalent of $1,100,000,  spare  parts  for vehicles estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  100,000  per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $2,600,000, and
other goods estimated to cost  less than the equivalent of $10,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $6,200,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison  of  price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Fuel  may  be   procured   in   accordance  with  the  normal
procurement practices of the purchaser thereof.
4.   Services  required  for  trials  and  demonstrations  may  be
Page  13
procured under negotiated contracts or force account in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or  more, and with respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to DH15,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
Page  14
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the SpecialAccount (or, if the 
Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
Page  15
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                 Extension Implementation Program
     In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall  take  the following actions in accor-
dance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
A.   Organization and Management of Part B of the Project
1.   Project  Management.  The   overall  responsibility  for  the
implementation of Part B  of  the  Project  shall be vested in the
Director of DVRA who  shall  be  responsible, inter alia, for: (a)
preparation of operational plans for said Part B; (b) coordination
of the recruitment of  staff  and consultants; (c) coordination of
the preparation of  documents  for  the  procurement  of goods and
works; (d) coordination of the  training to be provided under said
Part B; and (e) consolidation  and  furnishing  to the Bank of the
plans,  schedules,  reports  and  records  and  other  information
referred to in Sections  9.06  and  9.07 of the General Conditions
for said Part B.
2.   Coordination Unit. (a) In order  to assist DVRA's Director in
the performance of his functions under  Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain throughout the execution of said Part B, a
coordination unit within DVRA to  be responsible for review of all
documents for the  procurement  of  goods,  works and consultants'
services, and preparation and  consolidation  of the documents and
information referred to in Part A.1 (e) of this Schedule.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  staff  said  unit with one qualified
engineer and one qualified  technician throughout the execution of
Part B of the Project.
3.   Monitoring and Evaluation. (a) The Borrower shall develop and
apply, not later than June 30,  1990, and at all times thereafter,
policies and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, designed to:
(i) enable each DPA and ORMVA properly to monitor and evaluate the
carrying out by its CTs or CMVs,  as the case may be, of extension
activities under Part B of  the  Project;  and (ii) enable DVRA to
consolidate  and  analyze  the  results  of  said  monitoring  and
evaluation  activities.    The   results  of  the  monitoring  and
evaluation activities referred to in  (i) above, together with any
changes proposed  by  the  DPAs  and  ORMVAs  to  be introduced in
extension activities, shall be communicated  twice a year to DVRA.
These results and proposed changes  shall  be analyzed by DVRA and
the results of such analysis shall be communicated to the Bank for
its  comments.  The  Borrower,   through  DVRA,  shall  thereafter
promptly introduce such changes in the extension activities of the
CTs and CMVs as shall  have  been  agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
     (b)  In order to assist  the  Borrower in the development and
application  of  the  policies   and  procedures  referred  to  in
paragraph  (a)  of  this   Section,   the  Borrower  shall  employ
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Organization of Extension Services under Part B of the
     Project
Page  16
1.   National Committee. In order to ensure the proper development
of agricultural  extension  policies  and  programs throughout the
Borrower's territory, the Borrower  shall establish not later than
December  31,  1989,  and  thereafter  at  all  times  maintain  a
committee composed inter  alia,  of  representatives  of MARA, the
DPAs,  the  ORMVAs,  INRA   and   farmers'  organizations,  to  be
responsible for developing  the  Borrower's agricultural extension
policies and reviewing the  carrying out of agricultural extension
programs in light of said  policies.  Said committee shall meet at
least once a year.
2.   Agricultural Extension  and  Training  Division.  In order to
strengthen MARA's capabilities in the development and coordination
of agricultural extension  activities,  the  Borrower shall at all
times maintain a division within DVRA, with suitably qualified and
experienced staff  in  adequate  numbers,  to  be  responsible for
developing and supervising  the  carrying  out of (a) agricultural
extension programs throughout the  Borrower's territory and audio-
visual activities in support  of  such extension programs, and (b)
training programs  for  staff  involved  in agricultural extension
activities.  A team  of  at  least four subject matter specialists
with adequate agricultural field  experience  shall be assigned to
the Agricultural Extension  and  Training  Division  to assist and
coordinate the teams of subject  matter specialists referred to in
paragraph 3 of this Part B.
3.   Regional and  Local  Organization.  In  order  to improve the
organization and management of extension  services under Part B of
the Project, the  Borrower  shall  take  all measures necessary to
ensure that:
     (a)  At the regional  level,  a  unit  shall  at all times be
maintained within each  DPA  and  ORMVA  to  be responsible, inter
alia, for managing  extension  activities  carried  out within the
area served by such DPA or ORMVA,  as the case may be. Within each
such unit, four sub-units  shall  be  established and at all times
maintained, each one to  be  responsible  for one of the following
activities: (i) extension services, including group and individual
extension services, mass media and extension services specifically
addressing  the  needs   of   female   farmers;  (ii)  promotional
assistance  to  agricultural  organizations;  (iii)  training; and
(iv)  monitoring  and   evaluation.   A   suitably  qualified  and
experienced chief shall  at  all  times  be  assigned to each such
unit. Teams of  subject  matter  specialists  shall be assigned to
each DPA and ORMVA to assist field level staff in performing their
tasks and shall report to  the  Director  of such DPA or ORMVA, as
the case may be.    These  specialists shall be responsible, inter
alia, for  identifying  training  needs  of  extension  agents and
participating in  training  activities,  as  well  as coordinating
extension activities with research activities of the CRRAs.
     (b)  At the field level,  three  units  shall at all times be
maintained within each CT and CMV, each unit to be responsible for
one of the following  activities: provision of extension services,
promotional   assistance   to   agricultural   organizations   and
administration. The unit  responsible  for  provision of extension
services shall be organized into  three  sub-units, each one to be
responsible  for  one  of  the  following  activities:  group  and
individual   extension,   mass   media   and   extension  services
specifically addressing the needs of female farmers. The following
staff shall  be  assigned  to  each  such  extension  unit:  (i) a
suitably qualified  and  experienced  agricultural  specialist who
shall be responsible for  the  supervision of all extension agents
assigned to such unit;  (ii)  suitably qualified extension agents;
and (iii) when more than 10  extension agents are assigned to such
unit,  a  suitably   qualified   assistant  to  such  agricultural
specialist.
     (c)  The number of extension agents to be assigned to each CT
and CMV for group extension  activities shall be determined on the
basis of the criteria of assigning agents so as to reach about 20%
of the farm families in  rainfed areas receiving an average annual
Page  17
rainfall of at least 400 milimeters and about 50% of such families
in irrigated areas, and of  assigning  one agent to about 320 farm
families in rainfed areas and one agent to about 160 farm families
in irrigated areas. These  arrangements  may be varied taking into
account the complexity of the farming system in the area served by
such CT or CMV, as  the  case  may be, environmental conditions in
such area affecting the farming system, the extent of the farmers'
needs for extension services, the  distance of travel and the ease
of communication.
     (d)  DVRA shall prepare  and  furnish  to  the Bank not later
than November 30 of each  year  a  staffing plan for the following
year for  all  CTs  and  ORMVAs.  The  Bank  shall  be  afforded a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said
plan and, thereafter, such plan  as shall have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank shall be promptly carried out.
C.   Extension Programs
1.   Extension  activities  shall  involve  the  dissemination  of
technical  information   through   the   carrying   out  of  field
demonstrations for, and visits to,  farmers  and the use of audio-
visual aids and mass media. Extension activities shall be prepared
in collaboration with the CRRAs  and  shall be designed to address
specific farming problems identified on  the basis of exchanges of
views with farmers.
2.   The Borrower shall: (a)  formulate, through DVRA, and furnish
to the Bank not later than October  31 of each year for the Bank's
review and comments, a  proposed agricultural extension program to
be carried out by the  CTs  and  CMVs  under Part B of the Project
during the following calendar  year;  and  (b) thereafter take all
measures necessary to ensure the carrying  out by the CTs and CMVs
of such extension program  as  shall  have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
3.   The  Borrower  shall,   through   DVRA:   (a)  formulate,  in
consultation with the DPAs and the ORMVAs, and furnish to the Bank
not later than  September  30,  1989,  for  the  Bank's review and
comments, a proposed program covering the period from 1990 through
1993 for the  production  of  audio-visual materials for extension
and training purposes; and  (b) thereafter promptly implement such
program as shall have  been  agreed  between  the Borrower and the
Bank. In order to assist DVRA in the carrying out of such program,
the  Borrower  shall  employ   not   later  than  June  30,  1990,
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Training
1.   DVRA shall plan and  organize  all  training activities to be
carried out under Part B of the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall through  DVRA:  (a) prepare and furnish to
the Bank not later than September  30  of each year for the Bank's
review and comments a training program for extension staff for the
following calendar year;  and  (b)  thereafter  promptly carry out
such training  program  as  shall  have  been  agreed  between the
Borrower and the Bank.
3.   In order to assist DVRA  in  developing and carrying out said
training programs,  the  Borrower  shall  employ  consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms  of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
