Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3036 MOR
           (Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
           NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
                     Dated September 22, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3036 MOR
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  22,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and NATIONAL
INSTITUTE FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (INRA).
     WHEREAS by the Loan  Agreement  of even date herewith between
Kingdom of Morocco  (the  Borrower)  and  the  Bank,  the Bank has
agreed to make  available  to  the  Borrower  an amount in various
currencies   equivalent    to    twenty-eight    million   dollars
($28,000,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that INRA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank  as  are  set forth in this Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS INRA, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  Loan  Agreement  and  the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part A of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  INRA  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and agricultural
research practices, and shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the  Bank and INRA shall otherwise
agree, INRA shall carry out  Part  A  of the Project in accordance
with the Research Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Part A of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. INRA shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) INRA  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to progress of Part A of
the  Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  INRA shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan,
or  the  performance  by  INRA   of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of INRA
     Section 3.01. INRA shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. INRA shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
     Section 3.03. INRA shall take out and maintain with responsi-
Page  3
ble insurers, or  make  other  provision  satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  INRA  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  INRA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of INRA thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify INRA thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For INRA:
          Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
          Boite Postale 415
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INRA                           DRA 31702 M
                Avenue de la Victoire
                Rabat
                Kingdom of Morocco
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of INRA may  be taken or executed by the chief
executive officer of INRA or such  other person or persons as said
person shall designate in writing,  and  INRA shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
                    By /s/ Ali Bengelloun
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                  Research Implementation Program
     In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A of the
Project, INRA shall take the  following actions in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
A.   Organization and Management of Part A of the Project
Page  5
     1.   The overall  responsibility  for  the  implementation of
Part A of the Project  shall  be  vested in INRA's chief executive
officer, who  shall  be  responsible,  inter  alia,  for:  (a) the
preparation  of  operational  plans  for  said  Part  A;  (b)  the
recruitment of staff and consultants;  (c) the coordination of the
preparation of documents for  the  procurement of goods and works;
(d) the organization of  the  training  to  be provided under said
Part A; (e) the  linkage  of  all agricultural research activities
with MARA; and (f) the  preparation  and furnishing to the Bank of
the plans, schedules,  reports  and  records and other information
referred to in Sections  9.06  and  9.07 of the General Conditions
for said Part A.
     2.   In order to assist INRA's chief executive officer in the
performance of his  coordinating  functions  under  Part  A of the
Project,  INRA  shall   establish   and  maintain  throughout  the
execution of Part  A  of  the  Project  a coordination unit within
INRA's  research  programming  division   to  be  responsible  for
reviewing all documents for  the  procurement  of goods, works and
consultants' services and preparing  the documents and information
referred to in Part A.1 (f) of this Schedule.
B.   Research Programs
     1.   INRA's   research   programming    division   shall   be
responsible  for  developing   annual  multidisciplinary  research
programs focussing on priority  crops  and animals, and monitoring
and evaluating the carrying out  thereof. The research programs to
be developed and carried  out  under  Part  A of the Project shall
focus on the following: bread  wheat, forage crops, livestock, oil
seeds and  olives.  These  programs  will  be  designed to address
problems faced by farmers  in  producing  such crops and livestock
and to recommend  appropriate  policies  and procedures to improve
their production and quality.  To  enable INRA properly to develop
and carry out such programs, INRA  shall employ on its staff about
73 qualified  technicians  and  about  71  qualified engineers, in
accordance with the following schedule:
                         1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
          Engineers:      11     16     17     18      9
          Technicians:     5     20     15     15     18
     2.   The CRRA in Meknes  shall be assigned responsibility for
carrying out the research programs  developed  under Part A of the
Project which focus  on  bread  wheat,  oil  seeds, olives, forage
crops and livestock produced in  areas receiving an average of 400
milimeters of rain per  year  or  more;  and the CRRA in Marrakech
shall be assigned  responsibility  for  carrying  out the research
programs developed under Part  A  of  the  Project which  focus on
olives, forage crops and livestock  produced in areas receiving an
average of less than 400 milimeters of rain per year. To this end,
about 20 suitably qualified  research scientists shall be assigned
to each of these CRRAs. To  assist INRA in carrying out its annual
research programs, INRA  shall  employ,  not  later  than June 30,
1990, the  following  consultants  with qualifications, experience
and  terms  of  reference  satisfactory   to  the  Bank:  (a)  one
specialist  in  genetic  improvement   of  bread  wheat;  (b)  one
specialist in bread wheat cropping  systems; (c) one specialist in
agronomy and  protection  of  oil  seeds;  (d)  one  specialist in
agronomy and protection  of  olives;  and  (e)  two specialists in
genetic  improvement,  feeding   and   management   of  sheep  and
improvement of pastures.
     3.   Suitably located research  farms  of  INRA shall be made
available to the CRRAs as and  when necessary to enable such CRRAs
to carry out field work required for their research programs under
Part A of the Project.  Any  other  activities carried out on such
farms, such as seed multiplication and crop production activities,
shall be managed separately from the CRRAs' field work.
Page  6
     4.   In order  to  facilitate  the  improved  coordination of
research and extension  activities:  (a)  INRA  shall at all times
maintain  a  technical  committee  with  membership  and  terms of
reference  satisfactory  to  the   Bank  to  be  responsibile  for
formulating INRA's research  policies  in  consultation with DVRA;
(b) the director of  DVRA  or  the  chief of the DVRA Agricultural
Extension and Training  Division  shall  be  invited to attend all
meetings of said technical committee to advise on matters relating
to extension services;  and  (c)  a  research and development unit
will be established in each  of  the CRRAs with suitably qualified
staff in adequate  numbers,  including,  inter  alia, at least one
engineer  and  two  technical   agents,   to  be  responsible  for
developing permanent exchanges of views and information among CRRA
research staff extension staff of the DPAs and ORMVAs and farmers.
In order to facilitate  such  cooperation between extension agents
and CRRA research staff,  such  units  shall provide assistance to
the DPAs' and ORMVAs' teams  of  subject matter specialists in the
carrying out of their activities.
C.   Training
     1.   Under Part  A.3  of  the  Project,  INRA  shall take all
measures necessary  to:  (a)  develop  and  carry  out an overseas
training  program  which   shall   include  training  at  academic
institutions  to  enable  INRA's  staff  to  obtain  post-graduate
degrees in pertinent subjects,  and  to  upgrade the skills of its
engineering and technical staff;  and  (b) enter into arrangements
with appropriate overseas research institutions designed to enable
INRA's  management  to  exchange  views  with  management  of such
institutions on policies and  procedures to encourage agricultural
development.
     2.   In order to  assist  INRA  in  the  supervision of prep-
aration by INRA  research  staff  for  post-graduate degrees, INRA
shall employ advisers with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Personnel Management
     INRA shall  at  all  times  maintain  employment policies and
procedures designed to encourage and reward quality performance by
research staff in the pursuit of their duties in INRA.
E.   Financial Management
     1.   INRA shall apply, not later  than March 31, 1990, and at
all times  thereafter,  the  budgeting,  financial  and accounting
policies and procedures referred  to  in  Section  3.03 (b) of the
Loan  Agreement.  To  this   end,   INRA   shall,  prior  to  such
application, develop and carry out  a training program designed to
improve the financial  management  capabilities  of  its staff. To
assist INRA in  developing  and  carrying  out  such program, INRA
shall employ consultants with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
     2.   Without limitation  on  the  provisions  of  paragraph 1
above, INRA  shall  introduce,  not  later  than  March  31, 1990,
separate accounting systems for  research  activities and seed and
crop production activities carried out on INRA's research farms.
