Docwu.uz of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONLY
Rqeot No. P-5831-lUR
NMORAIIDUN ANID RECOIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
TNTERNATIONAL BAINK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIMET
TO THE
5ECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORK LOAN (PERL)
IN AN AMUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$11 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
AUGUST 11, 1992
Ml CRF 1 CHE COPY
Repport No. P  5631-UR        Type: (PR)
Title:  PUPL1C ENTEXPRISTE REFORM LOAN
Author: DAMMWi RT, ALFREDO
Ext. :30142 Roorn:I6140 Dept.;:LA4TF
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial dties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizadon.



RuaNCY UNIT
The currency of Uruguay is the new Uruguayan peso which is managed by the
Central Bank within a crawling peg system.  As of July 30, 1992, the
exchange rate stood at 3,110 new pesos to the U.S. dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Decembei 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFE       -    State Railway Company
ANCAP     -    State Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement Entity
ANP       -   National Port Entity
ANSE      -    National Stevedoring Services Association
ANTEL     -    State Telecommunications Entity
BHU       -    State Housing Bank
BOD       -    Board of Directors
BROU      -    Bank of the Republic
CONTEL    -    National Telecommunications Commission
CTM       -    Salto Grande Technical Commission
DDSR      -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DNH       -    National Directorate for Hydrography
DNE       -   National Directorate of Energy
FY        -    Fiscal Year
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -    Gross National Product
NERCOSUR  -    'Common Market of the South" involving Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay
MIE       -   Ministry of Industry and Energy
MTOP      -   Ministry of Transport and Public Works
NEL       -    National Electricity Law
OPP       -    Office of Planning and Budgeting
OSE       -    State Water and Sewerage Company
PC Unit   -    Project Coordinating Unit
PE(s)     -    Public Enterprise(s)
PERL      -    Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PLUNA     -    State Aviation Company
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility
UTE       -    State Power Entity
TOE       -    Tons of Oil Equivalent
TOR       -    Terms of Reference
Ths report bh be prepared by Alredo Dammert (Task Masge) with the celaborallon of the Team emars Chakih Kheil
(IATIE). Rturdo Klockner, Gsao Unda (L4AE), Marwelo Anloin (CFSPS), Eloy Vidal (ASTlE), jlse caiho, Reynaldo Pastor
(LEGLA), Fernando Vinl ad Antonlo Matnetto (eonsulants), ad Peer rvew  John Ndlls (CECPS), Nelson de Franco (IA41E).



FOR 0MCUL Us ONLY
- ii -
11=C 3uT I     NM0  noT
Lh AND  C03T  UMIRY
1211  1wos          Rep6blica Oriental del Uruguay
*b flcisriess       Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP)
_ n&$               US$11 million equivalent
lomt rfifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
GVoernment          US$ 5.6 million
IBRD                US$11.0 million
Japanese Grant      USS 2.4 mili n
Total               US$19.0 million
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Staff Annraisal *Ioort: n.a.
This documet has & uesuicted  ibudon and may be used by cipients only In te pomam
of theic W dudeL Its coa 1n1  may not ot1hewiOe be 4iscloed wbtout Wol Bank &u&tM1wo



MEMORANDUM AND RZCOIND^ATION
OF TUE PREsIDEwT O0 TsE INTERBATIONAL
BARR FOR REONSTRUCTIOI AND DEVELOPRENT
TO TmE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORs
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
TO TME REPUBLIC OF URUGUAX
1.   I submit the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Rep6blica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$11 million to help
finance a Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL). The loan would be on standard
IBnD terms repayable over 15 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. This Technical Assistance Loan will support the
Government's public enterprise reform/privatization program.
2.   Aackaround.  Public Enterprises (PEs) in Uruguay account for about 121 of
GDP, similar to that in industrial countries and other Latin American countries.
However, their monopoly position and low investment levels have led to the
provision of low quality goods and services and distorted prices. This has often
constrained the development of productive activities in other sectors. The prior
Uruguayan administration sought improved public sector efficiency, eliminating
railway passenger services, implementing performance contracts for key PEs, and
reducing arrears among PEs and the public sector. The present Government is
seeking to deepen these reforms both at the central government and PR levels,
although the former is slowed by legislative and constitutional restrictions.
3.   Government Strategv.  The proposed reforms stem from the administration's
belief that the public sector is overdimensioned and outdated. The authorities
also consider that if Uruguay is to compete effectively within the proposed free
trade union with Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay (HERCOSUR) and other markets,
private enterprise must have much broader opportunities to invest and operate in
sectors restricted to state monopolies. The resulting strategy calls for: (a)
strengthening the Government's regulatory functions, separating them from
parastatal control; (b) delimiting the role of the public sector, terminating
its monopoly in key fields; and (c) explicitly providing for private
participation in these sectors. The initial phase of this strategy, to be
supported under the proposed project, aims at: (a) improving the attractiveness
of Uruguay's regional services in transportation, telecomuunications and power;
and (b) enhancing Uruguay's international trade capabilities by overcoming
Montevideo Port'sa inefficiencies and shortcomings.
4.   To implement its program, the Government has obtained Congressional approval
oft (a) a Public Enterprise law allowing inter alia the sale of stock to private
capital in the telecommunications company (ANTEL) and the main aviation company
(PLUNA), and for private participation in future power system expansion within
the state power company's (UTE) network; and (b) a Port Reform Law that permits
private concessions by the port administration (ANP) and deregulation of
stevedoring services. The Government has already hired legal and financial
advisors to assist in the privatization of ANTEL and PLUNA, which is expected to
take place by end-1992.  During 1992, th4 Government will also issue new
regulations for telecommunications, aviation and power to ensure sector



-2-
competitiveness end officiency. Once these reforms are underway, the Government
tutends to address other sectors, such as water and sewerage services, railways,
and the domain of ANCAP, which holds the monopoly of oil and gas activities,
alcohol and cement. This, however, would require further legislation.
S.   Ratinale for Bank. I nolvement .    The Bank h8s provided structural
adjustment loans (SALo) to Uruguay to bolster policy changes in trade, social
securityg,  public  investment,  and the legal  end financial systems.   The
authorities also have expanded trade and banking reforms under the recent DDSR
loan. With these changes well advanced, the focus of the Uruguay.n policy agenda
has now shifted to reducing the role of the state and stimulating greater private
participation in productive fields. The proposed project is designed to remove
significent constraints to Uruguayan economic growth within the context of the
Bank's extended support for structural reforms, and supports the Government's
intention tc create opportunities for greater private initiative in economic
development. The Bank has already played a key role in the design and promotion
of public enterprise refo-m in Uruguay and channeled US$3.86 million for project
preparation, including an advance of US$1.5 million from the PPP sad US$2.36
million from the Japanese Grant Facility. The proposed project constitutes a
major step towards reforming important PEs and related sectors that represent 462
of revenues and 602 of employment of all non-financial PEs.   The Bank's
experience worldwide in dealing with reform/privatization cases should help
ensure an adequately conceived, transparent, end well implemented process.
6.   Prolect Objectives.  The proposed loan would support the Government's
efforts to improve services and reduce the size of the public sector, under a
transparent and competitive process, focussing on telecommunications, transport,
and power. It would finsace the external expertise necessary to develop sectoral
policies, appropriate regulatory frameworks, and implement PE restructuring/
privatization programs.
7.   Proiect Descrivtion. This technical assistance project is fully described
in Annex 1. Detailed cost estimates are shown in Schedule A. The matrix of
project activities (Attachment 1, Annex 1) includes information on activities,
outputs, impact and timing. Sectoral profiles on telecommunications, aviation,
ports and power are provided in Annexes 2 to 5.   The project will finance
expenditures (mostly for consultants) to assist the Government in the following
activitiess
(a)  Institutional Framework for ImvlementatIon.  (i) Strengthening the
Government's capacity for executing and supervising its PR reform
program through the staffing and training of the State Reform
Executive Committee (US$663,000); and (ii) developilg marketing
csapaigns to promote private investment in Pgs and seminars to learn
from similar privatization processes in other countries (US$605,000).
(b)  Telecommunications. &Reulatorv Framework: (i) Preparing a diagnosis
and strategic plan for restructuring the telecommunications sector
(US$700,000; already implemented with PPF funds); and (ii) designing
a regulatory framework for telecommunications and setting-up a
regulatory entity (US$1,000,000; including US$655,000 under Japanese
Grant).    PE  Reform:  (iii)  privatizing  the  telecommunications
enterprise (ARIEL) (US$2,505,000; including US$905,000 under Japanese
Grant).



(c)   lilnos    RegulatorX  Framework:  (i) Revlewing and revising the
Aviation Code to facilitate private sector participation (US$500,000).
PE Reform: (iW) auditing PLUAL's finascial statements and preparing
a market valuatioui (US$114,000; under implementation with PPF funds);
and (iii) privatizing PLURA (US$1,023,000).
(d)  Ports.  Regulatory FXsaevorks (i) implementing the new regulatory
framework (US$900,000). PE/Sector Reform: (ii) Implementing the new
organization of the Nationsl Port Entity (ANP), the Port Captaincy and
port related agencies (US$1,300,000); (iii) developing operational
methods and procedures for the port, including coordination with
private operators (US$700,000); and (iv) providing other assistance
for divestiture of selected ANP non-commercial activities and
practical operational training (US$400,000).
(a) Power. Reaulatorv frameworkt (i) developing a regulatory framework
to allow private operators within the national power system
(US$400,000; including a Japanese Grant for US$300,000); and (ii)
establishing a regulatory commissiun for power (US$100,000).   PE
Reform: (iii) studying privatization options and subsequent
implementation strategy for UTe's selected generation plants
(US$400,000).
(f) Other Assistance. This component will provide assistance for: (i)
reforming the Ministry of Agriculture (KGAP) through redimensioning
andlor divestiture of extension and other services (US$1,106,000,
including US$506,000 under the Japanese Grant); (ii) preparing a
diagnosis of ANCAP*s cement and alcohol plants including options and
assistance for their privatization (US$350,000); and (iii) peripheral
privatizations of public entities such as local airports and ambulance
services (US$600,000).
8.   Prosect Implementation and Financina. The Borrower would be the Government
of Uruguay, with the Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP) as the executing
agency. The latter's Executive Committee for State Reform would serve as the
project coordinating unit, which will be considerably strengthened for project
implementation and supervision. The Government has appointed three full time
members to it and is in the process of hiring additional staff. The total
project cost is estimated at US$19 million equivalent, of which US$11 million
equivalent would be financed by the Bank, approximately US$2.4 million by
Japanese Grants (already approved), and the remaining US$5.6 million by the
Government. Approximately 1,000 man-months of consultants will be financed under
the Project, with Government counterparts estimated at 1,900 man-months. Taking
account of previous experience in Uruguay, project completion has been prudently
targeted at June 30, 1996, with the loan Closing Date of December 31, 1996
although we anticipate that the project will be completed earlier. Retroactive
financing of US$1 million from March 1, 1992 would be provided to: (a) finance
advisory services to assist the Government in the privatization of ANTEL and
PFLUM; and (b) finance consultants to develop the regulatory frameworks for the
telecommunications and aviation sectors. The amounts outstanding from advances
of US$1.5 million under the Project Preparation Facility will be refinanced under
the Loan. A Special Account for US$1 million will be established in the Central



- 4 -
Bank to facilitate payments under the Loan.   Methods of procurement and
disbursements are shown in Schedule B. A Supplementary Loan Data Sheet and the
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uruguay are given in Schedules C and D
respectively.
9.   Detailed Terms of Reference (TOR) for all major activities and general TORs
for all othor activities have been agreed during appraisal; theae TORs are
available in the project file. Issues dealing with onvironmental aspects have
been included in the terms of reference addressing the design of policies and
regulations for esah sector. Labor redimensioning schemes for PLUMA and ANP are
included in the respective TORs for reform/privatization of those PEs.
Procurement of goods and selection of consultants will follow Bank guidelines.
Separate accounts will be kept for all expenditures made under the project. The
accounts and statements of expenditures will be audited each year by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
10. Proiect Sustainabilitv. The project design supports the Government's PR
reform program. The likelihood of success has been enhanced by the President's
personal success in winning bipartisan support for Congressional approval of the
:  ana Port reform la*w.. There io nonetheless the possibility that the Public
Enterprise  ~t or its provisions regarding the privatization of ANITEL may be
repoaled through a public referendum. An initial attempt to require such a
referendum was unsuccessful. A second and final opportunity has been granted for
October 1, 1992, which if successful, would lead to a referendum within 90 to
120 days of such date. The referendum would effectively determine whether parts
or all of the Public Enterprise Law would be repealed. The authorities consider
that, at most, the referendum would concern only the privatization of ANTEL, and
that there is little possibility of any referendum eventuating. Therefore, with
the provision of appropriate safeguards in the unlikely event that the law is
overturned (ref. para. 12), we propose to proceed in order to promptly strengthen
the Government's capacity to undertake reforms.  The proposed technical and
financial assistance vould build the required supporting policy framework, and
help ensure effective management of the reform/privatization process.   The
preparations for the sale of AUNTL and PLUNA have effectively begun.  The
Government has appointed a Port Reform Advisory Comnission which is implementing
the Port Reform Law.
11. Lessons From Previous Bank Involvement. Desigr. of the project incorporates
the following lessons (see Annex 6)s (a) the need to ensure an appropriate policy
framework and a thorough implementation and supervision process; (b) focus on
specific enterprises under committed management instead of an across-the-board
strategy; and (c) the need to have well defined components, in order to avoid
major departures from project design.
12. Issues and Actions . During negotiations, agreements were reached with the
Government on time-bound performance criteria for implementing each activity,
(ref., Attachment 1, Annex 1); and that -he project will be carried out
substantially in accordance with main compmaents of the timetable (Annex 1,
section D).  Failure to implement appropriately project components due to
suspension, abrogation, or amendments of the PR, Port Laws, etc., may result in
the Bank's exercising its right (under the Loan Agreement) to suspend the
pertinent loan funds, and thus exclude from the project the affected components.



The project coordinating unit established in OPP has been appropriately staffed
to carry-on the reform; it was agreed during negotiations that OPP will onsult
periodically with the Bank on the staffing of such unit. It was also agreed that
the Port Reform Advisory Coumission should function in a mamer satisfactory to
the Bank. As a condition for effectivmese, a system will be establisbed in OPP
to ensure that ths project coordinating unit is kept fully informed. Normal
reporting requirements (semiannual reports) including a mid-term review, and
annual audits of Project accounts are also covenanted. The draft Loan Agreement
provides as well for consultation with the Bank on the result of studies to be
carried out under the project.
13. Benefits. The project is expected to contribute to economic growth through
enhancing productivity gains that would enhance Uruguay's competitiveness in the
production of goods and services.  Specifically, the project would increase
private participation ao as to: (a) improve and modernize teleco=unuications
under a new policy framevork; (b) improve air transport services and eliminate
the fiscal pressure of PLURA's loesse; (c) reduce deterrents to international
trade by improving port services; and (d) continue improvements in performance
and ensure financing of capacity expansions in the power sector.
14. Rasks. Apart from the possible referendum discussed in para. 10, the major
risks and the preventive measures that will be taken are: (a)  chanaes in
gubDroiect desian andtor delays in imnlementation - this risk will be reduced
through Government's continued actions to build consensus among political parties
and their constituents; in some cases if unsurmountable problems arise, a
subproject may have to be excluded; (b) risks of a technical nature -
international expertise and in-house assistance provided by the project would
min4imse these risks; (c) administrative deficienciea in execution - close
supervision concerning progress achieved and subproject costs would ensure
successful implementation; and (d) modest interest by votential inve tors due to
limited and uncertain markets - the design and implemeatation of each project
component, including international promotion, would address this issue to
maximize possibilities of success.
15.  Recomendatio    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attacbments
August 11, 1992
Washington, D.C.



-6-
8CEDULB A
Page 1 of 3
_  PIICING US$'000 
PROJBCT COkPONES                    Japanese  covernm    Total
Grants      ant
1. 8trengthen Privatization       663                  600      1,263
Unit
2. Promotion TrIps and            605                   45        650
seminars
8UBTOTAL                        1,266          0       645      1,913
A.T.0U1UUG1W                   ____   ____               ,      ___,
1. Diagnosis and Strategic        700  |               100        800
Plan__                                _     _     __             _
2. Design of Regulatory           345        655    1,000       2,000
Framework                ___            I_     .          _
B. AVYIhON
1. Development of NeW             500                  200        700
Aviation Policies
C. POaTM
1. U plentation of New            900  |          J   400       1,300
Rerulatory Framework
D. PO___
1. Developmaet of                 100        300       110        510
Beapitosy Yrsmewosk         _
2. Batablisbmat of                100                  100        200
Begulatory Comission 
SUBTOTAL                        2,645        955     1,910      5,510
1. Privatization of AN=         1,600        905       300      2,805
B. AV=011
1. lnaneal Analysls of    j    114                      ,0        184
2. Privatationl of PLl A        1,023                  160      1,183



-7-
SVMUDUI A
fROJRCT COCPOURRT           Book    Japanese  GoveruM    T?tal
0. PamTS                                                       2_of_3
1. AdiitaieReform of            1,300                  000       2,100
Port Related Mgend.l___s_
2. Organiaation of Port           700                   S00      1,200
Serve   nd Operatios                  - -     -
S. Other Assistavce and           4                       0        650
Training ~   ~       ~       Gas -   -    -
¢. Pam 
1. Privatizatlon of        1      400                  2 200       600
Sorected UT4 Powerf
SUBTOTAL                        5,537 j       905    2,280       8,722
1. Reform of Ag Pictltural        600        506       344       1,450
Extension aAd Othror
Sertvices
2. Diagnostic of A4C0P's          350                   200        550
Cement aind Alcohol
Plants
3. Otber                          600                   255        855
==~a-
SUBTOTAL                         1,550        506       799      285
TOTML                           11,000      2S30      5,634     19,000



-8-                                  SCOBRDJLU A
PaR0 3 of 3
URU_U_T - P,RL
BAN                             1,000                    10,000                 11,000
JAPARESL GRANT                    200                    2,166                   2,366
__VZR    T _ _5,634                                          --                  5,634
TOTAL                           6,834                    12,166                 19,000



Page l pf 1
S~~~~~~~~VIA - PL
___ i- - -- ~~~~~~.                                 ,...  w_...
Inim   TL                                                  TOTAL  o
1.    Consultant Service. and      13,336A           -_              13,336
TrainnLg                    (10,970)                          (10,970)
2.    Aqisent and                    30k                               30
Eaterial                      9(30)                             (30)
3,    Local Inputs                     -6_ ,3451                     5,634
TOTAL                               13,366          5,634            19,000
(11,000)                         (11,000)
Notes    me     parethesis are the reIpectiVe mounts fin aced by the Bank.
-     Coftinaced uader the Japanes  Grant Facility.   Administered by the Bank; procured in
acordance with the World Bank Guidellne.: Use of Consultants by World lank Borrowero aad by
the World Bank as Executig Agency (August 1981).
h/    Local or Iaternational shopping under the Bank May 1992 Guidelines.
si    The Governmont's contribution of approximtely US$5.6 millon consists largely of counterpart
staff, local consultants, computer and their maintenance, secretarial services and supplles.
i                                     _ ' 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
1. *  Consultants Services and                     9,470             100S net of taxes
2.    Equipment and Naterials                         30             1001 foreign expen-
dituras atd 85X local
.,___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __ __   __nditures
3.    Refunding of PPP                             1,500
TOTAL                        ,                      ,  ,,,           ._11,000  ,   .....
1193               1194               M15                  1S96
AIUAL_                   4,000               3,000               2,500               1,500
CUUL&VTI V               4,000               7,000               9,500              11*000



- 10 -
eson* c
'             UR~~vUCUo - PRRL
(a)     Time tWi0  to IpreotQtERta"n
Ibt  W eprd by:                                  CvrmndtbaRnk assistanCe
(ct     First Zsaik misojoks                         October 1990
(dt     Wpralsal lisoto  dbprturet                   LWy 1992      
(a)     Noeotlatlonalt                               July 1992      _____
(f)     Board preoentatlovt                          September 1992
( 8)    Plansed date of effectivweaess               October 1992
(b)     Llst of s.elevnat PCRs and PPABess           Not a!plicable



- 11 -
SCHEDULE D
Pea. 1 of 1
URUGUAY
LOAN    FISCAL |         BOtROWER                       PURPOSE              AMOUNT LESS    UNDISBURSED
NO.    YEAR                                                                 CANCELLATIONS
Fuly disbursed bum  (14)                                                          372.1
2622    1987    Adrnn. Ntckwn de Usina        PoWe Sector Rehab.                   45.2           41.83
2802    1987    AMm. Nao. Corubus. Alaoho     Refinery Modwnban                    24.4            18.34
2921    1988    Pep. Orient del Uugway        Watw Supply Rehab.                   22.3            14.68
3021    1989    Rep. Odentd del Uuguay        Tasport I                            80.8            68.36
3081    1980    Rep. Oriental d Uuguay        2nd Stuctura Adjust.                140.0            50.19
3082    1989    Rep. Orintal del Uruguay      2nd Technical Assist.                 6.5             4.02
3131    1990    Rep. Odit del Uruuay          2nd Agrdcultral ev.                  86.0           35.76
3221    1990    Admin. Naclbn de Usna         Power ModemIzation                   62.5            30.61
3323    1991    Rep. Odntal del Uruguay       Debt & Debt Serv. Reduct.            65.0           86.004
TOTAL                              mm
of whkh has been repaid            206.1
Total now outstandIng              677.7
Anmunt Sold         0.1
of which has boon repaid             0.1
Tota now held by Bank              677.8
Total Undlsbused                                   327.38
^FU amount dIbed on Jul 27. 1092.



- 12-
Page I of 14
T6CMIIICA AM
A. BACKGROUND
Overview of Public Enterprises.
1.1 Uruguay has a long tradition of extensive Government intervention in the
economy. Generally this has taken the form of laws and regulations affecting
productive and commercial activities, with limited direct state ownership and
management of these activities eompared to many other countries.   Uruguay
possesses only seven Pis and a few financial institutions, including Banco de la
Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay (BHU), and
Banco de Seguros del Estedo. The state also administers a small gas distribution
company (Compafia del Gas), acquired as a consequence of the financial failure
of the private owners. The non-financial PEs operate in the following sectors:
(a) transnort--airline (PLUNA), port system (ANP), and railways (AFE); (b)
enerZX--the power company (UTE) and the petroleum, alcohol, and cement company
(ANCAP); (c) telecommunications--the telephone and telegraph company (ANTEL); and
(d) the water and sewerage company (OSE) (ref. Table 1).
1.2   The Government of Uruguay decided to increase the state's role in
infrastructure and services to promote economic development in the early 19008.
The result was the evolution of several large PEs. In 1909, the Port Authority
(iANP) was created to develop and operate the Port of Montevideo. In 1912 the
national power company (UTE) was set up to promote industrial development through
cheaper substitutes for imported petroleum products. UTE's activities were
expanded in 1931 to include telecommunications.   Under import substitution
policies, a holding company (ANCAP) was established in 1931 for the national
administration of combustibles, alcohol, and Portland cement. Its establishment
was coincident with the promulgation of regulations that still govern the
caparticipation of political parties in the boards of PEs.  The Government
nationalized British companies in 1948 in exchange for large financial deposits
in London that could not be repatriated after the Second World War, thus creating
the national railways (APE) and the water and sewerage company (OSE). In 1952,
in the aftermath of the bankruptcy of the mixed state-private airline, the
Government assumed the private sector share, establishing the national airline
(PLUH). Although the Government followed a protectionist course until 1973,
there were no additional Pgs established. Subsequently, the only major change
has been the separation of telecommunications from power operations under UTE in
1974, ihich led to the creation of the national telecommunication company
(ANTEL). In 1985, the first post-military administration initiated a series of
measures to improve public sector efficiency, in which the Bank was partly
involved, eliminating railway passenger services, implementing performance
contracts for key PUs, and providing for automatic monthly clearance for payments
of arrears among PUs.
Characteristics of PRs.
2.1  Orgnzatio       PEs  in Uruguay are supervised by Boards of Directors
appointed by the Executive branch following approval by Congress. The Chairman
of the Board is also the Chief Executive Officer and usually represents the



- 13 -
page
ruling party.   In practice, the Chairman holds most of the decisionmaking
authority, with the general manager mainly deciding administrative matters. The
political nature of the Board of Directors impairs its coemercial orientation,
while the rules and regulations to which Prs are subject--immobility of staff and
procurement Testrictions--reduce flexibility in decisionmaking and lead to
operational inefficiencies. There are minor differences in legal classifications
among Pgs, which according to the Constitution can be either autonomous entities
or decentralized services.   However,  independent of their legal status,
significant differences between P8s originate in the Constitution or sector laws
concerning their monopoly status, the possibility of providing concessions, or
the possibility of associating with private capital, among others.
2.2 Cgnrol. The following ministries control the respective PEs: (a) Ministry
of Defense--ANTELI (b) Ministry of Transport and Public Works--PLUNA, ANP, 088,
and APE; and (c) Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines--UT! and ANCAP. PEs are
also subject to strong controls from other government bodies. The Office of
Planning and Budgeting (OPP) approves annual budgets for operating and investment
expenditures and those prices/tariffs considered to have a major social impact.
The State Auditor (Tribunal de Cuentas) is responsible for ensuring that PEs
comply with budget and procurement laws. The Ministry of Economy authorizes
investment programs relative to external indebtedness implications. The Office
of Civil Service governs their personnel policies.
2.3 Bmplosment. The public sector is an important source of employment in
Uruguay, accounting for 222 of total employment at end-1988. Total public sector
employment increased from 213,000 employees in 1969 to 264,000 employees in 1990.
However, this increase occurred at the central government level, while PR
employment decreased from 55,000 to 42,000 employees during that period (fig.
2.1). The decrease in PR employment was the result of the elimination of APE's
passenger service (1988), and the reorganizations of ANP and ANCAP, the latter
of which  included franchising its retail services.   However,  since the
Constitution does not allow the firing of civil servants (including PR
personnel), most of these reductions resulted in reassignments within the Central
Government and (to a lesser extent) to other P8s. An additional 10% reduction
in PU employment occurred during early 1991 following a voluntary retirement
program enacted by the Government for all public sector employees.
2.4 1P Financial Imnact. In 1991, the revenues of non-financial PBs were US$1.7
billion, with tax payments at US$319 million and government transfers US$28.7
million. These data obscure significant differences among the Pgs. ANCAP
provided the government US$285.1 million in taxes (mainly from petroleum
products), representing 112 of government revenues. Government transfers to AUE
were US$21.6 million (2372 of APE's revenues) and to PLUNA US$7.1 million (132
of PLURA's revenues). The Treasury serviced the external debt of UTZ and PLUNA
without contributions from these PUs. The PUs represent a relatively low share
of public sector external debt: in 1980, US$377 million, which increased to
US$732 million by 1990, or 161 of total external indebtedness. UTZ's debt alone
accounted for 802 of total PR external debt.  By contrast, PR investments
decllned after the crisis of 1982 from an annual average of US$220 million in
1980-82 to an annual average of US$125 million in 1983-90 (fig. 2.2). During the
latter period, most PE Investment took place in ANTEL (382) and UTZ (411).



- 14 -
Page 3 o 14
2.5  Telecommunicaions Servlices (ANTEL). The telecommunications sector ha4 been
the most dynamic in Uruguay's economy, reaching growth rates of 7.5S a yeas.
However, ANTEL's monopoly, which is not commercially oriented and operates under
a poorly defined regulatory system, has the following technical and managerial
shortcomings: (a) unmet demand is estimated at over 100,000 backlogged lines and
excessive installation delays (3 years or more); (b) poor service quality, with
trouble rates four to five times above world standards; (c) antiquated
technology, with a high number of manual switches and few enhanced services; (d)
lack of specialized business-customer attention; and (e) high international
tariffs (about 501 higher than the main countries communicating with Uruguay).
2.6  The National Airlines (PLUNk).  PLUNk transports approximately 320,000
passengers a year, with an annual gross income of about US$70 million. PLUNA
operates its regional flights with three Boeing 737s covering multiple daily
flights to Buenos Aires (the "air bridge" it shares with Aerolineas Argentina.).
Daily flights also go to Brazil, seasonal flights from Buenos Aires to Punta del
Sote, and occasional flights to Asuncion and Santiago; it is temporarily
operating its Madrid flights with a leased Boeing 707. Domestic flights are in
the hands of small private companies and of TAMU, which is operated by the air
force. In the cargo market, PLUNk competes with private Uruguayan air transport
companies such as Aerolineas Uruguayas, Aero Sur, and Aero Uruguay. Because of
an inappropriate route network and inadequate fleet planning, as well as poor
management, PLUNA's operations are unprofitable, requiring government transfers
of about US$7 million a year, and face difficult prospects in view of increased
worldwide competition. Its long-term debt of about US$38 million was partly
consolidated in 1991 with Government aid. PLUNA's poor performance also stems
from political interference in routine decisionmaking, lack of incentives for
managers to improve performance, and no clear marketing strategy.
2.7 The Port System. ANP is responsible for administering and operating all
commercial ports in Uruguay. Montevideo, the country's best deep water port, is
by far the most important, handling 70S of total export and import traffic by
volume. In spite of its strong natural advantages, productivity at the Port of
Montevideo is nearly the lowest in the region, with cargo performance (net time
ships load and unload) 602 that of other ports, overall hourly productivity about
62S that of developing countries, and idle time of ships alongside berths 601
versus 301 for the world average. A major reason for the port's unsatisfactory
performance is the stevedoring: a politically strong union (National Stevedoring
Services Administration) (ANSE) is the sole provider of stevedoring services on
board ships, while on-shore cargo handling services are provided by AQP's
workers. ANSI negotiates working conditions and salaries with the Ministry of
Labor without the participation of ANP or ship agents, resulting in marked
differences vith those of ANP's workers, making coordination difficult, and
Impeding productivity.   To avoid delays and obtain the required services,
shipping agents and other port users must frequently resort to extra payments.
Other operational deficiencies arise from inappropriate port operational planning
and unsuitable cargo-handling methods, coupled with physical constraints
(difficult access to the container terminal, inner traffic problems, obsolete
sheds, narrow quay aprons, and poor equipment maintenance). A Bank study on
trade expansion prospects for Uruguay found that most significant barriers to
international price discipline are due to administrative import deterrents and



- 15 -
Page
exorbitant landing costs resulting from inefficient port operational systems and
facilities. The Bsank's Trausport Sector Project (3021-UR) provides assistance
to overcome some aspects of these problems, which the proposed project would
supplement.
2.8 Water anW Sewerage Services (OS!). OSE plan., constructs, and operates all
urban and rural water supply and sewer systems in Uruguay (except for the
Montevideo sewerage system controlled by the Municipality), and is in practice
the major policymaker for the sector, which is officially the responsibility of
the Ministry of Transport and Public Works. In 1986, 83 percent of the urban and
27 percent of the rural population had domestic water connectionsa the rest of
the population had access to alternative systems. At present, coverage and
service quality are sufficient, but the infrastructure is deteriorating due to
insufficient maintenance, and water losses and unbilled water are high and still
growing (average of 20 percent of supply in 1952 to 40 percent in 1987). These
are being remedied with the help of the Water Supply Rehabilitation loan (2921-
UR). These problems, however, also reflect OS!'s non-commercial orientations
according to company statutes, all profits must be distributed to the workers;
staff selection is done by a Work Allocation Commission; promotions are based on
seniority, with layoffs, as in other PEs, practically impossible.
2.9  The National Railways (APE).   In 1988, APE had an 8X share of domestic
freight transportation (ton/km) and a 52 share of non-urban passenger traffic
(passengerlkm).   APE's services underwent a drastic transformation at the
beginning of that year when the Government implemented a far-reaching
restructuring program aimed at reducing subsidies (an average US$20 million per
year for current expenditures) and improving freight services with commercial
potential. The program accomplished the followingt (a) restructuring of APE as
a commercially oriented enterprise, including the development of a contract plan
and an incentive system for personnels (b) eliminating all passenger services
(330 million passenger/kilometers per year); (c) reduction of personnel from
9,109 employees to 4,226; (d) privatization of ancillary services such as parcel
services, medical services for railway employees, and the main station
restaurant; and (e) deregulation of freight railway tariffs.   Government
subsidies for current expenditures are being significantly reduced over a period
of time necessary to disengage effectively personnel transferred to other
entities: in 1991 these subsidies decreased to US$17 million, and by 1994 a
further decrease to US$7.1 million is expected. However, subsidies for AFE's
investments will be maintained at US$4-5 million.
2.10 The Zlectric Power Comnan3 (UTE!. UTZ was established in 1912 as the sole
entity responsible for power generation, transmission, and retail distribution
of electricity in the country, as well as for telecommunications services. As
of 1991, total installed capacity in Uruguay amounted to 1,708 MW, of which 1,196
MW (70 percent) was hydro, and 512 MW (30 percent) conventional thermal plants.
Installatioms owned by private industry to meet its own needs are estimated at
40MN. Power supply has been increasing during the last decade with the startup
of two large hydroprojectes Salto Grande (1,890 MW, binational with Argentina)
and El Palmar (now named Constitucift, 330MW). The installation of two gas
turbines (115 MW each) at the end of 1991, reduced the risk of unmet demand in
the event of droughts, from over 30 percent of demand to about 92. In the 1980.,



- 16 -
AN 1
PagS eof 14
to lessen reliance on imported oil products, UT! embarked on a program to develop
hydroprojects by undertaking significant borrowing, vith subsequent investments
reaching 4.7 percent of GDP; however, by th, end of the decade, its hith
indebtedness precipitated a decline in investment levels to only 3.1 percent of
GDP. The volume of debt and its disproportionate short-term maturity structure,
coupled with a severe drought which led to substantial increases in fuel oil
purchases, also drove UTE into financial arrears with the Central Bank in 1989,
which was finally repaid out of an energy fund financed from taxes on gasoline
and electricity.   Additional increases in power supply could arise from
improvements in efficiency. Currently, the total electricity loss level of UTE
power is high (21 percent) due both to old installations and inadequate
commercial and customer-related procedures. Losses are expected to be reduced
to 152 by 1996 as a result of an Institutional Development Program to improve
information as well as billing and collection systems with a Spanish power
utility, and other segments of a Bank-supported program to improve UTE's
managerial capabilities (Loans 2622 and 3221-UR).
2.11 The Alcohol. Cement. and Petroleum State Entitv (ANCAP).  ANCAP has the
monopoly for importing, exporting, refining, and selling crude oil and its
products. It is also responsible for producing and selling alcoholic beverages
and industrial alcohols, Portland cement, and refined sugar. Its most important
activity is oil refining (over 90 percent of the company's turnover). ANCAP
collects about 20 percent of indirect taxes for the Government through highly
taxed gasoline and other petroleum products. Its second most important activity
is cement production, where it enjoys a monopoly on public sector sales and an
overall market share of about 50 percent.   Some important problems in the
petroleum sector are: (a) ANEAP serves as both producer and de facto regulator;
(b) differential taxation among petroleum products creates market inefficiencies;
and (c) ANCAP has no incentives to improve efficiency since any profits are
immediately recovered by the Government. The position of ANCAP is expected to
change in the wake of Argentina''s recent petroleum and gas liberalization;
moreover, in 1995 the establishment of NERCOSUR is expected to hasten the
elimination of monopolies in the region.
B. REFORM PROGRAM
3.1 Stratety. The Lacalle Government decided to broaden the reform of the PE
sector initiated by its predecessor, the objective of which was to create a more
competitive enviroment in Uruguay, reducing the role of inefficient PEs, and
providing broader opportunities for private enterprises to invest and operate in
activities previously unavailable to them. The Government's strategy is to: (a)
establish appropriate sector policies and regulations, independent of parastatal
control, to foster the development of competitive and efficient operations; (b)
reduce the role of the public sector in productive activities through
privatization of PEs and elimination of state monopolies; and (c) create and
promote private participation in all sectors of the economy. Its initial phase,
to be supported under the proposed project, aims at creating appropriate sector
regulations in telecommunications, air transport, port operations, and
electricity, as well as securing private participation in these sectors. To
achieve these objectives, the Government obtained congressional approval



- 17-
Page 6 of 14
(September 1991) of a law that allows: (a) sale of real estate assets as well as
contracting out and licensing of services for all PEfu (b) participation of
private capital in the state airline (PLUM) and the telecommunications company
(ANTSL) and (c) private participation in future power system expansion within
the UTE network (UTE's statutes already permitted the sale of existing power
generation plsnts). With regard tc the port sector, the Government obtained
congressional approval of a new Port Law (April 1992), that allows private sector
participation in the provision of port services and deregulates stevedoring
services.
3 .2 I nstitutional Setu.  The Government has created an Executive Committee
(EC), which reports to the Director of OPP, with the mandate to provide the
guidelines for, and proceed with implementation of the PE law.   The EC
participates in working groups for each PE/sector, which include PE
representatives and ministry officers, that are to develop detailed
reform/privatization plans for the EC's final approval.
3.3 Estafblishment of New ReWulatory Frameworks. At present, Pgs are dominant
in sectors that are either natural monopolies or possess a hi8h degree of market
concentration. Policy-making and the determination of regulations for these
sectors have been shared by Pgs and the respective sectoral ministries, with the
former not clearly distinguishing between their roles as producers versus their
participation in policy setting.   As part of its PS reform program, the
Government has decided to separate these functions, establishing appropriate
regulatory frameworks, leading to independent policy-making and to the provision
of goods and services under efficient conditions (see description below under
each sector). In addition, this should serve to facilitate the entry of private
sector participants.
3.4 TelecommunicatiMns. The objectives of telecommunications reform are to
allow for the modernization of the sector to emphasize Uruguay's role as a
regional financial center, to improve quality of services, and to expand rapidly
the availability of telephone services in a cost-effective manmer. As detailed
in Annex 2, these objectives encompass developing Montevideo as the international
telecommunications gateway for the "Southern Cone" states, introducing greater
competition in services (with full competition by year 2000) and expanding
telephone penetration internally. To achieve these objectives, the Government
strategy is tot (a) create a new telecommunications company for domestic and
international telephone services, with ANTEL contributing a minimum 40 percent
of the shares, private investors 52 percent of the shares--of which at least 3
percent must be national--and ANTEL's workers with up to 8 percent of the shares;
(b) open value-added services to competition; and (c) establish an appropriate
regulatory framework and a regulatory authority to (i) ensure the new telephone
company meets its service obligations, (ii) approve tariffs for the new entity,
and (iii) ensure equal access to all operators in those areas open to
competition.
3.5 A4ljjjns. The objectives of the privatization of PLUNk are to stimulate
private investment and competition, and to increase the efficiency of airline
services in Uruguay (see Annex 31. A Presidential Decree issued on December 31,
1991, established that a new company will be created of which PLUNA will hold



- 18 -
Page 7 of 14
shares of 49 percent (including employee shares of up to 8X) and private capital
of 51 percent. The private consortium should include Uruguayan investors to
ensure majority participation of local capital (including the State's share).
The private investors will be responsible for company management, while PLUNA's
directors must approve company borrowing, sale of assets, and capital increases.
To attract private interest In the creation of the new company, it will be given
first option during the first 10 years for new authorizations or concessions for
air transport rights to which Uruguay is entitled. Simultaneously, an in-depth
review of Uruguay's Air Transport Code is being considered by the Government,
which will be carried on under the proposed project in conjunction with the
planned sale of PLUNA, and the establishment of the regulatory agency.  The
objectives of the new regulatory framework will be to eliminate PLURAL's special
advantages over time and stimulate private investment and competition through a
clear definition of air transport policy and the role of the regulatory agency,
simplification of procedures for the creation of new airlines, and design and
implementation of a transparent and flexible procedure for route designation.
3.6 Port System. The objective of the new Port Law is to provide more efficient
port services at competitive costs so as to reduce trade barriers. The plan for
the Port of Montevideo is to: (a) assign port authority and administration
functions to ANP; (b) assign direction, coordination, monitoring and supervision
of port operations and related activities to the Montevideo Port Captaincy
established under the Law; (c) transfer port services to private companies, under
free entry conditions, allowing them to employ their own equipment and workers;
(d) deregulate the restrictive stevedoring agency and uuify on-board and on-shore
cargo handling labor, leaving their organization and control to private
employers; (e) allow unrestricted transit of cargo within the port of Montevideo,
without customs interference; and (f) divest/privatize ANP's unessential/
unprofitable businesses. Similar arrangements will be made at other ports, which
will be under the direct jurisdiction of MTOP (see Annex 4).
3.7 The Electric Power Sector. The Government's objective is to promote private
investments in new power generation plants, with the Government increasingly
playing a subsidiary role, while strengthening regulatory functions. It intends
to privatize UTIE's Constituci6n generation plant, and to allow the private sector
to connect to UTIE's transmission and distribution lines. The Government intends
to: (a) prepare and forward to Congress a new electricity law that removes from
UTE all responsibility for policy formulation, energy planning, and regulatory
functions; and (b) define a concession regime for the private sector, with
service responsibilities and rules for the calculation of electricity generation
and distribution rates and their adjustments. Given the Government's support to
the ongoing institutional improvement program being implemented by UTI, and its
expectations that it would produce substantial benefits, it does not plan to
carry out a comprehensive privatization program in tie near future (see Annex 5).
3.8  Other Reforms.  The Government intends to carry out a series of other
reforms and minor privatizations to complement its program. A modernization unit
which was established in the Ministry of Agriculture (MGAP) has prepared a
diagnosis of MGAP and an action plan for its redimensioning/streamlining
including divestiture of extension services and restructuring of its main,
essential functions.   A series of small-scale privatizations announced in



19 -
Page
February 1992 (local airports, hospital services, oil tankers, and the National
Stationery Rouse, etc.) are also on the Government's agenda. The Government also
plans to prepare studies leading to the reform of other sectors, among which will
be alcohol production and cement.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION0
(a) General PE Framework
4.1  StrenItheninu the State Reform Executive Committee. The Executive Committee
would constitute the project coordinating unit with the help of technical and
administrative staff to facilitate the design, administration, and implementation
of the PE reform process. The Executive Committee has two distinct roles: (i)
to participate in the design and implementation of the reform activities at the
institutional and enterprise level; and (ii) to manage the financing and
participate in the contracting of consultants and implementation of projects
under the program. As part of these functions, the Executive Co=nittee would
oversee processing and expediting of the Project. For these purposes, the loan
would finance a team for about 135 staff-months over 3.5 years, extending its
initial activities under a Project Preparation Facility (PPP). Total cost would
be US$663,000. The technical staff would be hired according to detailed terms
of reference with clearly defined outputs and timetable.
4.2 &arketin   Camnaians  and  Seminars.    For  successful  privatization/
restructuring of Pfs, the Government needs to: (i) develop marketing campaigns
that will disseminate its privatization progrsm through major financial centers;
and (ii) obtain first-hand knowledge from similar privatization experiences in
other countries through visits and attendance at seminars. The project will
provide US$605,000 for these activities.
(b) TelecomiusaniLtions
4.3  Diagnosis and Strategic Plannins for the Telecommunication Sector. A
diagnosis of the telecommunications sector and recommendations for sector
restructuring hsve already been carried out under PPF advances.  The study
covered: (i) an analysis of the sector, including ANTEL's financial, legal,
technical, and organizational aspects; (b) the market demand and pricing
environment; (c) a market valuation of ANTEL; (d) options for sector
restructuring; (e) recommendations for ANTEL's privatization; and (f) a proposal
for a new legal and regulatory framework (US$700,000).
4.4  Design of Reaulations for Telecommunications.   The loan will finance
consultants to assist in drafting regulations and creating and developing the
telecommunications regulatory authority (US$Imillion; including US$655,000 under
the Japanese Grant Facility).
/  Activities under paragraphs 4.3 and 4.7 were financed under the PPF
advances.



- 20 -
Page 9 of 14
4.5  Privatization of ANMEL.  Two types of consultants are required to ensure
the partial privatization of ANTEL.   These ares  Cl)  financial advisors
(investment bank) and other experts to design the s8les plan, promote the sale
among potential buyers, implement the sale, and close the transaction.  The
commitment fee to be paid from the loan will be US$1.3 millionl a success fee
(from which the commitment fee would be deducted) will be paid from proceeds of
the saleg and (ii) legal advisors to assist the Government in drafting tender
documents, contracts, regulations, and provision of legal advice to the
Government in the closing of the transaction (US$1.205 million; of which
US$905,000 will be paid under the Japanese Grant Fund). For better coordination,
the legal advisors will also assist in the establishment of the Regulatory
Authority.
(C) Airlile8
4.6 Polilcy Framework for Aviation. To create an appropriate framework for
PLUNA's privatizations and at the same time the appropriate policies for
stimulating competition, a consulting company will be required to revise the
Aviation Code and simplify procedures for the creation of new companies
(US$500,000).
4.7 Financial Analysis of PLUNA. A financial analysis of PLUNA is needed to
provide the Government with a basis for preparing its privatization. It would
include: (i) preparation of audited finascial statements for the period 1989-91;
(ii) determination of PLUNA's market value and valuation of different routes;
(iii) valuation of fixed assets; and (iv) simulation studies of the company's
market value at different debt levels (US$114,000; under implementation with PPF
financing).
4.8  Privatization of PLUNA.  Two kinds of consultants will be required: (i) a
financial advisor to assist in preparing bidding documents, contacting potential
buyers, implementing the sale, and closing the contract (US$200,000); and (ii)
legal advisors to review, the work undertaken by PLURA's Legal Department to
facilitate privatization (US$823,000; of which US$447,450 is already being
financed under the PPF, with the remainder under retroactive financing from the
proposed loan).
(d) Ports
4.9 Implementstion of New Regulatorv Framework. Consultants will be hired to
assist the Port Reform Advisory Commission to: (i) prepare the regulatory
framework for the whole port system; (ii) define technical and economic
requirements for private enterprises interested in obtaining concessions,
permits, authorizations and contracts to provide port services; (iii) analyze the
viability of transferring ANP's ship repair and port equipment repair and
maintenance facilities to the private sector; (iv) analyze options to administer,
operate, and maintain the Uruguayan dredging fleet; (v) prepare technical and
administrative guidelines for port administration and captaincies, in accordance
with the new port model; and (vi) monitor all other technical assistance
components (US$900,000).



-21-
Page 10 of 14
4.10 Administratlve Reform. Mnasgemont consult4nts will be hired to design and
lmplement the administrative structure and functional organization of ANP, MTOP's
Port Directorate, Moutevideo Port Captaincy, and ANSE in accordance with the
requirements of the Port Law and the new port model (US$1.3 million).
4.11 ReorU&nization of Port Services and Qperations. Port operations consultants
will be hired tot (i) review and optimize cargo-handling methods to be used by
private operators and ARPI/TOP; and (ii) develop operational and monitoring norm
and procedures to conduct, coordinate and supervise port operations and port-
related activities (US$700,000).
4.12 Other Assistance.   It will includes (i) funding for specific advisory
services that may be required for divestiture of ANP's non-commercial port
activities (US$200,000); and (ii) financing of seminars and practical training
for staff of the new port captaincies to improve their skills to direct,
coordinate, and supervise port operations and related activities (US$200,000).
(e) Poway
4.13 Develooment of Resulatorv Pramework for the Power Subsector. Assistance
would be required tot (i) draft regulations, develop functions and organization
of the regulatory entity, and draft a new electricity law taking into account
future private participation in power generation, transmission, and distribution;
and (ii) define the merhodology and propose an action plan to set electricity
rates based on marginal cost criteria (US$400,000; including US$300,000 under the
Japanese Grant Facility).
4.14 etablishment of a Reaulatorv Commission.   The establishment of the
Regulatory Commission requires mainly the implementation of a training program
which would include: (i) training of government officials that would be assigned
regulatory responsibilities; (ii) seminars on power sector regulation and reform
of the power sector; (iii) training for UTE's management and high-level staff
about implications of new law and regulations; and (iv) training equipment and
materials. Total estimated cost, including seminars and training equipment and
materials, is US$100,000.
4.15 Priv&tization of UTE'. Constitucion and Other Selected Puwer Generation
Plants. Assistance will be provided for the preparation of a detailed plan for
privatizing/franchising Mi's Constituci6n and other selected power generation
plants including: (i) organizational, operational, and financial structure; (ii)
procedures for implementation; and (iii) assistance in implementing the
privatization plan (US$400,000).
(f) Other Assistanem
4.16  Dvestiture /Modernization of MGAP's Services. This component will provide
support for privatization and reorganization activities within MGAP, including
the financing of : (i) a modernization unit to carry-out the reform; (ii) studies
to determine options for MWAP's services concerning their privatization,
transference to other entities, or closing down, followed by their
implementations and (iii) development of an action plan for reorganization of



- 22 -
Page 11 of 14
MGAP after its redimensioning, which could be implemented under a future Public
Sector Reform project, currently under preparation. US$600,000 would be financed
under the loan, in addition to US$506,000 which are being financed under the
Japanese Grant Facility.
4.17 Dianoslic of ANCAP's Cemet and Alcohol Plants. Financing will be provided
to prepare diagnostics for ANCAP's cement and alcohol plants, leading to their
sale to the private sector and assist in implementing the recommendations. The
diagnostics will cover competitiveness of the plants, financial analysis, asset
valuation and options for privatization (US$350,000).
4.18 Peritheral Privatizations. This component will be for assistance to the
Government in small scale prlvatizations such as local airports, some hospital
services, and the Government's Stationery House among others (US$600,000).
D. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.1  Prolect Organization and Imnlementatgon.   The Borrower will be the
Government with OPP as the Executing Agency. The Director of OPP would be in
charge of the administration of the project.   He will be assisted by the
Executive Committee (described in paras. 3.2 and 4.1), which will enact and
implement the measures required to reform/privatize the PEs. OPP also will be
in charge of implementating specific project components in coordination with: (a)
the sectoral Ministries for the development of sector policies and regulations
(i.e., Ministry of Transport and Public Works, Ministry of Industry, Energy and
Mines, and Ministry of Defense); and (b) the PR. for implementation of the
restructuring/privatization programs.
5.2 Actiog Atrmad. During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to consult with
the Bank on the staffing of the Project Coordinating Unit.  It also agreed that
the Port Reform Advisory Commission should function in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.   As a condition of effectiveness, an information system will be
established in OPP to ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is fully informed
on the status of each activity being implemented under the Project. Agreement
was reached with the Government on performance criteria with a detailed timetable
for implementing each activity, according to Attachment 1 to this annex, which
will be used by OPP to produce semiannual reports on progress in Project
implementation. The Project will be carried out substantially in accordance with
the following implementation program for main activities: (a) bidding documents
issued for the sale of ANTEL by end-December 1992 with contract awarded by mid-
1993; (b) bidding documents issued for the sale of PLUNA by end-December 1992;
(c) draft of new aviation regulations prepared by mid-1993; (d) new port
regulations prepared by end-1993, proposal for new port structure including
options for non-core services presented by third quarter 1993, and overall design
for the port system (ANP, MIOP and Port Captaincy) prepared by first quarter
1994; (e) draft of new regulatory system for the power sector presented by mid-
1993; (f) plan for privatizing selected UTE power generation plants prepared by
mid-1994; and (g) diagnostic for ANCAP's cement and alcohol plants prepared by
third quarter 1994. In addition, should the Public Enterprise or Port Laws be
smended, repealed, etc., in a manner which would preclude fulfillment of project



- 23 -
rage 12 a 1
objectives, it was agreed that the Bank could limit the Government's access to
loan  proceeds  pertinent  to  the  components  involved.    Normal  reporting
requirements including a mid-term review (June 1994) will be included as loan
covenants, along with provisions for consultation with the Bank on the results
of studies to be carried out.
5.3  Procuremnat. Consultants employed under the Project will be retained using
terms of referer.ce previously agreed by the Bank, selection procedures in
accordance with the August 1981 Bsnk Guidelineos, and under employment conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.  Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the selection
procedures will include the use of short lists of firms with qualifications and
experience found satisfactory to the Bank, and a letter of invitation describing
the selection procedure and the evaluation criteria to be used, which should be
acceptable to the Bank. The procurement of contracts for office equipment and
materials valued at US$30,000 in aggregate, will be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers
under the Bank May 1992 Guidelines.
5.4  Proiect Costs. Financina and Disbursements.   Total project costs are
estimated at US$19 million, of which US$12.2 million (641) represents the foreign
exchange costs. A loan of US$11 million (57.91 of total costs) is proposed. The
loan includes US$9.47 million for consultant services and training related to the
institutional, regulatory, and privatization transaction components and the
project ecooidiating unit, US$30,000 for training equipment and materials, and
US$1.5 million to repay the PPF advances. US$2.4 million of cofinancing are
provided under the Japanese Grant Facility. The Government's contribution is
calculated at US$5.6 million (29.51 of total project costs), consisting of
counterpart staff, local consultants, office space, supplies, secretarial
aervices, and vehicle operation to be provided in the different project
components. Retroactive financing of US$1 million from March 1, 1992 will be
provided to: (a) pay the legal advisors assisting in PLUNA's privatization; and
(b) finance consultants to develop the regulatory frsmeworks for the
telecoimnun=cations and aviation sectors. To facilitate payments under the loan,
a special account will be established in the Central Bank in the amount of US$1
million. The project will be completed by June 30, 1996, with the Closing Date
of the Loan December 31, 1996. Disbursements against contracts valued less than
US$50,000 would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures certified by
OPP. All other expenditures would be fully documented.
5.5  Accounts and Audits.   A separate account will be maintained for all
expenditures under the project. OPP will maintain records and accounts for all
project activities.   The accounts will be audited each year by auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines. The
auditing reports will be submitted to the Beank no lster than 4 months after the
close of its fiscal year.



- 24 -
Page 1 of 14
Table 1
RUGIAY   CHRTERISTIC8 OP PUBLIC ENTERPRISES - 1991
REVENUES 1 TAXES    GOVERNfT  1   CAPITAL           EHPLOYMENT
I  TRANSPERS   I EXPENDITURES
(US$ MILLION)                     (THOUSANDS)
NATIONAL AIRLINES         PL          53.1      0.02        7.1                0.1            0.8
NATIONAL PORTS             AMP        55.9      O.7       _                    0.3            3.4
NATIONAL RAILWAYS          APE         9.1      .          21.6                 1.2           3.8
POamR                      UTZ       403.6      -            -                160.5           10.6
PETROLEUM AND CEMENT     ANCAP       813.2    285.1             _              11.5           5.1
TELECOMMUNICATIONS        ANTEL      291.2     33.9  __       _               76.9            7.6
SANITARY WORKS             OSE        92.9      -      _                      20.1            6.0
_T L .                              1,719.0  1319.72        2 28.7            270.6           37.3
Table 2
URUGUAY PUBLIC ENTERPRISE EHPLOYMENT
_________      (THOUSANDS)      -                1991
1                 ~~~~~PERCENT
1973  |   1985   |  1990         1991    DISTRIBUTION
1.    TRANSPORT                   16.8 ]       14.5       9.7      8.0         21.4
-PLURA                       0.8         0.8   _   0.9       0.8          2.1
-ANP                         7.6         4.7        4.1      3.4          9.1
-APE                         8.4         9.0        4.7      3.8         10.2
2.   ENERGy                       22.4         18.1      17.3      15.7         42.1
-UTZ                        11.0        11.1       11.4     10.6         28.4
-ANCAP                 j    11.4         7.0        5.9      5.1         13.7
3.   TSLECONNMUNCATIONS            6.7         8.2  [    8.1       7.6          20.4
-ANTEL                       6.7         8.2  |    8.1       7.6         20.4
4.    OT                     f     5.4          6.4       6.6      6.0          16.1 -
-0SE                         5.4         6.4        6.6      6.0         16.1
TOTAL                              51.3  f     47.2      41.7      37.3        100.0



- 25 -
Pasg 14 of 14
Figure 1
URUGUAY - Pubtlc Sector Employment
emloyment .000
300.
250                                                       -
200  -1'                       _ ______________                 
150--                                                     -      -
100                                              -        -      -
1985                                  1982    1985    1988 190
years
pEa non financial        Provincial ovts.  E3 Financial Institut.
W   Central covernment 3  Tobta
sources OPP
Figure 2
URUGUAY - Public Sector Investment
USS millions
800
700
600            C_
400
300
200
1982         1984         1986         1988         1990.
Years
central covernment    municipalities   @   PEa mon-Financial
Pinanqtal Institut.  Total Public Sector
sourcet OPP



URUGUAY
PUUC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
MATRIX OF PROJECT ACTIITIE
MAIN OBJECTIVE                    PROJECT COMPONENT ACTIVTIES                         EXPECTW OUPUTMrPACT                       TiMNG TARGETS
_    _   _                                     l                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STARTIcWEnON
1. Strengthen 1ovenwwWs   1. Conadwo for CommIiindIttOdettondoaoitttlI
uAdm1wtratliReetCnptn to        adminar th r PE r    mote.                        (a) Ssoam to desIM admi niterationalefnaia        Febcnrwy 1992 PF.
b downeet the FUbSo  E   Ewpries  E   eestUS$0.60 nilon.                 program                         aneduo.
Refo.. Program.                                                                    lb) Adprtwilo for p the betwon GoDecnter 199.
ard Sank.                                        Comwf wi woc
Effbisent ad  attendan  at onn b      d  of        n        f ttb h
prora  eadkf.                                    dr TORb.
2. Mexri e sco  f               2. I _k"    C     snap  to eatst poteta kvto       2.  20  SW
PI*d                   of PEs.  and seWnina to i-n f     trw exp_ne.               (a) Road sho   Innin mntn rin fwbln              D owrbw 1992.
E        cUwo  WiO.805 nillon.                    oenwer about th PE nrnw  prnW   nd
oppoesn for priat wb im_n.                       Decernbe 1994.
(b) Vif  fd at    ne_ at wJeby
Govemn and PE rpstatves Inolvod In PE
reform.
Iceaed numbe of poteiad pivat Inwstors
nmo effeatw PE re,m        onPrs. 
t . D4noSi N         t1. Analze ANTEL nd t  telecommunications sector    I.
Taleonwtwiosta  Sector          and dlop proo"a for retructu .                     Stud covedng: (a) sector enalys; (b* marot       JNaav 1991 (PPM.
StnatAxe.                       C2: US4.? mllion.                                 vlaion of ANTELJ (a) ption fow 
restdruorn  (d) oommerdadon.e for ANTELCs
priveizatios; end (ci proposal for new reuaoryo   Decanter 1991.
frerwwork.
Prvides soun bads for sector strategy. 
2. Eotablish Effoodw            2. Designof--.--             foode                 22. f_2
R"Mwdone for                    n_-oganizatn of reuay authort and trinino.        Estashmnt of Reguatory Auoriy wi                  Aprl 1992 (fst phase
Telooonwriunirtiones  Seator    Estiated cost US81 million (US80.345 millon under    capabllity to deelop and  bnw     (a) reuatory  under
lon; US0.655 nmillion under Jap s Gran Funds).    polides; (b) pice, cost and finandial ases; (t)   Japnes Grt.
quality of sevc. investm t pmr   mg               Commio a: 
technicl stadards; and Id adminlstrat.. l"e en   June 1993.
iformaton system.                                iT: d9ff
Ensure claw ftdbs and regAadontl to emrsu        Doemb¢ 1995.
oompedtive behavio and co tplnce with serice
obigions of cono_ssnalesllces.



URUGUAY
PUBUC ENERPRISE REFORM LOAN
_____________________                                         MATRIX OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
MAIN OBJ      ES                 PROJECT COMPOENT ACTIVITIES                         EXPECTED OUTPUTIIMPACT                   TIMING TA
3. ParI Sal of ANTEL to        3. Assstan  for Patal Puivatization of ANTEL                                                     3. &VW
Qaliied Opeator os.              ost Osi   oa lm  biddin do _mnt for the ode of ANTEL,                                            ApfO 1992
la) finaia adviors to design sals pan. and pmot    ib) pmote the interest of ponttualified         Cal fo P      on
and Implment te sa.                               invewtors in ANTEL; nd                           ofa
C    retainer fees to ivestment bank US81.3 million  c contract tor sae of ANTEL                   May 1992.
(sum fee to be pidd fromn       proeeds); and                                                     O-,  Do- um
(b) loga advWIsors to asist In drfting tender     Sedl  oprators that would moderize the sector   ld:
documents, contac   nd ldosing of transton.       nd improe ervics.                                Novmbe 1992.
Cg    US$1.205 mIlon (of which USWO.905 million                                                    Aw
under Jpanese Grant.                                                                               First Quarter 1993.
1. Stimulate Competition In thw  1. RevIson of Aviation Code and simplification of  1   V                               -. _ 
Avition Sector.                procedures for creation of new companies.         New aviation regtduaons end procedures.          Fourth Quarter 1992.
Egsimaed cost US80.5 million.                       mDect:                                         Co ba.
Increased competition In air transport In Umuguay.  Second Quarter 1993.
2. Develop Financoi Informaion    2. Assistanco to OPPIPLUNA In: (a) preparation of  2. 9utput.                                  2.1g1S
for Prvatiuon of PLUNA.        PLUNA's udited financia saem nts for 1989191, (b)    Updated financiad information on PLUNA and market    Feruafy 1992 (PiF).
valuation of PLUNA's flxed assets: a  (i) estimaton of  va on.                                            n:
PLUNA's mart vue.                                     :                                           June 1992.
WM"pateq eQgt US$0.114 nillion.                   Provides informstion required to negotiate PLUNA's
sale.
3. Paal Sale of PLUNA.         3. Assitnco for pardal sale of PLUNA consisting of:    3. Oun                                    3. law:
(a financial advso  to asist in prerfr bidding   (a) Issue bidding documents for the sale of PLUNA;  April 1992 WM
documents, and promote and Implmnt the sado.     lb) promote the interest of qualified investrs in  Can for Proauala"on
Jost retainr foes of US$0.200 mIllon; and         PLUNA; and                                     -2afl to!
(b) lea advisors to rewvw bidding documents.     (c) contract for PLUNA's sae.                    July 1992.
contracts and other documents prepared bv PLUNA's  kat                                             BWdin   _ s
Lea Deparbt                                       Select investors for PLUNA to rduce Government's  11:
Cos: US$0.823 mIlion.                             direct invovmnt and expenditures.                Novenmer 1992.
First Quarter 1993.



URUGUAY
PUBUC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
MATRIX OF PROJECT ACTIVMES
MAIN OBJECTIVES                 PROJECT COMPONENT ACTIVITIS                        EXPOCTED OUTPUTJiMPACT                 TUNG TARGETS
l                                                                     |  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StARTJCMLTON)
1. deveproanof NMwot    1. Asta ge                                               I.                                                 .
Reguaton to Inrease EffIncy  (a) prspar  rguato  framework for th nw port      Oall reguto   d admins i framewok for           De"":
Wn Allo Pate Parilpetlon      Sytm.                                            the new port ystm and conceion regimes.         Fou        r 102.
(b1 defnig reqrmen for private operators;I t
(*1 anyn the viily of faing ship and pont    Ellnates restdive port praot; and etablhes         Fourth Ouar 103.
equipment and repir facItoes;                   role of goverrwnent as polCY nwand regulat
(d) analyzIng options for divesiure of the dredg  wih nw rob of prvate tor as
fleet;                                          ownerloonceelona end operator.
(I prepring tehnicl an adrnIstrative guidelines for
port adrdnistration and oaptainde; wnd
(fl moiortino all other port rformn componets.
Esfma2ed   US$0.9 mlon.
2. ModenIze Port Admnistration   2. Mnagemn consultnts wia be hied to design snd   2.1O:                                     2. A .:
in Accordance with New Port   Implmnnt the adrinistive structure and hftonal    Dedgn and  nplentadon of new admfnistrativ     Rret Quartew 1993.
Model.                        oVeranation of ANP, MTOPs Ports Directort,       stueture, organifton end method for each port   Comde:
Montevido Port Captaincy and ANSE.              agency.                                          irst Quarter 1994. 
g    US$1.3 milon.                         h
___________________  ________________                   ,______________         Allows deelopment of new  port  molde.        ____o_nw pot_od l
3. OptimIze Port Service and  3. Assistance to:                                3. OA1Dut:                                    3. S:
Operatons.                    (a) optimkz crgo-handling methods to be used bV  Design and implemetn of tho ports operational   First Quarw  1993.
prvat operrs and ANPIMTOP;                      stucture, oranizaton and methods.               Gomn:
(bh develop operatn  norms and procedures for     ImeS:                                         Tldrd Quartr 1993.
superision and coordinaton of port-elated acdvities;    Effiient basic port services at competiv costs.
and
(a) coote funtons of ANP and the Port Captincy.
Esd..2tod    US$0.7 nillion.
4. Oher Assistane for         4. Consutat sevices to:                          4. Outjut:                                    4.  :
Complion of the Reform.        (a) anay  feasbit of pthvazaon of port equipet   (a) Optios for ptvadtton of non-core port      Fourth Quarter 1992.
and mantene, dredging towage, port warehousing    servies; and 
and other sves; and                             (b Development of professional groups capable of  Third Quater 1993.
lb) tring of staff for port opations.           operaftng under nw pgort system.
fed"Ited oot;US$0.4 mMilion.                     kn                                                                        1t
More eompetve and efficent port service under
private operatots.                           ________



URUGUAY
PUBUC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
MATRIX OF PROJECT ACTIVIES
MAIN OBJECTIE                    PROJECT COMPOIENT ACTIVITES                         EXPECTED OUTPUTJIMPACr                   TUMING TARGETS
|   STARTICOPLrOtN)
1. Establsh New Regulaon. to    1. Desin now regulaory famework Includin         1. Out:
Allw for lno_sed Pdiva         or_ganind  of reguato  entity dNwing pivate       Regulaory system defning gts and obligations of  Thid Quarter 1992
PartIcpation,                  paatpon in pogn oraon, trsnnsbn end               Go nt w  public and p           rd.              t se  Grnt.
Esd  eost US80.4 nil on {inckides US#X  millbOn   AUows futre devaopm   ofthe secto bds on         Swond Ouwwr 1993.
undr t  Japanes Grant Faclity).                   pdvate sector fforts. 
____________________ _  _         .Fourth   Ouste   1993.
2. Establih Reguatory          2. Trninr proaram for govrnmen offiials an UTE    2.                                                1
Cenoutin.                      on power setot reform an rultldon.                Govenment offimcers with experdse to enfso       Seond Quafter 1993.
E si"BW ooUS$0.1 Mnion.                           sctor egulations and UTE maagement with
capabiity to apply new sector directves.         Fourth Quuter 1998.
Effiient reguatory syns.
3. Pdvetizaon of Seletoed UTE  3. Detailed plan for pivangl franchisin UTE's     3. oZ                                           a. : n
Por Pbnots                     Coneudol6n power generation plnt including        Detiled plan for sdeetion and implementation of  Second Quarter 1993.
oranizio     a  financial stuoture, ond           pdrvatitton of EL Psimer. including bidding           f
Irnplornentatiom                                  documents.                                       Second Quarter 1994.
Es0med eose LUS$0.4 miNion.                        in-18¢t
Provides basis for successful plvatlzaton.
1. Reduce Dhimenon and         1. AsIstance to MGAP to finance:                  1.                                              1. :
Increae Efficiency of the      (a) creation of rnodernization unit,              Ation plans ollowed by mplem    on concerning    First Quarter 1991
Ministry of Agricultre.        (b) studies to determine divtre option for MGAP's  elimination of functions, divesiture of extension an  (under Japanese Grant).
services; nd                                      other services, end reorgnition of MGAP.          Com
(c) ation pla to reorWnizo nd inrse efn  of           t:                                           Fourth Quart 199S.
MGAP aftwf redinvonsoning.                       (a) Reduttion of Expenditures and improved
ESdgW  c US$1 .106 milRIon (US$0.6 million        effiiency of sevin eccording to mrret demand;
under Woan US40.606 nigion under Japes Grentl.    (bl wOil serve as pilot project for future reforrn of
other central govennt entities.
2. Define Options for Divestiure    2. Preparetion of diegostics and options for  2. Owu                                         2. taret
of ANCAP's Cement and Alcohol   pivaletion for ANCAP's cement and licohd pla.    Acfion pans for divestre of ANCAP's cement and   Third Quartor 1993.
Plbnts.                        E    e        US$0.35 mnirion.                    alcohol plants.                                  Gemolion:                 4   |
IrBct                                          Ttdrd Ouarter 1994.      IL
Demonopolizadon of cement and alcohol aeVtie    Tr Q
and streamdiring of ANCAP's production lines.



URUGUAY
PUIUC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
l___________________                                        MATR1X OF PROJECT ACT  T
MAIN OBJECTIES                  PROJECT COMPONENT ACIVMES               |         EXPECTED OUTPUTjIMPACT                  TIMIN  TARGETS
l                                 .            I                                                ZI;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(TART}COMPLETION    l
3. ProVId Tedhnisa Support to    3. R   neg of consutant for oter Go eminet    3.                                            3. To be determined for
the Govelrmnt hI Othr         p_datton fforts Ibncldion sm*sal pdvatz_ons    Sudbe and IWinlmstton pan for smhall-scae        eah Sub.monent.
Pdvaltlon Effors.             Ood diepots. hospit servces Gownmwnt Printn      end othe pudvatlon sohtes.
Hote etc.). 
E s oost: US90.6 mWn.                 fIreased effeoatinses of Govewnent
l __________________________                                                    P,lvstlzetlon   sjndertaldngs.               __________________un d .
tA



- 31 -
MM 2
Paso I of 8
A. SECTOR PROFILE
Backtround and Re Sector Issues
1.  The development of Uruguay's telecommunications sector is impeded by
fundamental problems: an inadequate regulatory framework, high backlogged demand,
overall poor quality of service, distorted tariff structure, ANTEL's deficient
commercial orientation, and low productivity.
Sector Oranizxation and Reaulatorg  Framework
2*  The existing industry structure in Uruguay positions Admlnistraci6n Nacional
de Telecomunicaciones (ANTEL), a state-owned public enterprise of the Government,
as a monopoly service provider in most segments of the Telecommunications Sector
(see Table 1). Law 14325 of July 1974 granted ANTEL monopoly on local, long
distance, and international telecmmunication services, and regulatory control
over interconnection, tariffs and market entry. ANTEL bas the dual role of
regulator and service operator. Law 15671 of November 8, 1984 gave Direccion
Nacional de Comunicaciones (DNC) the administration and regulation of radio and
broadcasting services and the radio-frequency spectrum. However, in practice,
since all telecommunication services are ANTEL's monopoly, DNC will not grant
licenses to new operators without ANTEL's approval.
Demand   ansd     xistinA      TELEPHONE PENETRATION, LINES/100 INHAB.
Facilities
so
3.   ANTEL    provides
telephone,   telex   and
telegraph    services
throughout  the  country.      40
ANT$L had 415,000 lines
in service on January 1,
1991, which makes Uruguay
a country with one of the
highest    telephone
densities    in    Latin
Americas  13.4  lines/lOO
population (soe Pig. I).
However, unmet demand is
estimated   at   100,000
lines at January 1, 1991,        am    uI  tInl bourtoo ChIl  ,=It OUPaW om Rt
and there are protracted
installation delays (more
than   three   years   is                        Flame I
common). Uruguayan demand
exceeds that expected by
its level of GDP development. Low local tariffs have overstimulated residential
demand relative to GDP. Existing plans for line growth should be reviewed to



- 32 -
ARMs 2
tgo 2 of 8
avoid future reduced revenues, and to permit investments in advanced business
services.
Ouslitv of Service
4.   As of January 1, 1991, 581 of the installed lines were connected to digital
exchanges, providing high call completion rates to subscribers, mostly in
Montevideo. On the average, however, completion rates were 501, as compared to
651 to 702 for good networks in developed countries. Quality of service in the
rural areas is lower than in Montevideo, since the majority of services are
provided by manual exchanges or rural multiaccess radio telephones. There are
many small towns with no service at all. Seventy percent of subscribers faults
are repaired in less than two vorking days, which is good compared to the best
performance networks of developed countries (902); however, trouble rates are 4
to 5 times the number in woll-maiatained networks, with many "repeat" troubles.
Montevideo had 3,750 and the interior 1,450 public coin telephones on January 1,
1991, or a penetration of 1.7 telephones/1000 population, which is low compared
with developed countries (US 7, Japan 6.7, France 3.4 tel/1000 pop.).
Tariffs.
EVOLUTION OF DOMESTIC TARIFFS
-5.     A N T S L    8
international tariffs are
high.      The  weighted
average of the ratio of          *"
calling  prices  to  and
from Uruguay shows that
it costs US$1.50 to call         70.
from  Uruguay  for  every
US$1.00   to   call   to         s
Uruguay.  In   contrast,
inflation   has   eroded
domestic local exchange
tariff s in real terms by
401  since  1985,  since
tariff   adjustments   in         e a              46    6
that  period were  lower
than inflation (Fig. II).
Local exchange tariffs in
Uruguay  are  low  when                          Figure II
compared    to    similar
economies. As shown in Fig. III, while it took 8.1 hours of work in Mexico to
pay for monthly local charges, it took only 1.4 hours in Uruguay, and 0.4 in the
US (1990 data). A consultant study recommended raising tariffs enough to restore
losses caused by inflation, in the absence of demand elasticity studies.
Commercialization
6. ARTML is deficient in providing specialized customer attention for business
users. ANTEL does not differentiate between business, professional, and
residential subscribers for provision of repair service. Businesses perceive



- 33-
Page 3 of 8
ANTIL'a service as slow and inefficiout. International direct long-distance
dialing is available to most subscribers in Montevideo and the main cities, and
long-distance subscriber dialing is available to all but the rural manual
exchange subscribers (3.51 of lines). However, because of the high international
tariffs, there are more incoming thsn outgoing calls, and these high rates
discourage the introduction of value-added services by corporate subscribers. The
financial center of Montevideo is served by old electromechanical exchanges.
ANTEL does not commercialize other services that are available in the digital
exchanges and only sells a very limited set of value-added or advanced services.
ANTRL provides basic services to all business customers, and processes their
bills every month. However, ANTEL does not have an operations support system
(08) based on a computerized database of subscribers that could provide
fundamental business information, improve quality of service, and develop the
marketing of advanced services.
Pinances and Productivity
7.  ANTEL had US$186.4 million revenues in 1990, or a revenue on average of
US$484 per line. The most important revenue source was telephone operations at
US$124.9 million, and within that, the international traffic. Long-distance
traffic reached 78 million calls in 1990 and international calls 67 million
minutes in 1990. More revenues would be obtained from international calls if
tariffs to the customer were lowered, because of the reversal of traffic (more
outgoing traffic, and less incoming traffic). On average, a 50X reduction would
bring the international tariffs on a par with other countries. The majority of
ANTIEL's revenues comes from basic services, and very little from value-added
services.
8.   ANTEL expenses were US$186.1 million in 1990.   Major expenses were
operational at US$79.2 million and exchange losses at US$49.3 million. The
operating costs were $309 per line. The largest share of operational expenses is
related to staff salaries and social charges. There were 7,600 staff in the work
force, or 17 staff/100 lines, as compared to 4 staff/1000 lines in efficient
telephone companies of developed countries, and an average of 20 staff 11000 lines
in Latin America. ANTEL has not taken the opportunity offered by new digital
technology to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs.
9.  The Government hired the services of a reputed accounting firm to audit
ATEL's 1991 accounts and present them in internationally accepted format. With
the assistance of consultants, ANTEL prepared financial projections, for 1991 to
2000, under different scenarios. Projections for 1991 indicate a revenue of $484
per line, and operating costs of $288 per line, for an operating result of $210
per line. The debt/equity ratio is projected at 521 in 1991. ANTEL will provide
a return of 18.3Z on fixed assets and 23.1Z on equity. Under various scenarios
the value of ANTEL could be increased by the followings (a) tariff alignment; (b)
business-line emphasis; (c) introduction of an 08S (a computer database system
to keep track of plant, service ordors, trouble reports, and billing
information); and (d) introduction of value-added services (cellular, toll-free
calling, information services, custom calling and local-area signalling).



- 34 -
AI  2
Paso 4 of a
B. REFORM PROGRAM
WORKING HOURS REQUIRED TO PAY
Objectives                                    mmmcv L SA wa a
100  The reform  program
objectives  are  tot  (a)        7
establish Uruguay as an
1 n t e r n a t i o n a 1        ay
telec ommunications
gateway or service center
for  the  Southern  Cone;        4
(b) introduce competition
in   the   provision   of
services; (c) hold prices        a
at reasonable levels; (d)
increase  private                              __7 
investment    in    the 
uetwork;   (e)  increase           'a",  ,,_.  ..   tnI  WIg4y    n   U.8.
telephone    penstration;
(f) improve the overall
quality of service;  and                        Figure III
(g) develop and preserve
the national endowment.
New Rexulatory Framework
11. With the assistance of consultants the Government identified the options
for restructuring the sector and decided to choose the ones listed in Table 1.
The recommended sector structure has three configurations; near term, medium term
and long term. The near term refers to the day that the concession contract with
the new *ANTELO is signed. The medium and long term refer to 2 and 5 to 7 years
after this event.
12. Public Swltched services. The rationale for near-term basic public switched
services (as vwll as telex and telegraph) remaining a monopoly is to allow time
for a competitive network to evolve. The size of the Uruguayan economy will not
likely support competition in basic services in the near term. The current size
of the wireline network requires a single provider for economies of scale.
Disruptive pricing structure changes will be required under a competitive
environment if the cross-subsidies built into the tariff structure were
eliminated in the near term. Duplication of wireline subscriber plant would be
unproductive, requiring a lengthy construction program and large capital
investments. The telegraph system must remain as a government concession to
satisfy the conditions established by the Constitution. Nevertheless, in the
long term, the natural evolution of the sector will allow for competition at the
public services level. Technical advances will allow wireless service providers
to provide public switched services in competition with the single wireline
service provider. The increase in the number of subscribers and the traffic
volume increase will support more than one service provider of public switched



- 35 -
Pate 5 of a
services in the future.   Telex and telegraph services will be displaced by
competitive value-added services, such as facsimile and electronic mail.
13. Sevvices under limited competition. Public non switched services, special
networks and private customer networks will be under limited competition. These
services will increase their overall penetration, promoting quality of service
and reasonable pricing. Competitive pressures would increase the quality of
leased lines, and the innovation and scope of advanced offerings (i.e., high
speed digital), providing greater choice of providers for the customer, and
reducing the need for market regulation. However, competition will create the
opportunity to bypass the public network if not properly controlled, requiring
overview by a regulatory body to assure no infringement on switched services.
14. Services under full competition. Customer premises equipment, value-added
services, and mobile radio will be open to full competition. This will increase
the overall quality of equipment in the network, increase the options to users,
maximize potential for innovation and scope of services and lower service prices
through competition for market share. However, there will be an increased need
for technical regulation of interconnection and equipment certification.
TASBLB 1. CU1UWNT AND PROPOSED TEBLCOI(IC3TXON8 SECTOR BTRUCTR
INDUSTRY            CURRENT             RECOMMENDED STRUCTURE
SEGMENT            STRUCTURE      .
NEAR TERM    MID TERM 11  LONG TEM V
'Public Swtedw Servic     FulFull                    Lbmtd       FulI
.8asbc Swtctwd Servies    Monopol      Monopoly      Compeion    Co_m
-Enhanced Switched Serices             _ 
'Public Non Switched Servies  Full     Lidted        Likted      Fuli
-Analog/Digital Leased Unes  Monopoly  Comptition    Compettion    Co _m
'CustoMe Pretmis E         imited      Full         FUl          Full
-Primary and Secony Station Eqmt. Compeon  Comptition  Competio  Cmpeotin
-POX and Key Sets
-Inside Wiring and Maintenance  I                                 _
Special NetwoSIS                                      p _   _    ,WM
*TesrTlesgraph          Monopoly     MonopolY                      d .. 4WJ
Cea Telephone           Full         Uirited      Lmited       Linte
*Meblib Radio           Monepoly     Compen       ComPetion    Comen
Full         Full         Full        Full
Competion    Competitn    Conition    Comtiton
Value Added Servies                                  Fuli    7    ul
-Packet Switched Soevices  Lbmted      Full          Compen    Competitio
-inormation Services      Competon     Coptitio
-Messagefofansacton-based Services                                 _
*Pdvate Customer Networks  Allowed      Alowed       A towed     Allowed iwithout
(without Resale)  (without Resale)  (wFthoutieale  Resale)
1/ Less than 2 years after the concession contract.
2J 5 - 7 years after the concession contract.



- 36 -
A  2
Page 6 of 8
15. Congress approved the Public Enterprise Reform Law (No. 16,211 of October
1, 1991), which defines the new industry structure, assigns the regulatory powers
to the Executive, and permits the State to associate with private investors to
operate and develop telecommunlation services.
New kemulatorv Entity
16. The Government issued Decrees 718 and 1075 on December 30, 1991, creating
the "Comisi6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones" (CONTEL) to regulate the
telecommunications sector. Specifically COUTEL will: (a) approve agreements with
foreign entities relative to the establishment of telecommunications services;
(b) authorize installation of new services, either for commercial purposes or
its own use or controll (c) authorize and control prices and tariffs for
telecommunication services provided by ANTEL or other suppliers, with the
exception of those supplementary or derived services: (d) control the quality,
regularity, and scope of authorized telecommunication services; (e) formulate
norms for technical control of telecommunication systems and networks; (f)
establish industrial rules and standards to ensure the interoperability of
networks; (g) approve equipment types; (h) manage and control the radio-frequency
epectrum, with the exception of broadcasting and Ministry of National Defense
frequencies; (i) authorize operation of services by private companies; and (j)
protect consumers. CONTEL also will be responsible for the preparation of the
Telecommunications Sector National Plan and its update.
17. Consultants have started working in Montevideo to assist the Government in
the implementation of CONTEL. It is expected that the commission will be fully
operational before the new "ANTEL" concession contract is signed.   The
consultants will also assist the Government in the preparation and drafting of
the detailed sector regulations and norms.
Timetable
18. The Government has established a timetable for all activities required to
privatize ANTEL (Pig. IV). This Government timetable calls for work to be
completed before the end of 1992. Decree 720, of December 30, 1991, establishes
that ANTEL will be privatised through a process of international public tender,
which will invite reputable international operators to bid for the 52X share of
the new enterprise --402 of the shares will belong to the State, and 82 to the
former ANTEL employees. The new law requires majority (512) national ownership,
which effectively requires a miniw' 1% private national capital. Decree 720
also establishes the procedure for prL.ialification, the preparation of the terms
and conditions of the privatization, as well as the procedures for evaluation and
award, the terms for the transfer of assets and liabilities of ANTEL to the new
company, and the conditions for the transfer of staff, including the option of
voluntary retirement or relocation.



FIGURE 6.
TIMETABLE FOR THE PRIVATIZATION OF ANTEL
Dec.91 Jan.92 Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  Ma   Jun.  Jul.  6Au     Sep   OcL   Nov.  Dec.
EGULATORY FRAMEWORK
1. Regatory Commission
2 Re"guatMework
L FINANCIAL. ACCO_UNT     r
ANDAUDOI
1. FIancusi Saents               FIN. STATEENTS        AUDIT
Prepaation and Audk t
TFP 1/       AWARD CONTRACr                                         FINAL REPORT
1. Financial Advisor
RFP          AWARD    ,CT                             FIAL REPORT
2. Legal Advir                                                                      -
RFP   PRE-0
& Preualfetlon
OMRAFl       AP    RE    OFFERS
4. Bld Documentfenderes
AADCONTRACT
5. Award/ContactTransfe            __ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ __  _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
Note 1. APP- Reques for Propos
U.|
o 



- 38 -
Amt 2
Par a of 8
Intenational Biddinf Process
19. In June 15, 1992, AMTEL invited international operators to prequalify based
on: (a) good quality of service provision to customers; (b) a minimum number of
tolephone lines I(c) evidence of financial solvency; and (d) managerial capacity.
20. After prequalificacion by the end of July 1992, ANTEL will distribute the
terms and conditions of the privatization, which will include:
(a) The minamum tivestment levels, in terms of new lines, for the next 5
years;
(b) The minimum levels of service quality;
(c) The terms and conditions of the concession, including the exclusivity
periods for basic services;
(d) The geographic area of the concession and the services included;
(e)  The tariff review procedure and the lnitial tariff levels;
(f) The yearly fees to CONIEL, and the procedures for reporting to CONTEL;
(8) The interconnection policies among operators;
(h) The dividend policies;
(i) The renewal and termination mechanisms for the concession;
(j) The rights of subscribers to non-discriminatory practices in service
provision.
21. The Board of ANTEL, with the approval of the Executive, will appoint the
members of the evaluation committee.   The committee will select the best
qualified bidder and the firm chosen will be invited to participate in the new
company (now "Sociedad Anonima").  The new company's Board will have 7 or 11
members, of which 3 or 5 will be given Series 'A' shares (491 of capital)
representing ANTEL and including staff participation, and 4 or 6 members
(including the president) will be given Series 'B' shares (512 of capital),
representing the selected private firm.
Concession Contract
22. The concession contract will set the exclusivity period for each basic
service. After expiration of this period, any supplier can request the granting
of a licenselconcession to operate this service, on a competitive basis.
Services not included in the concession will be open to competition. Examples
area direct lines, provision of terminal equipment, data lines, value-added
services, private-branch exchanges, and international business services,
including the operation of small-aperture satellite antennas.
Technical Assistance
23. The Government will prepare the bidding specificatione and evaluate the
offers, with the assistance of Financial and Legal Advisors. The Financial
Advisor, an Investment Bank, was selected on March 31, 1992, and will lead the
privatization tasks. The Legal Advisor, an International Law Firm, was selected
on May 31, 1992, and will assist in the legal matters of the privatization of
ANTIL and the regulatory framework and implamentation arrangements.



- 39 -
MMs 3
ft a 1 ot 4
AIR TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. SECTOR PROFILE
1.    In 1989, approximately 600,000 passengers travelled between Montevideo and
other countriest approximately 501 involving Argentina (Buenos Aires), 161
Brazil, 112 European countries, 92 the United States, and 141 other countries.
In addition, many regular and non-regular flights connecting Punta del late with
Buenos Aires accounted for an additional 140,000 passengers, mostly during the
summer season (late December through March).
2.    A restructuring proposal, currently being evaluated, will transfer the
responsibilities for the design and implementation of the air transport policy
from the Minister of Defense and Air Force to the Minister of Transport.
Primeras Lineas Urutuavas de Navexacifn Aerea (PLUnA)
3.    General Information and Fleet. PLUNA is the national airline of Uruguay
created as autonomous entity by Law No. 11.740 in November 1940. PLUNA transports
approximately 320,000 passengers a year, which provides the company with a gross
incame of approximately US$70.0 million. Total assets amount to approximately
US$47.0 million. It has 1,000 employees, which is excessive given its relatively
smll size. PLUNA operates regional flights with its three 737-200 advanced,
with an average age of approximately 9 years. The Madrid flights were performed
with one Boeing 707 (approximately 25 years old), which has been temporarily
replaced by a leased Boeing 707 due to technical problems.
4.   Piancial Condition. The financial information about PLUNA has not been
audited and is of poor quality. The financial statements for 1988 and 1989 have
not yet been approved by the board; the financial statement for 1990 has been
approved by the board, but its accuracy is uncertain. Following an evaluation
prepared by consultants, the management of PLUNM is updating and improving the
quality of the company's financial information and has recruited external
auditors. An audited financial statement for 1991 will be completed by end-July
1992. PLUNA has started to restructure; a voluntary retirement program has led
to a reduction of 60 employees.
5.    In  1988, PLUNA  showed an  operational profit of US$669,370, which
corresponds to 1.122 of its operational income; its profit in 1989, US$2.9
million, represents 4.11Z of operational income. In 1990, it ran a deficit of
US$4.2 million, or 5.832 of the operational income. The net result of the
financial operations, including debt service, indizates heavy losses, resulting
in a total deficit of US$23.6 million in 1988, US$21 million in 1989 and US$24.5
million in 1990, or 39.631, 29.711, and 33.93X, respectively, of the operational
income. The total assets of the company in December 1990 were approximately US$
47.6 million, including US$27.2 million in fixed assets (including aircraft and
real estate).
6.    PLUNA's liabilities in December 30, 1990 were approximately US$47.2
million, including long-term debt of US$38 million. This long-term debt has been
partly consolidated in 1991 through agreements negotiated by OPP. (After



- 40 -
Pgo 2 of 4
rescheduling, PLUNA's arrearage grew to US$2.0 million). The remaining long-term
debt is represented in purchase of three aircraft originally bought by the
Government in 1983 and initially donated to PLUNA.   The administration is
planning to consolidate the transfer of the aircraft to PLUNA, opening
simultaneously a credit from the Central Bank denominated in Nuevos Pesos in the
amount of the remaining debt.
7.    PLUNA'e Share in the Different Markets. PLUNA shares the Argentine market
with Aerolineas Argentinas (each company has 4 flights a day), and the Brazilian
market with Varig (PLUNA makes 7 flights a week and Varig 10 flights a week).
In the case of Chile, the market is shared with two airlines, Lan Chile and
Ladeco, which offer 3 and 2 flights a week, respectively, while PLUNA offers only
2 to Santiago. In the case of Paraguay (Asunci6n), Lineas A6reas Paraguayas
(LAP) is operating alone ( 1 flight a week). The European market is shared with
South American airliness Aerolineas Argentinas, Varng and LAP from Montevideo,
and Lineas AAreas Bolivianas (LAB), and VIASA (the Venezuelan airline) through
Buenos Aires; and the European airlines, Lufthansa (1 flight per week through
Buenos Aires), RLM (2 flights per week) and Air France (3 flights a week). The
US market is supplied by Aerolineas Argentinas, Varig, LAN Chile, Ladeco, and
LAB. American Airlines is now scheduling direct flights to Montevideo. In the
cargo market, PLUNA also competes with private Uruguayan airline companies
specialized in freight transport and operating leased aircraft like Aerolineas
Uruguayas, Aero Sur, and Aero Uruguay. There is no need to increase the number
of flights to Uruguay, which is at present considerable.
B. REFORM PROGRAM
8.    Obiectives of the Reform.   The reform effort would transfer PLUNA's
ovnership to the private sector in the interest of increasing the country's air
transport efficiency.
9.   Establishment of a Joint Venture.  Law No. 16.211 and the implementation
decree for PLUNA, issued on December 30, 1991, authorize PLUNA to establish a
partnership with private investors. An Adjudication Committee will be in charge
of implementing the partial privatization of PLUNA. This partnership will be
established as a joint venture in which PLUNA will contribute with its assets;
the new partners would compensate PLUNA in cash for the purchase of their shares.
The joint venture will be constituted as follows: PLUNA will take preferential
shares corresponding to 491 of the new capital (including up to an 81 share for
its employees), and will be represented at board meetings by three directors with
veto power over company borrowings, sale of assets, and capital increases. The
private consortium will hold 51Z of ordinary shares, with majority participation
by the operator, and will be represented at board meeting by four directors,
including the chairman, and should be conformed to ensure a Uruguayan majority
in the company's capital stock. A Fiscal Commission for the new company will be
established comprised of three members, two appointed by PLUNA, and one by the
private consortium. The joint venture will have the preferential traffic rights
accorded to Uruguay for a period of 10 years from the date of issue of the
implementation decree. It will also be empowered to participate in charter
operations for air transport of passengers and freight. The decree provides
options for the transfer of staff, voluntary retirement or relocation.



- 41 -
Pag. 3 of 4
10.   Policy Framework for Aviation. The transfer of nUNU  to the private sector
represents a major change in Uruguay's air transport policy.  For this reason,
the privatization of PLUMA would be preceded by a detailed review of the Air
Transport Code, which constitutes the laws and rules affecting the sector. The
new regulatory framework would eliminate all of PLU's a advantages and stimulate
private investment and competition throughs (a) a clear definition of air
transport policy and the role of the regulatory agency; (b) simplification of
procedures for the creation of new airlines; and (c) design and implementation
of a transparent and flexible procedure for route designation.
11.   IWm,lementation Process
(a)   &uditinx of Financial Statements.  The first step, already taken by
PLUNA, has been the recruitment of external auditors to audit the
company's 1991 financial statements, includings
(i)  review of the financial statements for 1989 and 1990,
(ii) updating of the market value of PLUNA's assets to increase
transparency of the company's financial situation before
privatization,
(iii) identification of all liabilities of PLUNA to reduce the
future discussion of hidden liabilities,
(iv)  valuation of the company through present value of discounted
cashflow, and market and replacment value of tangible assets
minus liabilities,
2v)   projections  for routes available to PLUMA in bilateral
agreements, and
(vi)  simulations regarding long-term debt to define the amount of
debt compatible with the size and profitability of PLUNA's
operations.
(b)   PrLvatization of PLUM.  The Government has issued a timetable for
the privatization of PLUNA (Fig. I), which establishes calls for
prequalification of potential bidders by July 1992, issuing of
bidding documents by November 1992, and privatization of PLUMA
during the first quarter of 1993. The Government will prepare the
bidding specifications and evaluate the offers with the assistance
of Legal and Financial Advisors, which were selected on May 1992.
The Legal Advisors will also define main aspects on aviation policy
to be considered in the bidding documents.



FIGURE 1.
IIMETABLE FOR THE PRIVATIZAMON OF PLUNA
'_________________I____________   Dec91 JaL.92 Feb. Mach  Jgla    Jl  Au S            Oc. NM. Dec92 Jan   Feb. M    arch
L REGULATORY FRAMEWORK  . .                            DE____
2. Reguhsy tEOwmlsIa
W. FINANa, .lACCOUNTNG,
ANDAUDIT
t. pinancial Satemen                    FIN. SIAEMS  AUDIT
Prepat"  nd AU.
III. ThANSPORMATION PROCESS                              . L
RFI n   AWARD                                     F RACT  PINAL REPORT                   tv
1. FIrancI Advsor
RFP    AWARD co*.Acr                              FINAL REPORT
2. Legl Adlism
RFP      IRe
Da    Gjo   HVRFr   OFFRS
4.Bid 
AWARD ODNACr
Nte .. Rw PReque, ,,or P,,p_,,,,,_                   _,,__ ,___,,___',
Noto 1. RFPmR.quost Sor Pmposl
_ _



- 43 -
AMY  4
Paso 1 of 4
PORTS
A. SECTOR PROFILE
1.     Commercial ports in Uruguay are administered by the National Ports
Administration (ANP), an independent organization run by a Board of Directors,
whose president ie appointed by the President of the Republic, and other members
appointed by the main political parties, as established by the Constitution.
Other non-commercial ports (nautical, etc.) are administered by the National
Directorate of Hydrography (DUB), a government department under the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works (MTOP).
AP
2.    Ortanization and Functions.  ANP is a decentralized entity established in
1916 (Law 5495), and still functioning in accordance with Decree Law 8988, dated
April 23, 1933. According to the above mentioned laws, ANP is not an autonomous
entity, and does not have the monopoly for port services. However, in practice,
ANP is the sole provider of maritime, on-shore cargo handling and port storage
services at all ports under its jurisdiction (except at the privately-owned grain
terminal at Nueva Palmira). The National Administration of Stevedoring Services
(ANSE) is the sole provider of cargo-handling services on-board ships. ANP is
also responsible for maintenance of Montevideo's access channel and port basin.
As a result of the above, ANP owns all cargo-handling equipment and a fleet of
tugboats and dredgers, as well as workshops and ship-repair facilities for their
repair and maintenance.
3.   Productivity and Labor situation.  Montevideo is the most important port
of the country; in 1990, it handled almost 901 of total port cargo and 451 of all
international passengers. Port efficiency, however, is one of the lowest in the
region; cargo-handling productivity compares most unfavorably with other regional
porte not known by their efficiency, on a ratio 3 to 1; and with well-known ports
of industrialized countries on a ratio of 15 to 1.
4.    Overstaffing has been endemic at ANP.  Although recently its Board of
Directors took advantage of government initiatives to modernize its
administration, creating mechanisms to induce voluntary retirement (about 930
positions, including all categories were eliminated), payroll costs still
represent about 751 of total costs. Although some efforts have been made to
modernizing AMP's operational and administrative methods and procedures (cargo
handling and information systems are now being modernized), port labor and
administrative personnel have not yet been rationalized.
5.    Institutional Problems.   ANP's current organization and operational
features are based on its initial concepts all services are to be covered from
internally generated funds. However, the services and activities in which ANP
is engaged include ship repair services, towage, dredging, large medical
services, etc., that once institutionalized have proven difficult to abolish due
to union pressures. These problems plus the rigidity of ANP'Is internal structure
have prevented structural changes to reduce or transfer services that are
unnecessary or that could be provided more efficiently by others.



- 44 -
MMlK 4
Pogo 2 of 4
6.    Although ANP's current board has made some administrative improvements,
ANP's organization and its administrative procedures are inefficient and
obsoletel reliable and timely information and data are inappropriate; port and
investment planning capabilities are weak; and quality and cost controls are not
well established.
7.    Financial Condition. Net operational revenues were about US$3.7 million
in 1990, but due to interest charges and foreign exchange differences total
losses registered about US$20 million. AMP's debt service could not be covered
in 1987 and 1988 from its internally-generated funds, requiring finance from the
Treasury.
8.    Port Tariffs.  Port tariffs are not cost-related, import tariffs are ad
valorem, exports are subsidized, and none of the tariffs have provisions for
depreciation. In addition, they have remained unchanged since 1986 (in dollar
terms). Imports in 1990 amounting to about 640,000 tons generated more than 50S
of total revenues from on-shore services charSing ad-valorem  tariffs;  in
contrast, exports amounting to about 550,000 tons generated only 16S for the same
services.
9.   Problem Areas. The Port of Montevideo's advantageous position is yet to
be fully exploited; in terms of depth of the access channel, port basin, and
alongside quays, the port could attract more traffic with more acceptable levels
of efficiency. The recently created Commercial Department will obtain technical
assistance under the ongoing loan 3021-UR to develop a commercial policy and
promote efficient port services at more competitive costs.   The Commercial
Department needs to pay special attention to: (a) simplification of port
documentation and procedures; (b) coordination of the port services with those
provided by others; and (c) coordination of the activities of all other
participants in port-related matters.
10.   Actions to reduce ANP's port costs (estimated at less than 112 of the total
transport cost for Uruguayan exports, and, due to ad-valorem tariffs applied to
all imports, at about 17% for these) are important to reduce/avoid ship waiting
times and reduce ship-service time to prevent penalties to the ports in the form
of higher conference freight rates, which in turn would then be transferred to
the Uruguayan economy.
11.   DNH is responsible for: (a) port development, construction, maintenance and
administration, except commercial ports and the Port of Montevideo; and (b)
maintenance of navigable waterways and navigation aids, except the Montevideo
access chanesl and port basin.
12.  Fishing and commercial ports are supposed to be administered by ARP;
however, the current legal ports framework is unclear, and currently some of
those ports (for example, La Paloma) are still under DNE's domain. This should
be resolved by port regulations, to be prepared when the new port law is
approved. Efficiency of dredging services for the whole port system is below



- 45 -
P& S 3 of 4
desirable levels; therefore, this activity vill have to be carefully revieved.
B. REPORM STRATEGY
The Mew Port Law
13.   The Government's concern with Uruguay's inefficient port system, which had
negative repercussions for the country's program for trade liberalization, led
to its submitting a Port Reform law to congress in early 1991. Due to extensive
discussions, the law was only approved on April 7, 1992 and became effective on
May 4, 1992. The main aspects of the law are: (a) the central Government will
be in charge of designing port policies replacing the previous lack of definition
in the matter; (b) ANP and TOP will Implement such policies at the ports under
their respective juriedictiong (c) the provision of port services will be
transferred to the private sector, on a free-entry, competitive basis; and (d)
port captaincies will be established to direct, coordinate, supervise and monitor
efficiency of port operations and services. The following paragraphs describe
the strategy which will be adopted by the Government to implement the reform.
Strategic Aporoach
14.  While the aforementioned law was being -viewed and discussed in Congress,
AMP undertook preparatory measures intended t , facilita.e the port reform. These
measures were:
(a)   an initial restructuring of ANP's internal organization which
although appropriate under the new port model would also improve
efficiency of ANP under the previous legal regime;
(b)   implementation of the Government's  initiative to reduce labor
redundancy in the public sector (Decree Law 16727, issued in 1991),
leading to a reduction of over 700 employees;
(c)   reformulation of the technical assistance and training program
financed under the Bank's Loan 3021-UR, allocating US$2 million for
the  following  preparatory  activities  for  port  reforms  (i)
establiebment of a Project Direction Unit (UDP) to implement the
port reform program; (ii) development of data bases on human
resources, equipment and fixed assets to facilitate restructuring;
(iii) development of cost-related tariff structures, inventory
control and procurement procedures for the new port system; and (iv)
training of top management and personnel on procedures and
operations under the new port system.
15.  Imediately after the port law was approved, its implications were analyzed
by ANP, MTOP and the Bank, to identify priority areas to which the port reform,
should be geared to. These ares
(a)   elimination of de facto cargo-handling monopolies, allowing for the
creation of private stevedoring companies, under conditions of free



- 46 -
AM4
Page 4 of 4
entry, which will utilize thelr own andlor leased equipment, and
their own labor forces
(b)   deregulation of the restrictive etevedoring regis!.ry, allowing it to
include workers from private companies, and/or the establishment of
separate registries;
(c)   unification of all cargo-handling services (on-board and on-shore);
(d) improvement of other port services (towage, equipment maintenance,
etc.) with the participation of the private sector, through
concessions, authorizations, permits and/or contracteg and
(e) restructuring of all port-related agencies in accordance with their
new functions and responsibilities under the port lav.
16.  An Action Plan for the implementation of the port reform has been discussed
and agreed, in principle, by the Goverament; a copy of it is included as
Attachment 1 to this Annex.
17. To carry out the Plan of Action, the Government has established a Port
Reform Coordination Commission (PRCC), which would receive political directives
from, and report directly to higher Government levels responsible for the reform.
18.   The proposed project would finance the technical assistance and training
required for the reform's implementation, that would include the followings (a)
development of port regulations; (b) analysis of port operations option.,
inluding concessionary alternatives; (c) establishment of mechanisms and
procedures to improve other port services, with participation of private sector
enterprises through concessions, authorizations, permits and contracts; (d)
restructuring of all port agencies concerned; and (e) training of port captaincy
staff.
19.   On July 13, 1992, the Government issue a decree providing incentives for
the reduction of the stevedores at ANSE, which has led to the retirement of 588
stevedores, or most of ANSI's peru.anel.  This measure will allow private
stevedoing companies to freely select their own labor force.
20. The Bank bas agreed to use proceeds from Loan 3021-UR to finance short-term
international advisors to assist in the initial phase of the port reform program
until the proposed loan becomes effective. This financing would be additional
to the tecbnical assistance and training sumarized in paragraph 14(c) above,
which is already being financed under said loan.



- 47 -
Attahment I
P&eO 1 of 2
PLAN OF ACTION - PORT REEC'M                         l
ACTION               TASKS TO BE PERPORMED AS RESULT OF ACTION
1. Establishment of a Port  (a) Develop port policy framework;
Reform Coordination          (b) define ANP and MTOP ports, and their
Commission (PRCC)            boundaries;
(c) activate appointmemt of Port Captain;
(d) make arrangements to retain consultants
for all technical assistance component.; and
(e) develop interim mechanisms to unify port
labor and allow private cargo-handling
services.
2. Integrate a Consulting    (a) Develop port functional model and
Advisor Group (Phase I)      priority port regulations;
tb) define technical and economic
requirements for stevedoring companies;
(c) develop interim concessionary fees for
above companiest and
(d) advise PRCC in all matters under its
li _________________________  responsibillty.
3. Obtain Start up support   Ca) Coordinate ongoing ANP Technical
from ANP's UDP team;         Assistance and Training Program wirit the
Reform Plan of Action;
(b) assist PRCC and ANP in the migration of
the existing port system to the new one; sad
(c) prepare bid docs. for all other technical
assistance components.
4. Retain Consulting          a) Analyse feasibility of transfering each
Advisory Group (Phase -II)   .ue of the port services, other than cargo-
handling to private companies, and assess
interest of potential bidders;
(b) develop procurement documentation,
including prequlification parameters and
evaluation criteria;
(c) develop complete port regulations by
activity and service;
(d) assist PRCC on monitoring progress of the
reform; and
(e) based upon tariff structures and cost
data prepared by other, review and revise as
necessary concessionary fees for stevedoring
companies; and recommend fees for other port
services provided or to be provided by
private companies.



- 48 -
MMIF 4
Attacbmtt I
Page 2 of 2
PLAN 0 ACTION - PORT REFORM_
ACTION               TASKS TO BE PERFORMED AS RESULT OF ACTION
S. Retain Management          (a) Design administrative structure and
Consultants to restructure   functional organization for ANP, MTOP, CP and
the port agencies            ANSE; and
(b) assist these agencies in the
implementation of the above, supported by
ANP's human resources database inventory, and
provide administrative manuals, and required
software.
6. Retain Port Operation      (a) Design port operation planning methods
Consultants to assist MCP    and procedures to plan, conduct, coordinate,
and other CPs                 supervise and monitor port operations and
related activities; and provide manuals and
required software; and
(b) assist MCP and MTOP9s CPs in the
implementation of the above.
7. Retain additional          (a) Based on database inventories prepared by
consultants services study   other, assess feasibility of characteristics
alternative schemes to        and physical conditions of ANP's floating
divest ANP from and/or       craft and port equipment, including
enter association contracts  corresponding repair and maintenance
with private entrepreneurs   facilities-  and
for non-comercial             (b) canvass the market to assess the interest
activities                    of private sector in entering these
territories.



- 49 -
vase I of 6
POWERm
A. SECTOR PROFILE
Power Sector Oraanigatiot
1.    Since  1912,  the Administraci6n Nacional  de Usinas y Transmisiones
El6ctricas (UTE) has been the sole entity responsible for generation,
transmission, and retail distribution of electricity in Uruguay. UTE reports to
the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIt). UTE is managed by a five-member Board
of Directors, which is appointed by the Government. The Board approves major
investment plans, borrowing proposals, and corporate policies, and recommends
power rate changes to the Government. The scope of UTE's services is prescribed
in the National Electricity Law (BEL) and UTE's organic law. The MEL regulates
the generation, distribution, exports, and imports of electricity. Law No. 16211,
enacted last October 1, 1991, allows the participation of private investors in
generation activities, after previous approval and recommendation by UTE.
2.   There is a high degree of intervention from the Government in the power
sector and there are several agencies responsible for energy activities. UTE is
also subjected to various state legal and administrative restrictions. The
sector lacks an independent body to establish energy policies. On paper, MXE,
through the Direccion Macional de Energia (DNE), is responsible for the
formulation of pover policies, long-term planning and formulation of prices.
Electricity rate adjustments proposed by UTE are approved by Presidential decreet
the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Planning and Budgeting Office (OPP)
intervene in their determination, with primary decision-making powers vested in
the latter.  The annual budget is approved by OPP, which imposes ceilings on
investments sad expenditures; procurement activities are controlled by the
Tribunal de Cuentas (Auditing Agency), which is also responsible for ensuring
that UTE complies with budget legislation; and staffing and recruiting polices
are subjected to the civil service regulation.
3.    The only other entity that now operates in the power sector is the Comisifn
T6cnica Mixte del Salto Grands (CTH). CTI, which reports to the Mnistry of
External Affairs, is a binational entity owned by the governments of Uruguay and
Argentina in charge of the operation of the Salto Grands hydro power plant (1,890
MW). CT01s Board is composed of five Argentine and five Uruguayan members, all
appointed by their respective governments.



- so -
Page 2 of 6
mcmrgv Resources and Consumntion
4.    Uruguay has no known oil or gas reserves, small reserves of coal (with a
high ash content and low calorific value), and small deposits of oil shale and
peat. Hydropower resources are, by and large, already in use with the remaining
potential new hydro capacity not economical to develop at present fuel prices.
The country's energy use in 1990 is estimated at 2 million TOE, or a per capita
consumption of 0.66 TOE per year, which is lower than the Latin American average
of l.0 TOE per year. Uruguay was oue of the Latin American countries hardest hit
by the oil crises of the 1970s. As a result, the sector devoted its resources to
the development of hydropower plants to reduce the country's heavy reliance on
imported fuel. Since the commissioning of the Constitucai6n hydro plant (330 NW)
in 1982, the supply of electricity has been satisfactory, although the electrical
system faces the risk of supply deficits during dry seasons due to the lack of
sufficiant regulatory storage capacity (Para. 5).
Power Facilities and Market
5.    In 1991, UTE's installed capacity was 1,708 MW, of which 1,196 MW (701) was
hydro, and 512 MW (302) conventional thermal plants. Installations owned by
private industry to meet its own needs are estimated at 40MW. Actual Uruguayan
share of installed capacity of Salto Grande hydro plant is 630 MW, already
included in the above total. Salto Grande hydro plant is interconnected to UTE's
system by 500 kV lines which provide a link to Argentina's power network. In
1992, UTE will increase the share of Salto Grande capacity to 765 MW in 1992 and
890 in 1995 completing the share of 501 according to the Treaty. According to
the agreement, 412 of the total generation should be sold to Uruguay in 1992 and
501 in 1995. Before the installation of the two gas turbines (115 MW each) at
the end of 1991, UTZ's power balance studies showed that in the event of dry
conditions, UTE's thermal generating capacity was insufficient to meet the
expected load, with deficits that could reach over 301 of demand during the
period 1991-1995. The extremely dry season of 1989 confirmed these predictions.
After commissioning of the gas turbines, the deficit risk was reduced to 91 by
1992. The expansion plan includes also an additional gas turbine of 100 MW in
1996.
6.    The degree of olectrification in Uruguay is high (972) compared to the
average of 701 for Latin American countries. Gross power generation amounted to
3,882 GWh, of which 3,066 GWh (792) Was hydro, and 816 GWh (211) thermal. During
1980-1991, sales growth was 4.71 per year, but during the period 1988-1991, sales
grew only by 21 p.a., which reflects the economic stagnation experienced by the
country.
Performance of UTE
7*   UTE is implementing an Institutional Development Program (IDP) aimed at
improving the overall efficiency of its operations and strengthening its
distribution and commercialization activities. As a first step, UTZ entered into
a twinDing contractual agreement with a Spanish power utility (Union El6ctrica
Fenosa) to gain access to the commercial, administrative and engineering



- 51 -
AM=E 5
Pate S of 6
technology of a more developed utility. A new organizational structure Vas
implemented  and  a  new  economic/financial  information  system  is  under
implementation. Some ancillary services (maintenance of some thermal plants,
cleaning, and transport of personnel) are carried out through service contracts.
Under loan 3221-UR, the Bank is assisting UTE to improve sector efficiency by
improving UTE's managerial capability and reducing technical losses.   The
implementation of the IDP is on schedule, as followss (a) a new organization
structure is under wvy and is expected to be completed by March 19931 (b) the
purchasing and the distribution management system are under design; (c) a new
annual budget system has been satisfactorily implemented; (d) the power
exploitation, personnel, economic information, and commercial management systems
have been also implemented satisfactorily. A new billing system has been put in
place during the last quarter of 1991, except for large industrial customers
(16,000); the billing period (from measuring to deliver the bill) has been
reduced from 45 days to 30 days in the Montevideo area and from 75 days to 30
days in the rest of the country.
S.    Staff in. In 1991, the labor productivity indicator, measured as customers
per employee, was at very low levels, i.e.: 10,550 employees serving about 1
million  connections,  or  105  connections per  employee.    This  figure  is
significantly below the average for the Latin American countries (145). As the
result of a personnel retirement program, UTE's staff decreased by 7.51 in 1991
as compared to 1990. This program, together with a freeze on staff hirings, are
expected to improve labor productivity.
9.   Losses.  Currently, the total loss level is high (211) due to high
technical and non-technical losses. The high technical losses in the Montevideo
distribution network result from inadequacies of old installations. The high non-
technical losses result from inadequate commercial and customer-related
procedures.  Technical losses would be reduced with the renovation of the
distribution network in the Montevideo area, which are partially financed with
a Bank loan. Under the implementation of the IDP, with the assistance of the Bank
and the twinuing utility, non-technical losses would be also reduced through the
implementation of new commercialization procedures and the MIS for the
distribution network already started in the Montevideo area at the end of 1991.
As a result of the above, total losses are expected to be reduced to 151 by 1996.
Electricity Pricing
10. The National Electricity Law of 1977 defines the tariff regime in Uruguay
(based on agreements with the Bank under loan 1779-UR). It provides that UTE's
electricity rates be set on the basis of a target rate of return (not lower than
61) on a base rate consisting of sverage revalued net assets in operation plus
a provision for working capital. The tariff policy, which includes bi-monthly
adjustments, is based on the need to compensate for the effect of inflation on
UTE's costs. It also permits UTE from time to time to obtain electricity rate
adjustments to account for changes in fuel costs. Up to 1990, a fuel surcharge
was applied to account for changes in fuel expenses* The present average retail
electricity rate, which includes a special tax of 101, is about 8 US centsikWh.
This is in line with the expected long-range marginal cost updated in December



- 52 -
AN 5
Page 4 of 6
1990. UTZ is also implementing a plan of action, agreed with the Bank under loan
2484-UR, to have the largest customers metered with multiple tariff meters to
apply marginal cost principles. Currently, 580 industrial customers (of a total
of 3,000) consuming over 100 MWh per month are metered under this method. As
defined in the binational agreement, CTI's bulk rates for the sale of electricity
to UTZ (2.3 US cents/kWh) are based on its financial requirements, and are
expected to decrease starting from 1992.
Finances
11. Past Financial Performance. UT! has maintained an acceptable financial
performance, although some years UTZ facod financial constraints. Early 1980s
rates of return were low (less than 2.7Z) due to the Goverrment's reluctance to
increase tariffs. In 1989, the rate of return also deteriorated due to a larger
share of thermal generation.   Because of Government's commitment to hydro
projects in the 19808, UT! indebtedness increased significantly. In 1983, the
"Constituci6ln" hydro pswer plant, a project that turned out to be expensive and
poorly financed, was incorporated into UTE's assets, deteriorating UTE'a
liabilities. Despite this, UTE's debt equity ratio has remained at a reasonable
level, about 50150. Since 1984, debt service coverage ratio has been around 1.0,
except in 1989 when fuel costs increased.   Between 1983 through 1989, the
Government assisted UTZ with Central Bank's loans to help finance debt service
payments. During the last decade, investments have been financed on average by
borrowings (30S) and internal sources (702). During the early 1980s, UTE's
investments reached 14.11 of total country investment or 4.72 of GDP. Due to the
decline of hydro investments and neglected distribution facilities and
constraints imposed by the national budget, UTZ's investments declined to 3.12
of GDP at the end of the decade.
12. During 1973, an energy fund was created to f±iiance investments in the
energy sector. This fund is composed of a tax of 1022 and 942 on unleaded and
lead gasoline bills, respectively, of which 252 and 172, respectively, should be
transferred to UTE, although the Government never transferred the corresponding
fund to UT%. As a result, the Government accumulated arrears to UTZ between 1973
and 1991 amounting to about US$ 170 million. Starting in 1992, UTZ will not
receive transfer of funds from the tax on gasoline bill. Additionally, a tax of
102 on electricity bills has been applied since 1973. This tax has been retained
by UTZ, but starting in 1992, it should transfer 502 of collections to the
Tressury.
13.  A major accomplishment of the Government and UTlE's management was the
successful rescheduling of the entity's external debt during the period.
Agreements were reached between UTZ and the Central Bank on the conditions of the
last debt rescheduling in 1991 (maturity: 16 years plus 7 days of grace, interest
rate: Libor + 7li). Additionally, UTE had financial arrears with the Central
Bank due to unpaid debt service on foreign debt, which was paid with the retained
energy fund owed by the government (US$170 million).
14.  Future Financial Performance. During the period 1992-2000, UT!'s future
financial performance is expected to be satisfactory assuming that the average



- 53 -
Pae 5 of 6
electricity price Is maintained in real terms. This would result in a rate of
return around 4.52, a debt service coverage around 1.5, an average self-financing
ratio of 502, and a debt equity ratio of 40160.
Status of Imulementation of BSak Loans
15.   The Power Plant Rehabilitation Project, whose loan  (2622-UR) became
effective in March 1987, has been long delayed on account of assorted procurement
and bureaucratic constraints. The most recent and severe difficulty among these
factors over the past few years was the need to obtain additional external
finance in order to ensure adequate funds for completion of the Gabriel Terra
hydroplant. After a delay of almost two years, the authorities finally succeeded
in gaining French Government credits for this purpose, whose loan agreement was
signed on February 28, 1992. It is expected consequently that more rapid
implementation of the project will ensue. By contrast, the Power Modernization
Project, whose loan (3221-UR) became effective in October 1990, has been
advancing more rapidly and satisfactorily. As a result of UTE's improved project
implementation arrangements (applying the lessons of the earlier project), the
new thermal plant was installed one year earlier than scheduled, and the
institutional development component is on schedule.
D. R30ORN STRATEGY
Sec&gr, Reform
16. The Government recognizes the strategic role of the power sector and its
contribution to the economy. To promote the development of the sector and
improve the quality of services, the Government intends to develop a regulatory
capacity and play an active but subsidiary role in the power generation
expansions for the sector, allowing the participation of private investors.
Accordingly, the Government0s actions are focussing on: (a) maklng institutional
and legal reforms with the objective of separating clearly the State's regulatory
functione from its role as owner of public utilities; (b) facilitating private
sector participation in power generation; (c) facilitating private sector
participation in the power sector in rural areas; and (d) basing pricing policies
for bulk sales on economic principles (marginal cost).
17.  The Government intends to gradually reform the power sector. Specifically,
it is considering to issue a new electricity law removing from UTE a number of
responsibilities regarding policy formulation, power energy planning and
regulation of the sector.  For this purpose, a regulatory agency, under the
Presidency of the Republic, would be set up. The major functions of this agency
would be to: (e) study and propose major sector legislation and regulations for
the power sector; (f) plan and coordinate major sector investments; (g) approve
major sector investments together with OPP; and (h) strengthen the capability of
the sector for dealing with enviroraental matters. The proposed loan includes
technical assistance tot (i) draft regulations governing the power sector,
develop a detailed proposal for the functions and organization of a regulatory
body, propose an action plan to  carry out the reforms, and draft a new
electricity law taking into account future participation of private sector in



- 54 -
fpae 6 of 6
popr genoration around the country, and in goneration, trasuission, and
distribution activitles In rural areasi and (ii) define the methodology and
propose an action plan to set electricity rates based on marginal cost criteria.
18.  Planed new legislation for the electricity sector is cousidered a key
condition to attract greater private sector participation. The legislation would
includes (i) the concession regsime for the private *ector In power ganeration,
with defined service responsibilities and cancellation provisions In cage of poor
service, or other violations of the law and regulations; and (j) clear rules for
the calculation of generation and distribution electricity rates and their
adjtastments to take into consideration inflation, exchange rate variation, or
other cses.
19* The Government is considerinsg the possibility of franchising or sellfng the
Constitucionw hydro power plant (330 MW) after implementing the new regulatory
framework. This should reduce the financial pressure on the company arising from
high debt service. As of December 1991, the net fixed assets of the Constitucifn
bydro power plant amounted to US$628 million, with financial liabilities linked
to these assets representing 692 of UTE's total liabilities. Because UTZ is
Implementing the IDP, the Government is not considering the possibility of
designing a comprehensive privatisation program for the distribution system. The
proposed loan includes technical assistance to help the Government prepare a
detailed plan for the concession or selling of the Constituciln hydro power
plant.



- 55 -
P6
pa I of 2g
=ESONS8 LEANE. StAE. AID -RfIOUAl
1.    BOJcground.  Developing and developed countries are increasingly relying
on reform/privatization of public onterprises (PBo) to achieve improvement, ln
sector performance and to reduce the size of the governmet in the economy. The
Dank's participation in support of these reforms ba been extensive, with 70
londing operations in 67 countries as of December 1991.
2.   Although the lessons from past experience are useful for establishing
general guidelines, the Bank cannot subscribe to a unique design and
implementation blueprint for PB reform because of differences among
countrias/regions concerning: (a) Institutional setup of the PE sector; (b)
extent of public sector involvement In productive activities; and (c) market
dimensions and economic situation. In addition, because most of the projects
already completed by the Bank have taken place in African countries, it is
difficult to extract valuable lessons applicable to Uruguay from project
completion reports (PCRs), although recent exporience in Argentina has been
instructive. However, given the increased importance of PE privatization under
Bank operations, several reports have been prepared by the Bonk analyzing past
experiences and proposing strategies for design and implementation. For this
reason, matters of a general nature have been obtained from such publications,
while more specific aspects have been extracted from Supervision Reports for
projects under implementation in Latin America and the Caribbean.11
3.   Anerience and Lessons Learned.  An overviw of Bank experience on PE
privatization, draws the following lessons: (a) reform/privatization of PEs
should be viewed as part of a broader program of reforms designed to promote a
better allocation of resourcest encourage competition, and develop the capital
market, to avoid potential undesirable results, such as concentration of economic
power; (b) efficiency enhancement considerations should prevail over those of
maximizing short-term government revenues  (c) strong private mangement and
control through concentrated ownership are essential to turn-around troubled PEs;
(d) although designing an overall strategy for divestiture may be a useful step
in clarifying a government's objectives and approach, these preliminaries may
delay the process considerably; (a) for privatization to be successful, policy
responsibilities must be centralized in a strong focal point with autonomy and
ready access to top decision makers, while implementation should be decentralized
to accelerate the process and reduce the workload of the central unit; (f)
1/    See: WB Discussion Paper 119, "Public Enterprise Reform" by Abmed Galal,
1991 WIB Working Psper, "Bank Lending for Divestiture", by Sualta
Kikeri, 1990; LATPS Occasional Paper Series, "State-Owned Enterprise
Reform in Latin America" ,by Antonio Martin Del Campo and Donald
Winkler, 19911 EDI Development Studies, "Public Enterprise Reform - The
Lessons of Experience", by Mary Shirley and John Nellis; Country
Econamics Department, "Privatization: The Lessons of Experience", April
1992; and LATTI, "Report on the Privatization Workshop with LAlEl,
LA2IE, LA3TF and LA4TF", 1992.



- 56 -
M6
Peo 2 of 2
transparency must be ensured for each privatization transaction through: clear
and simple selection criteria for evaluating bids, clearly defined bidding
proceduree,   disclosure   of   information,   well   defined   institutional
responsibilities, and adequate supervision; (g) since social costs of
privatization may be severe, a realistic assessment of interim labor dislocations
and, if necessary, a feasible financing plan for layoffs before sale must be
madet and (h) public confidence, which should be achieved through an information
program showing expected benefits and costs, is essential to ensure support and
sustainability of the program.11
4.     The Bank is currently involved in extensive PR reform/privatization
programs in several countries in LAC, including Mexico, Argentina, Jamaica, and
Venezuela. Developments to date in implementation of these projects show that
results are best when: (a) focus is on specific enterprises under committed
management, either through a project concentrating on few PEs (Argentina) or a
comprehensive PE reform project complemented by specific operations (Mexico); (b)
attention is paid to careful design and implementation of appropriate sector
regulations and to preparation of PEs for reform/privatixation; and (c) the
project is closely supervised. In countries where past reform measures have not
been successful and/or vested interests are powerful (Argentina), the Government
found it necessary to proceed rapidly with privatization of at least one large
PE to demonstrate commitment to reform and gather public support; while in other
countries (Mexico) the program proved successful by employing a gradual approach,
i.e., starting with small firms.
S.    IncorDoratint Lessons Learned. Uruguay has only seven non-financial PEs of
significance, which operate in the basic services sectors, most with significant
monopoly power. The relatively large size of these PEs and the sectors in which
they operate emphasize the need to consider a reform/privatization program
focussina on the 2olicv frameworkc and a detailed reform--strategy with attendant
eMhasis on early startup of a suitable regulatory framework.  Because of the
decline in capital formation and depletion of some capital stock in these
sectors, the Government's conditions presented to potential private buyers of
these Pes are likely to include up-front, large investment requirements to
fulfill public objectives.   The underdeveloped local capital markets and
constraints on raising tariffs to increase cash flow proceeds will limit funds
available to carry these investments, other than equity financing. The proposed
loan would provide adequate funding for preparation and implementation of the
reform. Other lessons learned incorporated in the proposed project design ares
(a) grogect manamement--following the Bank's recommendation, the central
coordinating unit under the presidency (OPP) has been appropriately staffed to
carry-on the reform; in addition the Bank will check throughout the process
continuous commitment to reform by PE management; (b) proiect supervision--
extensive project supervision will be provided during implementation; and (c)
comliance with vroject objectives and desian--project components are well
defined in order to avoid major departures from project design.
2/    "Public Enterprise Reforms The Lessons of Experience", and
"Privatization: The Lessons of Experience", op.cit.



rn-i1-1                '' 11
- - -  --   --  
ra~~~~~~a
rn-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
!~ ~~ *'"   2 
Ftn                        ["ii
E  D 'S    g~~~~~~~~~111



