D)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18056
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
U:RUGUAY
PUBLIC ENTERPRI:SE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
(Loan 3517-0 UR)
June 30, 1998
Poverty Reduction & Economic Management
Latin America & the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - New Uruguayan Peso (UR$)
UR$I = US$0. 1002
US$1 = UR$9.98
(as of December 18, 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANC                 National Postal Administration
ANCAP        -       State Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement Entity
ANP           -     National Port Administration
ANSE          -      National Stevedoring Services Association
ANTEL         -      State Telecommunications Entity
GARE          -      Advisorv Group for State Reform
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
,MERCOSUR   -        "Conimon Market of the South", a customs union of
Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, with
Bolivia and Chile as associate members.
MGAP          -      Ministry of Cattle. Agriculture and Fishing
MTOP          -      Ministry of Transport and Public Works
OPP           -      Office of Planning and Budgeting
OSE           -      State Water and Sewerage Company
PCU           -      Project Coordinating Unit (assumed by GARE)
PERL          -      Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PLUNA         -      State Commercial Aviation Company
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility
UTE           -      State Power Entity
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
8               ~~~~~~Vice President: Shahid Javehd Burki
Director, SMU:- Guillerrno Perrv
Director, CiMU: Myrna Alexcander
Task Manager: Luis-Jos_e Meiia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (PERL)
(Loan 3517-0 UR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paue No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                                                       i-viii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .                                       .........................................................1
A.  Project Objectives ..........................................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives .........................................................2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................................6
D.  Project Sustainability ..........................................................7
E.  Bank Performance ..........................................................7
F.  Borrower Performance .........................................................8
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................8
H.  Future Operations ..........................................................9
I.  Key Lessons Learned ..........................................................9
STATISTICAL TABLES
1.   Summary of Assessments ......................................................... 10
2.  Related Bank Loans .........................................................                                                      12
3.  Project Timetable .........................................................                                                       12
4.  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .........................................................                     12
5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .........................................................                               13
6.  Project Costs .........................................................                                                           18
7.  Project Financing .........................................................                                                       19
8.   Status of Legal Covenants and Conditionally ......................................................... 20
9.  Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................                                               23
APPENDIX
Map of Uruguay
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may rLot otherwise be disclosed without world Bank
authorization.



IMPLEMENTATrION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
PUBLIC ENT7ERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(]Loan 3517-0 UR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(PERL) to Uruguay (Loan 3517-0 UR) in the amount of US$11 million equivalent, which was
approved in September 1992 and made effiective in November of the same year. During
implementation, US$3.2 million were canceled from the amount originally committed by the Bank.
The PERL was closed on June 30, 1997, six months later than originally scheduled. Final
disbursements occurred on November 26, I1997, and the balance of US$1.18 million that remained
undisbursed was canceled. Thus, total disbursements under PERL reached US$6.62 million.
Cofinancing for the Project was provided by two Japanese grants (PHRD) for 318.2 million yen, of
which 245.8 million yen were actually disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by Luis-Jose Mejia, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Department of the, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, assisted by Claudio Pardo (consultant),
and reviewed by Aura Garcia and Alfredo :Dammert.
Preparation of this ICR began during a Bank mission that took place in May/June 1997. It is
based on material in the project files and on perspectives gained during the Bank's extended
involvement in structural reforms and associated activities in Uruguay.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ILJRUGUAY
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3517-0 UR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives. The US$11 million equivalent Public Enterprise
Reform Loan (PERL) to Uruguay was a technical assistance operation geared to support the
Government's public enterprise reforfm/privatization program. The assistance from PERL was
aimed at supporting its initial phase, specifically "To support, the Borrower's efforts to: (a)
improve services and reduce the size of the public sector, specifically the areas of
telecommunications, transport and power; fb) develop sectoral policies and appropriate regulatory
frameworks in such areas; and (c) implemejit restructuring and privatization of PEs." To
implement the Project the Government counted on the Public Enterprise Law and the Port
Reform Law. The first was for the partial privatization of ANTEL and PLUNA and to include
private participation in future power system expansions by UTE. The second permitted private
concessions instead of the direct services provided by ANP and implement the deregulation and
demonopolization of stevedoring services.
ii.    However, the PE reform momentum was lost following the December 1992 referendum
that voided the clauses in the Public Enterprise Law allowing the partial privatization of ANTEL
and the transfer of its management to a private operator. This weakened the reform effort since
the Government concluded that it had marg;inal support among the population, and there was a
retrenchment and slowing down privatization in particular. Cancellations and reductions in
Project components followed -only US$4.23 million out of the $11 million approved for PERL
were used for original components. Of the original aims only the PLUNAprivatization and the
Port Reform achieved their original main objectives. However, other components wee added: a)
the partial privatization of the insurance business, b) the redefinition of the sanitation sector
strategy, c) the improvement in the state postal services, and d) the rationalization of the medical
facilities of the armed forces.
iii.   Achievement of Objectives PERI, had much more narrowly defined objectives than the
ambitious program it supported. It provided funding for a specific set of technical tasks.
Assistance under PERL in many instances wvas provided as expected, even though the
privatizations and restructuring it supported ultimately did not take place -as in the case of
ANTEL, UTE and ANCAP. The slow pace and lack of depth of the PE reform also limited the
ultimate success of PERL. On balance, though, perception is that the Project was marginally
satisfactory in wining its objectives.
iv.   Assistance for the strengthening of OPP was by and large satisfactory with the help of
consultants OPP's Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) contributed much to the design and day-to-
day administration of the Project. The responsibilities of both the OPP and the PCU were
satisfactorily met.



iii
v.    The political difficulties encountered by the telecommunications sector reform did not stop
the assistance for the privatization of ANTEL from being implemented, except for the consulting
necessary to complete its partial sale. Loan funds were also spent in the development of the
regulatory framework. However, the latter remains extremely weak and practically unchanged,
while state-owned ANTEL remains basically the sole provider of telecommunications services,
except for cellular telephony. ANTEL traditionally has shown reasonably good operating
standards and its performance has continued to improve in recent years. However, the test is
whether telecommunications in Uruguay will remain competitive in the medium and long run, in
the increasingly integrated regional context and in this rapidly evolving, technologically and
capital -intensive sector.
vi.   The airlines sector reform component provided assistance for the development of a
regulatory framework and the partial privatization of PLUNA. Legal and technical problems
delayed the actual transfer until 1995. Today, PLUNA operating losses are much smaller and its
financial accounts appear to be heading in the right direction. On the other hand, some 1,700
former PLUNA employees still remain on the public payroll. Moreover, lack of agreement within
the Government on transferring regulatory responsibilities from the Ministry of Defense to MTOP
led to the cancellation of the component on the regulatory framework.
vii.   The support provided to the port sector reform was the most successful of the seven
original components it effectively assisted in the preparation of a new regulatory framework for
Uruguay's port system and allowed the introduction of a successful system of private concessions
for most commercial services. The port reform is still in process. However, good results are
already evident, e.g., the average dollar cost-per-ton of merchandise moved through the
Montevideo Port, was cut by more than half between 1992 and 1997. But there was little
progress adapting and modernizing ANP and MTOP to the supervisory and regulatory functions
required for the privatized, modernized port system.
viii.  The power sector reform component provided assistance for the establishment of a new
sector regulatory framework, and the privatization/franchising of the Constitution power plant.
There was progress initially on the regulatory framework until the attempt by the Lacalle
Administration in 1993-94 to install it via decree failed. The issue was revived by the incoming
Sanguinetti administration, which won approval of a new Electricity Law in July 1997. The
Government now is using the technical work financed under the Project to write the regulations
and norms that give a practical content to the new Law.
ix.   PERL included assistance to reform the MGAP following an action plan prepared by this
Ministry for its restructuring. After an initial attempt to advance on these reforms, a change in the
MGAP team stopped the momentum behind this component, for which the remaining funding
was canceled.
x.    PERL assisted in an assessment of the privatization options for ANCAP's cement and
alcohol plants but the Borrower decided not to carry out the recomnmendations favoring
divestiture of the plants to the private sector. Resistance within ANCAP was crucial. Privatization
is not an option pursued today but 1996 legislation eliminated ANCAP's monopoly in the



iv
production of alcohol. Also, now it can close loss-making operations (it closed its sugar mill). Its
monopoly over oil and natural gas, expires by 2002 under MERCOSUR rules.
xi.   Small-scale privatization was not an option actively pursued by the Borrower following
the December 1992 referendum. Limited a,ssistance was provided to facilitate the concession of
the Montevideo gas distribution system to a private operator (not included originally).
xii.   New Components Added The insurance sector reform was geared to introduce private
competition into the life and general insurance businesses, until then monopolized by the State
Insurance Bank. Legislation enacted in 1993 eliminated the monopoly and created the
Superintendence of Insurance and Re-insurance. Project support was instrumental for the
substantial progress made in putting in place the new regulatory framework. Many new
participants coming into the market, who offer an ever-wider option of services and at
substantiafly low premiums. An assessment of the restructuring options for the State Insurance
Bank was completed in 1996.
xiii.  The reform of the sanitation sector aimed at promoting decentralization and
rationalization of water and sewerage services across the country. Since 1996, OSE can grant
concession to private companies for sanital:ion services in defined regions of the country, including
sewerage services in Montevideo. The Prcject assisted in the definition of the strategy for the
sector, including a separation of the functions of policy formulation, regulation and the provision
of services. However, progress is likely to be slow, as the new regulatory framework requires
new legislation while the total concession of sanitation services appears to be politically infeasible.
xiv.  The 1995 Budget Law transformed the National Postal Administration (ANC), into a
decentralized state agency. Assistance under the Project helped to bring technological
improvements. Also, PERL financed a market study and an economic and financial assessment of
ANC, so as to significantly improve the price setting model for the its different services, and
made possible the formulation of the first 5-year business plan.
xv.   The rationalization of the armed forces health services component assisted with the
decentralization of medical services through the contracting out with regional providers and the
elimination of expensive duplications through more intensive use of specialized diagnosis and
treatment centers. Second, the Project assisted in the consolidation and transfer to the Central
Government of the external debt of these nnedical facilities.
xvi.  Maior Factors Affectins the Proiect. The December 1992 referendum was the central
factor affecting Project implementation. PIE reform and privatization had been at the core of the
economic program of the Lacalle Administration, which was bipartisan support for the approval of
the Public Enterprise and the Port Reform Laws. The referendum took place after initial
problems in obtaining enough voter support. PERL went to the Board with the knowledge, that
the referendum might set back the program, which was identified as a major risk. In hindsight, the
Government defeat by a wide margin had a much more profound political impact than expected
This made the case for PE privatization very hard to sell politically and limited the Government's
degrees of freedom. But the Project moved ahead with the Montevideo Port and PLUNA, which
were perceived by the public as inefficient and money losing enterprises. Also, those sectors with



v
clear reform-minded leadership were able to make considerable more progress than those that did
not (e.g., reforms of ANCAP or MGAP), except for telecommunications.
xvii.  Delays were another important feature of Project execution. Procuring consulting services
was slow and cumbersome and prone to a certain degree of friction with the Bank. This was
owing to the traditional practices and procedures for public sector procurement in Uruguay.
Implementation appears to have suffered also from a lack of continuity in supervision, as well as
change of administration in the middle of Project execution. There was also insufficient
coordination within the Bank.
xviii. Proiect Sustainability. The Project was useful in developing a higher degree of
awareness within the Central Government of the changes taking place in other countries and of
the urgency for PE reform. Also, the Project provided a formula for the Central Government to
deal effectively with PE reform, whenever this is politically desirable and feasible. However,
widening the PE reform will require more effective ways to resolve labor redundancy and
organizational issues, and showing that PE reform brings better, more reliable goods and
services, and at lower prices.
xix.  Bank Performance. The Bank performance was satisfactory but also somewhat uneven.
It was right to have supported the Government's PE reform program with a technical assistance
operation, which provide useful flexibility for the numerous changes required. The Project
allowed the Bank to contribute important and timely advice to the Borrower. Bank supervision of
the Project became irregular over time and, after September 1995 was reduced significantly.
xx.   Borrower Performance. There was a strong will and commitment by the Government
demonstrated during preparation and appraisal but problems arose during implementation. And
the usual paralyses proceeding presidential elections started to early. Then, more time was
needed to put in place a new action plan, which did not give priority to privatization, that was at
the core of the original Project design. Although legal covenant compliance was satisfactory,
some were complied late or partially.
xxi.  Assessment of Outcome. On balance, the Project's overall performance was satisfactory.
Despite the fact that the overall objectives of the Government's PE reform were not met, it made
some headway in redressing the public sector's excessive role in the economy. The project was



vi
instrumental in putting in place the preparatory groundwork required for the broader, longer term
reform effort, which has continued. to progress. Moreover, the unscheduled new components
materially advanced the objectives of PERL, and the Project's accomplishments are largely
sustainable.
xxii. Key Lessons Learmed. The following can be highlighted:
* In countries like Uruguay, a broad political consensus is also needed in addition to the
political conunitment of the Borrower. Government commitment clearly was present in the
case of PERL, but it was not enough. This illustrates one of the reasons that structural reform
in the past in Uruguay has been slower than in many other Latin American countries involving
contentious changes. In addition, the commitment to PE reform has particularly to be present
in the management of PEs being targeted for restructuring or privatization.
*  Borrowers and the Bank tend to overestimate the capacity to absorb technical assistance and
this appears to have been the case with PERL. Even in the context of a project with a sound
administrative structure, there is frequenttly limited capacity, for example, to hire all the
service providers required for a large list of project components, especially with a rigorous
implementation program plan.
* This Project's experience jibes with the indications from other Bank activities in Uruguay that
the process of making sensitive policy changes in countries which depends on the attainment
of broad consensus can be exceedingly slow paced--and may not be greatly influenced by the
choice of lending instruments.



IMPLEMENTATICON COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3517-0 UR)
Part L: Project Ifinplementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives
1. The Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) to Uruguay was a technical assistance operation
geared to support the 1990-94 Lacalle Government's public enterprise reform/privatization
program. Public enterprises (PEs) in Uruguay then accounted for about 12% of GDP, a figure
similar to that in industrial and other Latin America nations. However, their low investment levels
and entrenched monopoly positions often hampered the development of other sectors. Moreover,
their goods and services frequently distorted. prices and were often of poor quality or reliability.
2. At the time of PERL's development, the Government was seeking to extend the process of
public sector reform initiated by the previous administration. It aimed to spur privatization
initiatives and other measures to open competition in sectors dominated by PEs, rather than to
continue pressing for internal management improvements. The Lacalle administration felt that the
public sector was over-dimensioned and outdated. It also foresaw that MERCOSUR, the
customs union that the country was going to join, required the Uruguayan economy to prepare
itself to compete effectively within an expanded marketplace. Therefore, the Government defined
a strategy for reform that encompassed: (i) strengthening of Government's regulatory functions,
separating them from parastatal operations; (ii) delimiting the role of the public sector and
rescinding its monopoly powers in key fields; and (iii) providing for private sector participation in
activities to be demonopolized. PERL assistance was aimed at supporting the initial phase of this
strategy. This concentrated on improving thie attractiveness of Uruguay's regional services in
transportation, telecommunications and power, and enhancing international trade capabilities by
overcoming Montevideo Port's inefficiencies and shortcomings.
3. Project objectives were to: (a) improve services and reduce the size of the public sector,
specifically in telecommunications, transport and power; (b) develop sectoral policies and
appropriate regulatory frameworks in these areas; and (c) implement restructuring and
privatization of PEs. To help effect these changes, the Government won Congressional approval
of the Public Enterprise and Port Reform Laws before the PERL was approved. The first law
made possible the partial privatization of ANTEL, the state-owned telecommunications company,
and of PLUNA, the main airline. It also allowed private participation in future power system
expansions within the state power company's (UTE) network. The second Law allowed
concessions to provide port services, as well as the deregulation and demonopolization of
stevedoring activity. Furthermore, the Government intended to assist small scale privatization and
the demonopolization of alcohol and cement production then under ANCAP, for which the
Government required additional legislative sanction.



2
4.    However, the reform momentum was set back by the December 1992 referendum that
abrogated the public Enterprise Law's sanction of ANTEL's partial privatization and the transfer
of its management to a private operator. The referendum showed that there was only marginal
popular support for privatization of telecommunications. The Government felt that this was also
true with respect to those other major companies, (such as ANCAP and UTE), which had positive
images. Thus, the administration felt its sole option was to slow the pace of privatization. This
was the main factor behind the reduction made in some of the project components, ultimately
resulting in only US$4.2 million of the $11 million Loan funds being used for them. Of the main
PE reform targets, only the PLUNAprivatization and Port reform were achieved. Fortunately,
PERL's flexibility permitted some redirection of the Loan funds to support other reform efforts,
which were added to the project scope. These included the partial privatization of the insurance
business and the redefinition of the sanitation sector strategy. The revisions also provided help for
the restructuring and rationalization of state postal services and the armed forces' medical
facilities. In total, US$2.4 million was used for these new items.,
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    PERL had much more narrowly defined objectives than the ambitious reform program it
supported. Disbursements were not dependent on the implementation of policy actions. Rather,
the Project provided funding for specific tasks designed to advance Government efforts in the
definition and implementation of its PE reforms. (PERL's objectives and their outcomes are
shown in Table 5). Thus at the end, the planned assistance was provided but the privatizations
and restructuring this aimed to help ultimately accomplish did not take place. This was the case
with ANTEL, UTE and ANCAP, the three lead cases in the reform program. For example,
before the referendum, significant amounts of PERL funds and associated Japanese grants were
spent in effectively bringing ANTEL almost to the point of sale.
6.    The institutional development component that provided assistance for the strengthening of
the Planning and BudRetinz Office (OPP) was by and large satisfactory. Its project coordinating
unit (known by its Spanish acronym "GARE") contributed much to the design and day-to-day
administration of the Project, for which it also developed and maintained a useful information
system. GARE also processed 79 contracts to secure consulting services for the implementation
of the different components.
7.    Telecommunications. An analysis of ANTEL and the development of proposals for sector
restructuring were carried out successfully prior to Board presentation. The other components
called for assistance for the establishment and staff training of a telecommunications regulatory
authority and Government support on the privatization transaction. All except advisory services
on the actual sale of ANTEL were provided. However, the sector regulatory framework remains
extremely weak and practically unchanged. And ANTEL is still the sole provider of
telecommunications services save for a small cellular competitor. To be sure, ANTEL traditionally
has shown reasonably good operation by Latin American- standards, having one of the highest
coverage ratios in the continent. This might appear to be acceptable, and ANTEL's performance
has continued to improve. But, beyond the Project's objectives, Uruguay's telecommunications
have to remain competitive in the medium and long run in the now more demanding regional
market. Moreover, there is a technological revolution in this field across the world which is
highly demanding . The prospects for the future also are clouded by the continued weaknesses in
the regulatory environment in Uruguay and the difficulties entailed in overcoming them.
Therefore, there remains considerable scope for further sector improvement.



3
8.    Airlines reformn. Besides the development of a sector regulatory framework and the
adoption of policies to stimulate competition, the Project included resources for preparing the
way for privatization of PLUNAand transferring its control to a private operator. PLUNAwas a
big money loser and it was difficult to justify its continued presence in the public sector.
Fortunately, its transfer to the private sector was not affected by the referendum and its
privatization actions continued. Following a, fruitless first attempt, the objective of selling 51% of
PLUNA was achieved when a group of private operators took over the company after winning a
second bidding process -in which they were the only participants. (The Bank distanced itself
from this transaction since it did not agree with the scheme.) However, completion of the sale
took much longer than scheduled as legal and technical problems delayed the transfer until 1995.
Also, former PLUNA employees were given the option to stay or return to the public services.
Today, PLUNA's operating losses are much smaller and its financial accounts appear to be
heading in the right direction. On this account, and considering the airline's limited commercial
attractiveness, the privatization of PLUNA can be considered a success. However, the cost of
maintaining some 1,700 former PLUNA employees on Government's payroll continues to impose
a major public burden. Another shortcominlg was the lack of agreement within the Government
for transferring regulatory responsibilities from the Ministry of Defense to MTOP, which led to
the cancellation of this sub-component. In addition, sector regulations still retain many norms that
were supposed to be changed by the Project, which the Bank hoped to see form the basis of a new
"open skies" policy framework.
9.    Port reform was the most successful component. The Project effectively assisted in the
preparation of a new regulatory framework ifor the port system and facilitated the introduction of
a successful system of private concessions for most commercial services. In fact, the complex
port reform process is still underway but there already are good results. The main Montevideo
Port has shown substantial, broad-based peiformance improvements, e.g., the average dollar
cost-per-ton of merchandise moved through it was cut by more than half between 1992 and
1997. This was the result of both a sharp increase in the tonnage handled and a significant
reduction in the average stay of ships in the jport, derived from substantial reductions in system
personnel and labor productivity increases. The initial restructuring of Uruguay's port agency,
ANP, and the demonopolization and privatization of cargo and stevedoring services were crucial
in this respect. The Project was instrumental also in providing the necessary technical expertise to
ANP for the design and implementation of the reforms put in place. On the other hand, more
progress should have taken place in the modernization of the administrative structures and the
functional organizations of ANP and the Transport Ministry (MTOP). This is essential to adapt
fully these two entities to the needs of the reformed system, in particular the supervisory and
regulatory functions required now that many activities have been privatized. In the case of ANP, a
first downsizing and reorganization took place (supported by the Transport I Project Loan 3021)
at the beginning of the port reform. However, these did not enable it to operate optimally within
the new environment. Thus, the modernization of ANP and MTOP remnains a priority on the
sector's developmental agenda. The same is true of the divestiture of some additional services to
private operators, which did not advance beyond the assessment stage under the Project.
10.   Power reform ambitiously aimed at increasing private sector participation in generation,
transmission and distribution activities. Its first component--providing assistance for the
establishment of a new regulatory frameworik--was essential to the process. The second provided
training for Government and UTE officials ivolved in the reform and the new framework.



4
The third component was designed to assist in the preparation and execution of the
privatization/franchising plan to be adopted by UTE.
11.   There was initial progress in the formulation of the new regulatory framework. PERL and
an associated Japanese grant provided the basic elements for a first attempt by the Lacalle
Administration in 1993-1994 to approve the framework via presidential decree. However,
political difficulties, opposition from within the sector and legal impediments aborted these efforts.
This led to the cancellation of most of the funds allocated for this component. However, the issue
of sector power reform was revived by the successor Sanguinetti Administration which presented
a new Electricity Law to Congress. This departed somewhat from the original Project intent in
being less ambitious about the envisaged private sector role. After some difficulties, the Law was
finally approved in July 1997 and incorporated many of the original concepts that had been
supported by the Bank. The Government now is using the technical work performed earlier under
the Project to write the regulations and norms to effect the Law, moving in line with PERL goals.
And under the Power Modernization Loan (Loan 3949), the Bank can further assist the Borrower
on some of the outstanding items on the PERL agenda. Unfortunately, on the issue of greater
private involvement in the sector, there is still a great deal of resistance to the privatization of
UTJE plants. However, more private involvement is expected in future investments in generation
and transmission, particularly in those projects linked to MERCOSUR. Further, although the new
regulatory framework is expected to be helpful, the inefficiencies in a sector dominated by a state
company are likely to keep electricity rates above those in neighboring countries. The slow
reform and transformation of the power sector, which frustrated the goals of the Project, could
contmue to hurt the competitiveness of the economy in the future ,as well as the sector 's
possibilities of smooth integration within the regional market.
12.   PERL included funding to assist the Government reform the Agriculture Ministry
^aIGAP). Before PERL's approval, the Ministry had prepared a diagnosis and an action plan for
its redimensioning and streamlining, including divestiture to the private sector of extension
services. Unfortunately, after an initial attempt to advance these reforms, a change in the MGAP
team stopped the momentum behind this plan which was never regained,. Consequently, most of
the PERL funds and associated Japanese grants allocated to this component were canceled.
13.   PERL also called for a diagnosis and assessment of the privatization options for ANCAP's
cement and alcohol plants. Although the diagnosis was successfully completed, the Borrower
decided not to carry out the recommendations of the study, which favored the divestiture of the
plants to the private sector, because of ANCAP's opposition. However, there has recently been
some progress in the direction expected under the Project. Legislation was enacted in 1996 to
eliminate ANCAP's monopoly in alcohol production. Also, the company can now enter into joint
ventures with private partners for production of some alcoholic beverages, and close its loss-
making operations (indeed, ANCAP already closed its sugar mill). Similarly, its monopoly over
the oil and natural gas business must expire by year 2002 in line with the MERCOSUIR pacts.
14.   No funding was actually used for the activities set out for the small-scale privatization
component (local airports. ambulance services. etc.) after the referendum. However, a limited
amount of PERL resources were used to assist in the concession of the Montevideo gas
distribution system to a private operator, which was not included in the original contents of the
Project.



5
15.   Several new components were added during the execution stage in line with the main
objectives of the Project, for which 36% of E'ERL disbursements were made. This assistance
concentrated on reforms of the insurance and sanitation sectors; improvement of postal services,
and the rationalization of the armed forces mledical services.
16.   The insurance sector reform scheme was geared to introduce private sector competition in
the life and general insurance businesses monopolized by the State Insurance Bank. New 1993
legislation eliminated this monopoly and created the Superintendents of Insurance and Re-
insurance, the new regulatory body. The Project concentrated on establishing its new framework,
including the provision of training for the Superintendent's management and staff. Significant
progress was made in the implementation of the new framework. Now there is real private
competition in the provision of insurance services and re-insurance, with many new participants
continuing to come into the market. They tend to offer an ever wider option of services at lower
cost than before. The pressure is thus now on restructuring the State Bank in order to effectively
compete, for which an assessment was prepared under PERL. This was completed as scheduled
in April 1996 and consulting services were secured to implement its recommendations. It is too
early to say whether these efforts will be successful in restoring long-term viability to this state
company, which requires substantial gains in labor productivity and major improvements in
management information systems and practices.
17.   The assistance provided to the reform of the sanitation sector aimed at promoting
decentralization and rationalization of water and sewerage services, which (save for water for
Montevideo), are provided by OSE, a state company. Since 1996, OSE was authorized to
concession private companies for sanitation services in defined regions, including sewerage
services in Montevideo. OSE lacked enough funds to carry out the investments needed to satisfy
demand, was overstaffed and had high wateir losses and rates. It was expected that the
introduction of a system of concessions would induce competition and improve the overall
efficiency of the sector. For the decentralization and rationalization of sanitation services, it was
necessary to define a new sector strategy, including separation of policy formulation, regulation
and the provision of services.
18. PERL assistance was arranged to obtain consultants to assess the situation and propose
options for the institutional reform. The first reports covering analysis of the sector condition and
reform options were considered unsatisfactory. New consultants were then hired to revise these
studies and, mostly, to prepare new recomffmendations. This effort is now completed and its
results are being reviewed. The Bank is now assessing a new water sector reform project to
further the process, which is likely to be slow because of the need for more new legislation.
Meanwhile, concessions in Maldonado, Punta del Este and Costa del Sol are expected to be under
private management soon, which should provide good tests of the potential benefits to be derived
from private services.
19.   The process to improve state postal services started with 1995 legislation, which
transformed the National Postal Administraltion (ANC), into a decentralized state agency with
independent financial accountability. The effort under PERL, to improve its financial condition
and services, began late during project implementation but there has already been healthy
progress made. Technological improvement were introduced into ANC operations, particularly



6
in the area of tracking and tracing postal pieces., e.g., bar codes are now used for about 70% of
the pieces handled. Also, PERL financed a market study and an economic and financial
assessment of ANC in order to improve the price setting model for the different services offered,
as well as the formulation of its first 5-year business plan. Further efforts are aimed at
implementing this plan so as to achieve a greater degree of decentralization and autonomy for
ANC, and at least a balance in ANC's financial accounts. To further improve its efficiency would
require a significant retrenchment in staff and in-depth organizational restructuring to adapt the
organization to the new technological realities. Another important issue is the need to enhance
the regulatory framework for the sector.
20.   The Borrower also requested help during the project period for rationalization of the armed
forces health services. The goals were to consolidate hospital and other medical facilities'
services, and to resolve their debt overhang to normalize their finances. An assessment
recommended the decentralization of services by contracting out services to sundry providers,
elimination of expensive duplication and more intensive use of specialized diagnosis and treatment
centers. Many of these recommendations were implemented with important cost reductions and
improvements in efficiency. The Project also assisted in the assessment, consolidation and transfer
to the Central Government of the external debt of these medical facilities, which has brought
about more financial transparency and predictability for budgeting purposes. It resulted in an improved
cash flow for these facilities, as well.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
21.   The central factor that affected project implementation was the 1992 referendum.,
compounded by the Lacalle Government's loss of power after its defeat in the simultaneous
midterm elections. Their adverse effects almost entirely undermined the momentum for public
enterprise reform. In this connection, PERL went to the Board after passage of the Public
Enterprise and Port Reform Laws but before the referendum took place. The President's Report
signaled the possibility of its damaging the privatization movement as one of the major project
risks. However, it stated that the Government and the Bank felt that an adverse judgment in the
referendum would only affect the proposed ANTEL transaction. It also argued that it was
worthwhile to proceed, notwithstanding these risks, precisely in order to strengthen the
Government's reform capability. In the event though, the Government's defeat substantially
reduced its degrees of freedom to undertake PE reforn and privatization. The process was
thereby considerably reduced in scope and depth. However, it continued on track for Montevideo
Port and PLUNA, and later the reforn of the insurance sector also made considerable progress.
In the process incidentally (apart from what transpired re: ANTEL), the greatest successes were
accomplished by the institutions whose leaders were most committed to reform, unlike those in
ANCAP and MGAP.
22.   Implementation delays, even for those components less affected by the adverse political
climate, also marked project execution. The underlying factors were generally subject to
government control. In particular, the process of procuring consulting services was slow and
subject to cumbersome administrative procedures and prone to delays (as well as the cause of
some friction with the Bank.). These reflect the traditional practices and procedures for public
sector procurement in Uruguay, which badly need to be revised for improved efficiency and
transparency.



7
23.   Numerous Project components required substantial coordination between GARE and the
different executing agencies. Project implementation and supervision accordingly were hampered
by the many staff changes that took place in OPP and GARE, as well as the 1995 change of
administration and the subsequent lag in putting new officials in place. Sadly, the Project also
suffered from inadequate coordination among the Bank's different units involved in sectoral work
in Uruguay, some of which preferred other priorities than the Project's. On these and other
counts, the Project lost some of its original focus over its term. Towards the conclusion, Loan
3517 resources were partly used to provide a ready source of funding for other constructive
Government ventures.
D. Project Sustainability
24.   Project sustainability is likely. Thei-e is little reason to expect the Uruguayan state to again
become the main actor and service provider in the sectors which PERL helped transform.
Moreover, the Project created greater appreciation within the Central Government of the public
enterprise reform and privatization changes taking place in other countries, which contributed to
GARE's continuing activity to advance related measures, e.g. road concessions. This too favors
the prospects of sustainability of the Project's accomplishments.
25.   The Project also provided a serviceable formula and instruments for the Central
Government to deal effectively with PE reform. OPP is now in a better position to maintain a
technical dialogue for change with the PEs and other public sector entities. This is particularly
relevant for the needed development in Uruguay of more robust, comprehensive regulatory
frameworks. And the Project successfully created an awareness at the highest levels of the need
to accelerate progress on this front, particularly for telecommunications, aviation, energy, the port
system and the insurance sector.
26.   This is quite important as Uruguay's PE reforms lag behind those in other countries in the
region and much remains to be done. Accordingly, as this experience indicates, further advances
on these lines will depend to an important degree on the Government's ability to achieve and
maintain a much broader and deeper consensus for PE reform than that it had under the Project.
To this end, more effective ways will have to be found to resolve labor redundancy and
organizational issues that normally are part of comprehensive PE reforms. The public has to be
convinced that PE reform not only brings better and more reliable goods and services, but also
that it will benefit directly from ensuing eifficiency gains. Only in this fashion can Uruguay's
leaders and shapers of influence persuade this somewhat tradition-bound population of the need
for basic changes in their "social contract," which too long relied on a dominant public sector.
E. Bank Performance
27.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory but also somewhat uneven. It was right in
designing the Project to support the Government's program through a technical assistance
operation which provided the considerable flexibility that proved necessary. It was also
appropriately constructed to meet the coIrectly defined project risks. Further, the Bank
contributed important and timely advice to the Borrower on the PE reform program issues,
consistent with the Bank's country strategy.



8
28.   The fact that the PE reform program was well advanced prior to Board approval was
partly due to the Bank's active preparatory support. As noted, much progress had been made
towards preparing the privatization of ANTEL and PLUNA, thanks to the PPF and Japanese
Grant as well as some 17 staff/weeks of Bank work and broad range of expertise provided. To
be sure, there was an underestimate during appraisal of the impact on the reform program of a
conceivable negative referendum vote --although few foresaw the large opposition to ANTEL's
privatization (some 72%). But then again, the Project was well advanced towards approval by the
time it was confirmed that the referendum was to take place. At that point, the Bank feared that
postponing the scheduled loan would send an undesirable signal.
:'9. Conversely, it was unfortunate to have had different segments of the Bank failing to
.oordinate their positions on public sector reforrm in Uruguay. Furthermore, loan
3uperFvision lacked continuity, especially after the Bank grew increasingly concerned over
tne implementation delays. When the Sanguinetti Administration came into office, the new
authorities confirmed their desire to proceed with PE reform. Subsequently though, the
delays in project execution recurred, the new team's approach departed from the original
intent, and so Bank supervision was reduced significantly in late 1995.
F. Borrower Performance
30.   The Lacalle Government exhibited strong will and comrnitment in undertaking PE reform
as a central element in its overall program. It was particularly commendable for an administration
which had limited recent executive experience and only minority legislative power to tackle such a
sensitive issue: rationalizing an overstaffed, often inefficient public admninistration excessively
shielded by constitutional guarantees. Moreover, even after the referendum and towards the end
of its term-, the administration retained some zeal in the effort: it began examnining the even
trickier issue of civil service reform. However, the Government's performance during project
implementation was less satisfactory. Not all the difficulties experienced were political or beyond
the scope of the Borrower (e.g., delays and disputes with the Bank on procuring consultants).
The administration moreover permitted a paralysis in project activity to set in much too soon
before the national elections midway in the project period. The new Government took
considerable time to develop a new action plan, partly because of the limited parameters set by the
1992 referendum's defeat and the appreciation of possible fuirther political costs. Understandably
as well, it opted for a more gradual pace. On the other hand, its approach gave less priority to
privatization that was at the core of the original Project design, electing instead to promote
concessions and curb PE monopoly powers. Finally, GARE performed its role responsibly,
including helping to ensure reasonable satisfaction with the legal covenants, although some were
ffilfilled belatedly or only partially (Table 8).
G. Assessment of Outcome
3 1.   PERL's overall perfornance was satisfactory despite the fact that the Project failed to
accomplish all its objectives. The Project contributed some headway towards correcting the
previous imbalance between the private and public sectors' roles in the economy. It was
instrumental in providing the groundwork for the implementation of the PE reform program even
where the envisaged privatization measures were aborted. And where it was possible to proceed
as planned, the results were--and still are--very creditable. The performance gains at Montevideo
Port and initial PLUNA rationalization accomplishments are just two of these. In addition, there



9
were efficiency improvements made in some PEs, which stemmed directly from the technical
support and other assistance provided under loan 3517. These included a signigicant drop in the
cost of telephone services, along with UIJE's and other PEs' increased atteniveness to service
delivery effectiveness and cost accountirng quality. In addition, the Project pioneered in the
devlopment of more independent and appropriate Government regulatory machinery which,
despite its shortcomings, created a foothold for future enhancement. Moreover, the new
components added the Project led to unanticipated, quite positive improvements in a broader
range of government functions than the original Project design entailed. Unfortunately however,
no approach was made to resolve the basic problem of labor redundancy which still burdens the
economy..
H. Future Operations
32. The changes made remain in place. And the authorities continue to pursue further public
enterprise reforms and encouragement of more private enterprise participation, as evidenced in the
recent loan to UTE. A proposed follow-up lending operation with OSE is geared to implement
institutional improvement measures there, following on the diagnosis of the water and sewerage
entity carried out under PERL. In additon, Bank assisstance in 1997 enabled a group of
Government officials and other key Uruguayans to visit New Zealand for a first hand apperciation
of that country's pioneering changes in the public sector. In tandem with these activities, the
Government has obtained IDB support for reforming the central administration civil service
reform, departing from the studies carried out under past IBRD assistance. Currently however,
there are no plans for any new MIRD operation related to the findings of that mission.
I. Key Lessons Learned
33. Broad popular consensus is needed in addition to Borrowers' political commitment
Especially in such demoracies as Uruguay, where a broad consensus is essential to move forward
on controversial economic issues, Government political commitment alone is insufficent. This is
one of the reasons why structural reform is Uruguay has been slower than in most other counties
in the region. Consequently, the need to make a strong case for PE reform and to educate the
public on its benefits should be explicitly addressed in any project design that involves such
controversial issues as privatizations. In addition, the commitment to these reforms has to be
particularly present in the management of the PE that is proposed to be restructured or privatized
(ref. para. 21).
34. Borrowers and the Bank tend to overestimate the capacity to absorb technical assistance.
Even in a project with a sound administrative structure, there is often limited capacity, for
example, to hire in a short period all the service providers required for a large list of activities,
especially within a demanding Implementation Program Plan. Also, there are many fractions in a
system trying to coordinate the simultaneous implementation of a long list of tasks, particularly
when procurement issues tend to be complex and hiring mechanisms cumbersome. Unfortunately,
transactional costs and administrative risks tend to be overlooked at the time of project design, so
they end up being solve on an ad-hoc basis during implementation. These are particularly critical
elements to be addresed in designing technical assistance operations, which are management
intensive.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3517-0 UR)
Part II.: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial    Partial       Ne2ligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                              E]              5             E
Sector Policies                5            E                              5
Financial Objectives           [             S             [J             IA
Institutional Development     [                            5               5
Physical Objectives           [              5              5
Poverty Reduction              51]                         5 EA
Gender Issues                  5            E              [ ]
Other Social Objectives        5             5              ]             IA
Environmental Objectives       5             5             5              IA
Public Sector Management       5            IA             5               5
Private Sector Development     5                           [3              5
Other (specify)                5             5             5              IA
B. Proiect Sustainability        Likely              Unlikelv              Uncertain
6")                   6")                   6")
IA                    O                     5



11
(Continued)
C. Bank Performance              Hlhly
satisfactor      Satisfactory            Deficient
(1)                  (1)                   (/)
Identification                 D                                          (0
Preparation Assistance        [] J
Appraisal                                                                 (J
Supervision                    Q                                          (J
D. Borrower Perfonnance                 HiahbI
siatisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
(1 )         (1)           (1)
Implementation                                      E l
Covenant Compliance                                 E l
Preparation                            0            E             0
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly
satisfat -r Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(0       )   (21            0)            (0)
O                             



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                       Purpose                Amt           Yearof
_____________I____________________  (US$ M)  Approvalk  Status FY98
Precedng Operations
1798-UR              Montevideo Port Project          50.0         1980          Closed
2836-UR             SAL I (structural adjustment)     80.0         1987          Closed
2843-UTR            TAL I (technical assistance)      1.0          1987          Closed
2921-UR             Water Supply Rehabilitation       22.3         1988         Disbursing
3081-IR            SAL II (strutal adjustment)       140.0         1989          Closed
3082-UR           Second Technical Assistant Loan     6.5          1989          Closed
3021-UR                 Transport Project I           80.8         1989        Closing Date
12/31/97
3221-UR                Power Modernization            62.5         1990        Closing Date
12/31197
3323-UR           Support of Extemal Debt & Debt      65.0         1991          Closed
l ______________               Service Reduction
Subse quent 0perations
3949-UR              Power Transmission and           125          1997         Disbursing
Distribution.                                     ,
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned       Actual Date/     or
Duration
Identification (Initial Executive                    October 1991
Project Summary)
Preparation                                           18 months
Appraisal                                            May 1992
Negotiations                                         July 1992
Board Presentation                                   September 1992
Signing                                              September 1992
Effectiveness                   October 1992         November 1992
Loan closing                    December 1996        June 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY93    [   FY94         FY95         FY96        FY97       FY98-
Appraisal estimate            4.06   1     7.0          9.5          11.0         --        6.62
Actual                       2.59          3.57         4.49         5.54        6.03              I
Actualas%ofestimate          65%           51%          47%/o        50%
* Andi..edtamoutof1.18   waacanceletlosing.
D Date & amount of 1ot cancellton: June 1994 -US$1.5 M                                             I
Date af sanot ofd2ad b atmen n: Septmbe 2 1995 - USS7.7 M
|Date of final dibu"_mt Novmbr26, 199.7.



13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Main Objectives                                          Expected Output                                     Outcome
Part A: Strengthening the oPP        A PCU staffed for the duration the Project, that: (i)    GARE effectively carried out the functions of the PCU.
participates in the design and implementation of the   It processed 79 contracts with local (42) and foreign
A.l A unit to assist in the design and      reform activities; (ii) manages the hiring of  consultants that were financed.
administration of the PE reform.       consultants; and (iii) implement the Project.
A2  Marketing campaigns of the privatization  (i) presentations in main international financial  (i) no funds were used for this purpose after the
program and seminars and visits to other  centers promoting the PE reform program and the  Goverment abandoned privatization of ANTEL and
countries.                             invwstment opportunities to foreign investors in state  some power generation plants; (ii) a small sum was
companies to be privatized or franchised; (ii) visits to  used, mostly to finance a fact-finding mission abroad
relevant countries and attendance to seminars by  (which met the desired) educational goal and seminars
Government and PE representatives involved in PE    on the Port component
reform and privatization.
Part B: Telecommnications Sector Reform
B i 'ys   Qf    I AX'r -x88 ,L-        An assessment covering: (i) an analysis of the  These tasks were carried out as scheduled and provided
telecommunications sector and proposals for  telecommunication sector, including ANTEL's  a good basis for the envisaged actions.
their unr 4ng.                         financial, legal, technical and organizational aspects;
(Ji) the market demand and pricing environment; (iii)
a market valuation of ANTEL; (iv) options for the
sector resrfcturing; (v) recommendations for
ANTEL's privatization; and (vi) a proposal for a
new legal and reglatory framework.
B.2  Create, organize and train staff of the  (i) the regulations applicable to the reformed  Reduction of the design for a new regulatory
telecommunications regulatory authority.    telecommunications sector; and (ii) the creation and   framework. However, the latter telecommunications
development of the telecommunications regulatory    sector remains weak. Furthermore, the
authority.                                    recommendatons of the study for a new sector strategic
plan have had litde impact on ANTEL's business
practicos.
B.3  Assisting in the partial privatization of  (i) issuance of tender documents;          (i) tender documents were prepared according to
ANTEL.                                 (ii) financial advisors design the plan for the partial   schedule; (ii) the sale of ANTEL did not proceed after
sale of ANTEL, promote it and carry out the   the 1992 referendum voided the authorization in the
operation to its successful closure.          Public Enterprises Law.



14
1. Main Objectives                                           Expected Output                                      Outcome
Part C: Airlines Sector Reform
C.1 Assistance for the creation of an appropriate    A revised Aviation Code to facilitate private sector    This sub-component was canceled, for lack of consensus
regulatory framework for the sector and  participation.                                 within Govermment on a new policy regime.
adoption of policies for stimulating
competition within the airlines sector.
C.2  Development of the financial informiation  (i) audited financial statements for PLUNA for the    These tasks were providing useful data for the 1995
necessary to support the privatization of  1989-91 period; (ii) a valuation of its fixed assets;    sales transaction.
PLUNA.                                  and (iii) an assessment of PLUNA's market value.
C.3  Assistance in the process of the partial sale   (i) preparation of bidding documents for the partial    The products helped privatize PLUNA and its
of PLUNA.                               sale of PLUNA; (ii) establishment of contacts with    management transfer to the private sector. Afier a
potential buyers of PLUNA shares; (iii)         second bidding PLUNA's Board accepted the only offer
implementation and closing of the sale of equity  in 1994; legal and technical problems delayed the sale
participation's; and (iv) provision of legal counsel to  until 1995. There was no active Bank assistance for the
PLUNA in the implementation of its privatization.    second bidding.
Part D: Port Sector Reform
D. 1  Preparation of the new regulatory framework  The Port Reform Advisory Commission has: (i)  By and large, all these topics were addressed as planed
for the port system to increase efficiency and  prepared the regulatory framework for the entire port  and a new regulatory framework was put in place under
allow private enterprise participation  system, (ii) defined the technical and economic  the Transport Project I (Loan 3021-UR),. This
through concession of core port services.  requirements for private enterprises interested in  facilitated the introduction of private concessions for
obtaining concessions, permits, authorizations and  port services, and contributed to Montevideo Port
contracts to provide port services; (iii) analyzed the   productivity hikes.
viability of transferrng ANP's ship repair and port
equipment repair and maintenance facilities to the
private sector; (iv) analyzed the options for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the
state dredging fleet; (v) prepared technical and
administrative guidelines for port administration and
captaincies, in accordance with the new Port Law;
and (vi) monitored other technical assistance related
to the port sector reform.
D.3 Assistance in the optimization of port services  (i) Review and improvement of the cargo-handling    This objective was achieved successfully. Further
and operations.                         methods; and (ii) new regulations and procedures to   actions under implementation that will promote
conduct, coordinate and supervise port operations  additional efficiency gains would be: (i) the concession
and related activities.                        of the container terminal to; and (ii) the contracting out
with the private sector of dredging services.



15
L Main Objectives                                           Expected Output                                       Outcome
D.4 Provision of consulting services to assist in the  (i) divestiture by ANP's of non-commercial port  (i) Little progress in this front with further assessments,
divestiture of additional port services and the  activities; and (ii) seminars and practical training  particularly on the future of dredging services, still
training of staff on port operations.   provided to the staff of the newly created port  pending; and (ii) this sub-component was not
captaincies.                                   implemented.
Part E: Power Sector Reform
E.1  Establishing a new regulatory framework for  (i) the body of regulations for the reformed sector  All these actions were delayed until the new Electricity
the sector to increase private sector   and the development of the functions and        Law was enacted in July 1997. Govenment is now
participation in power generation,      organization of the new power regulatory authority;   using the technical work performed to write the
transmission and distribution.          (ii) a new power sector decreeulaw; and (iii)   Regulations required to implement the new Law.
definition of a methodology and an action plan for
setting electricity rates based on margina cost
criteria.
E.2  Training government officials and UTE staff  (i) trained government officials for assigment to  This activity was canceled because of the delays in the
on the new regulatory frameWork and thc  regulato.r rcsponsibilitie ( iii) semnars given on  definition and implementation of the new regulatory
reform process.                         power sector regulation and reform; (iii) trained  framework.
UTE's management and high level staff on the new
law and regulations; and (iv) purchasing of training
equipment and materials.
E.3  Prfeaation of a plan for privatizing or  Plans for privatizing/franchising UTE's Constitution   The Borrower canceled this activity as it desisted from
franchising selected UTE power generatimn   power generation and other plants.          privatizing/franchising this bydro-power plant
platsu. I



16
1. Main Objectives                                         Expected Output                                     Outcome
Part F: Reform of the MGAP
F.1  Efforts to divest and reorganize activities    (i) establishment of a unit to carry out reorganization  After an initial attempt to carry out these tasks., this sub-
within MGAP.                           and divestitures activities within MGAP; (ii) studies  component was canceled by the Borrower due to lack of
showing the options open to MGAP, including   acceptance and change in priorities. As a result, most of
privatization, transfer to other entities or closing of   the budgeted funding from PERL and a Japanese grant
services being offered; (iii) the implementation of  were canceled. Partial reform in this sector has
such studies; and (iv) an action plan for the  continued -although supported by finacing from other
reorganization of MGAP after divesting MGAP of a   sources.
number of its functions.
Part G: ANCAP's Cement and Alcohol Plants
G. 1  Diagnosis of the two plants and options for   Diagnosis of the cement and alcohol plants consisting  The diagnostic work was performed but the Borrower
their privatization.                   of: (i) an analysis of their competitiveness; (ii) a  decided not to carry out the recommendations. Thus,
financial analysis and assets valuation; and (iii)  divestiture of ANCAP's cement and alcohol plants to
options for their privatization.             the private sector is not being considered at this time.
Second, the de-monopolization of cement and alcohol But its alcohol production monopoly recently was
activities and the streamlining of ANCAP's    rescinded, permitting private participation in the
production lines based on the recommendation  industry.
derived from the diagnosis made.
Part H: Small Scale Privatization
H. 1  Support of small scale privatization  Privatization of local airports, hospital services, oil   Small-scale privatization was not actively pursued by
schemes.                              tankers and the Govenment Printing Office.     the Borrower during Project implementation. However,
limited funding was used to facilitate the private
concession of Montevideo's gas distribution system, and
1991-92 auditing of the financial statements of the Gas
Co.
II. New Activities Added
Expected Output                                    Outcome
Insurance Sector Reform
Reform of the sector, the elimination of the  (i) Establishment of a regulatory framework for the   (i) Required regulations are now in place and there is an
monopoly held by the State Insurance Bank,   insurance sector; (ii) creation of a Superintendent of  active private completion presence in insurance and
and promoting private sector competition in the  Insurance and Re-insurance; and (iii) an audit of on   business; (ii) the Superintendent is now operative; and
provision of insurance services.        the State Insurance Bank, as a first effort towards its  (iii) an initial assessment with recommendations to
reform.                                      improve management practices and efficiency at the



17
I. Main Objectives                                            Expected Output                                      Outcome
State Insurance Bank was finalized as scheduled. Its
implementation is pending.
Sanitation Sector Reform
Decentralization and rationalization of water   (i) Definition of a strategy for the sanitation sector   (i) Work done provided an adequate diagnosis of the
and sewerage services provided by OSE across  and OSE, including a separation of the functions of   sector, but it was unsatisfactory in the definition of a
the cotmtry.                               sectoral policy formulation, regulation and the  strategy, so the pace of reform slowed down: (ii) other
provision of services; (ii) design of a regulatory  consultants retook the task and prepared a preliminaty
framework for the water and sewerage sectors; and   proposal for the regulatory framework, which remains to
(iii) establishment and strengthening of the new  be translated into a formal/legal framework; and (iii) a
regulatory agency for the sanitation sector.   regulatory agency is yet to developed.
Improvement in State Postal Services
Improving the performance of the National  (i) the state postal service improved technologically,  There was progress on all three tasks but, this activity
Postal Administration                     in particular in the area of tracking and tracing  started late in the implementation of PERL and work still
postal pieces, and with a broader line of products;    remains to be done in the three areas.
(ii) a market study and an economic and financial
assessment of the state postal service that
significantly improves the price setting modei for
postal services; and (iii) a 5-year business plan
aimed at achieving decentralization and greater
autonomy of state postal services and at least a
break-even administration in the medium term.
Rationalization of the Armed Forces Health
Services                    (i) Rationalization and consolidation of the health    (i) The retionalization is implemented produced gains in
Better delivery and efficiency of the health  services offered by hospitals and other medical  efficiency and reductions of costs through contracting
services.                                     facilities of the armed forces; and (ii) a resolution of  out services and the elimination of duplications--; and
the debt overhang of armed forces' medical facilities  (ii) the external debt of the medical facilities was,
and the normalization of their financing regime.  consolidated and transferred to the Central Government,
which significantly improved their cash flow position
and financial accountability.



18
Table 6: Project Costs
Item                    Appralal etimate (USS'000)              Actual (USS'000)
Bank    Japanese    Govern    Bflak         Japanese     Govern
Grants      ment                  Grants       Mene
I. Institutional Framework for        1,268       0          645        875.5                   525.7
Implementation
II. RegulatoxyRefoxms                2,645       955        1,910      1026.6      968.6       261.7
A. Tlcoommunications                1,045       655        1,100      705.0       755.2       154.0
|B. Aviation                          500                    200
C. Ports                             900                   400        321.6                    60.8
D. Power                             200        300        210                    213.4        46.9
m. Implementation of Reforms         5,537       905        2,280      1,790.2    1,105.8       433.9
A. Telecommunications               1,600       905        300                   1,105.8      327.8
B. Aviation                         1,137                  230        879.6                   106.1
C. Ports                            2,400                  1,550      765.6
D. Power                             400                   200        145.0
IV. Other Assistance                  1,550      506         799        535.0       98.8         3.5
Reform of the MGAP                  600        506        344        135.0       98.8         3.5
ANCAP's cement & alcohol plants     350                   200        400.0
Small scale privatization and other  600                 255
New Items Added during                                           2,393.5                   4.8
Implementadon
V. Insurance Sector Reform                                             1,030.6
VI. Sanitation Sector Reforn                                            418.7
VII. State Postal Services                                             428.3
VII. Aimed Forces Health Services                                      347.3
IX. Other                                                               168.6                    4.8
Gas Co.                                                              19.7                     4.3
Deregulation                                                         28.0
Extnal Auditing                                                      14.1                     05
Equipment                                                             4.4
PPF - Refinancing                                                    102.4
Ttlj 100..... ...                  ,     ..   21  .2       1,229._
Total               |  100        2,6        5,634   |6,620.8       2,173.2     1,229.6



19
Table 7: Project Financing
Source                   Appraisl estimate (USS'OOO)               Actul
_(USS'OOO)
Local          Forein            Total           Total
costs           costii
IBRD                     1,000          10,000         11,000            6,621
Japanese Grant             200           2,166           2,366            2,173
Govemment                 5,634            -             5,634            1,230
Total             6.834          12,166          19,000           10,023



20
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Section of Loan    Type of    Present                Description of Covenant                              Comments
Agreement    Covenant        Status
Section 3.01 (a)    5            C        The Borrower shaU carry out the Project through  OPP, the Office of Plamiing and Budget, a
OPP with due diligence and efficiency and in  dependency of the Presidency of the Republic, was
conformity with appropriate administrative and  the executing agency for the Project and was in
financial practices.                          charge of coordinating the process of reform of
public enterprises.
Section 3.01 (b)    5            C        The Borrower shall maintain in OPP, until the  This Unit --known as GARE under its Spanish
Closing Date, a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)  acronym-- was created in OPP prior to Project
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the   effectiveness and it has been operational even after
Bank.                                         the Closing Date. Although much reduced in size,
GARE now is concentrating on issues related to
public concessions (ports, roads, etc.).
Section 3.01 (c)    5            C        The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all  The experts working in GARE were hired with
times headed by a qualiied professional and assisted  funds from PERL under an agreement between the
by qualified and adequate personnel.          Government and UNDP, which acted as facilitator.
Section 3.01 (d)    10          CP        The Borrower shall carry out the Project substantially  Only 3 of the 11 items in the Implementation
in accordance with the Implementation Program in    Schedule were complied with within the timetable
Schedule 5.                                   set in the original Schedule 5. This was amended
twice, following the June 94 mid-term review and
in October 1995.
Section 3.03       9           CP       The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank,   There was a continuous dialog between GARE and
by not later than June 30 and December 31 of each   the Bank throughout Project implementation,
year, starting in June 1993, a report satisfactory to    although progress reports were not always provided
the Bank concerning progress in the implementation   in the systematic and orderly fashion agreed upon
of the Project.                               in the Loan Agreement.



21
Section of Loan      Type of        Present                    Description of Covenant                                       Comments
Agreement        Covenant          Status
Section 3.04          10             C          The Borrower shaU canry out jointly with the Bank a   The mid-term review was carried out in June 1994
comprehensive mid-term review, not later than June    and resulted in a reallocation and cancellation
1994, on the progress of the achievement of the        (US$1.5 milion) of loan funds.
objectives of the Project.
Section 3.05          5              C          The Borrower shall maintain an information system      The mformation system was maintained by GARE
in OPP satisfactory to the Bank to provide the PCU     itself.
with full information on the execution of the Project.
Section 3.06 (a)       10              C         The Borrower shall carry out, under terms of            GARE, as the Govermment's counterpart to the
reference satisfactory to the Bank, all plans and      Bank, regularly exchanged views and requested the
studies included in the Project and shaU promptly      Bank the no objection for consulting assignments.
furnish to the Bank a copy of the findings and         Also, it provided the Bank with copies of the
I___________   I______         recommendations.                                        reports with the findings of these assigmnents.
Section 3.06 (b)        10            CP          The Borrower undertakes to ake ino account theu        TU..e                ilstalustted b, the- acs-e n
Bank's comments on the plans and studies referred in  taken in connection with the Aviation and ANCAP
Section 3.06 (a).                                      components, the position taken by the Borrower on
the implementation of some reforms differed from
____________  _______                                                         that of the Bank.
Section 4.01 (b)        1             CD          The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank not later than   Audit reports were sent to the Bank with delays.
(ii)                                       four months after the end of the fiscal year an         Also, some of the audit reports initially sent to the
appropriately audited report, by independent auditors   Bank received comments that were later on
acceptable to the Bank, on accounts and records of     corrected by the Borrower. The final audit report
the Project.                                           (for year 1997) is expected to be received not later
-   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____ ___________________ __________________ th a nw p i  199 8.
Cm.mtm Types
1 =AccountsAndits                                  S = Indigenous peope
2 - Funcial periace/t rvme fiom                    9 = Mootoing, review and repoting         Paeent Status:
be n ficiarm                                    10 P= rject implanentatiou not             C = covenat complied
3 Flow and utilization oPrqject funds                 covwed by catgories 1-9                 CD = complied with after dday
4 Comtawt fnding                                   11 = Sectolal or suu sectoal               CP = compliodwith pastially
5 = Manag*_nt aect of oh pnect                        budgetary or ohrr moure                NC = Not compliedwith
or WcoNing agey                                     allocation
6 = EAvirmnea conans_                              12 = Sector or cros-setoral policy/
7 = Jluy uaotdnsnt                                    reltoyrnatituiol action
13 = Other






23
Table 10: Missions
st4e orProject cycle         MontW           Number                   Spodeled
yeu              of       Days in       deaffddi                 Prformancer ting
Peon         field      epeented J/
Implementatlon       Development            pre of
________ ________ _______ _______              _______   ___    ____  _______S_  A____     _____v  _          problem
Through ppilul          January 1992             1          4              I
M   h1992               1           2              J
Apprail through         Mby 1992                7           11       A,B,DAE F %H
Board approval
Board approl
through effeete_
October 1992            2           8            A B                                       1          Concen over
Supervlwn                                                                                                                      r mendn whether
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                      _    _    _       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    ~~~~~~~~~ANTIL pMdvaid.
May 1993                2           4            A. B                 1                                ANTEL not
privatized. Fmds to
be used to devlop
telemmmWastions
reglatossteL
Rei4brM Of Minitry of
Apiculn behind
schedule.
November19              2           10           A.C                  2                    1          Prqeot
_____________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     __________        ___________           __________         Implementetion  slow.
Marh 1994               2           4            A, B                 2                   2           Loan Implmntadtn
albuted by eledon
inAdminatradLo
Fsbrury 1995            2           4            A,HD                 U                                    I Hatnrdeosm   Felb
September 1995          1           4             A                   u                   a           Disbursemes slow
July 1996               1           2             A                   9                   S            Slight delays in
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    _  _ _ _  _ _  _   ~~ ~~~~pr,iect   exe utio n
Completion              MAsy/June 1997          1           a              D
I/ Key to specialition:
A. Task Mnger
B. Port Specialist
C. Private Sector Specialist
D. Consutant
E Lepl Counsel
F. Natunl Gu Specialid
G Power Speialist
H. Regulations Specialist
L Sr. Teoommwltio  Specialist
3. Division Chief



MAI ECTION



53'.-                                       ,5'                                                                 55-6X
AMER                                                           j A                                                                                                 R             Z    I  L
v            _ /                                 .,, tan             i     nO  AVqer
-~~Jvl                                                                                                                                                                                                            naGPeo< .-  8bv\.  ..> 
58'                      Sr                                                                        /,                                    54              -X 
V  A s   ,Xf '%@ '       V     uge7                     k            /      i                             A~~~~F AI->     
\    Sonl    >    t-    v    }    >   5   hsndebsT  9 / _ <2 - > J w /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32
\ do _>~/< id {bnYle Roqualb ( v 
Fruz  tiW$F q *;9 _4;   ulsFwe /ht     u3 < 
.4  2                                                -l>             i-$Die            }                         /3E1NTAYT3E5           kJk           j             \~~cl
<    *                                                                                                                                      5    /\    _   At}   .'  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
__                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~URUGUAY
S OU T H                                                                                                                                                                                          ru-      5     30
AMERICA                                                                                                                                                                                 --             dR
| U3uGUAY .FX3hlDSST= _ _, ,_ * ~~~~~~~~~I-                                                                                                                     - _,R Ai---
i,  _   5e                                       t3    0 5D                1t           t          S3r                           S 5t                                             __ W~~~~~~~A,






