Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3517-0 UR
                (Public Enterprise Reform Project)
                              between
                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 19, 1992
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3517-0 UR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1992, between REPUBLICA
ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ANCAP" means Administracion Nacional de Combustibles,
Alcoholes y Portland, the Borrower's Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement
entity;
      (b)   "ANP" means Administracion Nacional de Puertos, the
Borrower's National Port entity;
      (c)   "ANSE" means Asociacion Nacional de Servicios de Estiba,
the National Stevedoring Services Association;
      (d)   "ANTEL" means Administracion Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower's Telecommunications entity;
      (e)   "Law" means the Borrower's Law 16.211 dated October 1,
1991 which governs the restructuring of the public services;
      (f)   "MGAP" means Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agricultura y
Pesca, the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and
Fishery;
      (g)   "MTOP" means Ministerio de Transportes y Obras Publicas,
the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Public Works;
      (h)   "OPP" means the Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto,
the Borrower's Office of Planning and Budgeting;
      (i)   "PE" means an enterprise or entity with juridical
personality of which all its proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by the Borrower;
      (j)   "PLUNA" means Primeras Lineas Uruguayas de Navegacion
Aerea, the Borrower's Airline entity;
      (k)   "Port Reform Advisory Commission" means a committee
comprised of representatives of each of MTOP, ANP, OPP, and the
Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social (the Borrower's Ministry of
Labor and Social Security), established pursuant to MTOP's
Resolution No. 2716/92 dated June 3, 1992 to assist OPP in the
execution of Part D of the Project;
      (l)   "Port Law" means Ley de Puertos, the Borrower's Law
16.246 dated April 23, 1992;
      (m)   "Project Coordinating Unit" means the OPP's Project
coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated October 25, 1990, December 30, 1990,
December 20, 1991 and January 27, 1992 between the Borrower and the
Bank;
Page  3
      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (p)   "UTE" means Administracion Nacional de Usinas y
Transmisiones Electricas, the Borrower's Power entity.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Banco
Central del Uruguay (the Borrower's Central Bank). Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall
thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
Page  4
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through OPP
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain in OPP, until the Closing
Date, a unit (the Project Coordinating Unit) with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,
the following:
            (i)   the coordination of the execution of all Parts of
                  the Project; and
           (ii)   the approval of the procurement of goods and the
                  selection of, and the terms of reference for, the
                  consultants.
      (c)   The Borrower, through OPP, shall: (i) ensure that the
Project Coordinating Unit is at all times headed by a qualified
professional and assisted by qualified and adequate personnel; and
(ii) consult with the Bank from time to time with respect to the
staffing of such unit.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
Page  5
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through OPP, shall carry out the
Project substantially in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions set forth
in Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
OPP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, by not later than June
30 and December 31 of each year, starting in June 1993, a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, concerning
the progress in the implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through OPP,
shall carry out jointly with the Bank a comprehensive mid-term
review, not later than June 1994, on the progress of the achievement
of the objectives of the Project.
      (b)   If, as result of the above review, the Bank determines
that the achievement of the objectives of the Project are not being
met, the Borrower, through OPP, shall promptly take all such
remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for
the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower, through OPP, shall establish and
maintain an information system in OPP, satisfactory to the Bank, in
order to ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is provided at
all times, with full information on the execution of the Project.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out all plans
and studies included in the Project under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) promptly after the completion of
each such plan or study, furnish to the Bank, for its comments,  a
copy of the findings and recommendations thereof (which, if
appropriate, shall include a proposed plan of action).
      (b)   The Borrower undertakes to: (i) take into account the
Bank's comments on the plans and studies referred to in paragraph
(a) (i) above; and (ii) carry out, if appropriate, the plans of
action referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above, all as required to
meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through OPP, shall maintain
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, provided,
however, that if any event referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) or
(c) shall affect the execution of only part of the Project and be
continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the Bank to the
amounts to be utilized to finance the execution of the Part or Parts
of the Project affected by such event:
      (a)   the Port Reform Advisory Commission shall have failed to
assist OPP in the execution of Part D of the Project, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   the Law or any provision thereof shall have been
suspended, abrogated, repealed or amended, and, if amended, so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower, through OPP, to carry out the Project; and
      (c)   the Port Law shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower,
through OPP, to carry out the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
Page  7
namely, that the Borrower has established the information system
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date December 18, 1992 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director or the Deputy Director of OPP of
the Borrower are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto
            Edificio Libertad L.A. de Herrera 3350
            Montevideo
            Republica Oriental del Uruguay
                                          Telex:
                                             DICOPRE-UY-22280
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                  By /s/ Ignacio de Posadas
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  8
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' ser-          9,470,000        100%
    vices and training
(2) Goods                         30,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Refunding of               1,500,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advances                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
                              __________
         TOTAL                11,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Parts B and C of the Project
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after February 29, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to support, under a
transparent and competitive process, the Borrower's efforts to: (a)
improve services and reduce the size of the public sector,
specifically the areas of telecommunications, transport and power;
(b) develop sectoral policies and appropriate regulatory frameworks
in such areas; and (c) implement restructuring and privatization
programs of PEs.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of the OPP
      Technical Assistance to OPP in:
      (a)   providing assistance to the Project Coordinating Unit
in: (i) participating in the design and implementation of the reform
activities at the institutional and enterprise level; (ii) managing
the hiring of consultants; and (iii) implementing the Project; and
Page  9
      (b)   (i) developing marketing campaigns to disseminate the
Borrower's privatization program in major financial centers; and
(ii) obtaining information from similar privatization experiences in
other countries through visits to such countries and participation
in seminars related to privatization.
Part B:     Telecommunications Sector Reform
1.    Technical assistance to the Borrower in:
      (a)   (i) drafting regulations applicable to the
telecommunications sector; and (ii) creating and developing the
telecommunications regulatory authority;
      (b)   designing, promoting, implementing and closing of the
sale of ANTEL; and
      (c)   drafting: (i) tender documents; and (ii) contracts and
regulations, and providing legal advice to the Borrower in the
closing of the sale of ANTEL.
2.    Advisory services for assisting the Borrower in the
privatization of ANTEL.
Part C:     Airlines Sector Reform
      Technical Assistance to the Borrower in:
      (a)   (i) creating an appropriate regulatory framework for
PLUNA's privatization; and (ii) adopting policies for stimulating
competition within the airlines sector; and
      (b)   (i) preparing bidding documents for the sale of PLUNA;
(ii) contacting potential buyers for the sale of PLUNA; (iii)
implementing and closing such sale; and (iv) providing legal
assistance to PLUNA in the implementation of its privatization.
Part D:     Port Sector Reform
      Technical Assistance to the Borrower in:
      (a)   providing assistance to the Port Reform Advisory
Commission in: (i) preparing the regulatory framework for the entire
port system; (ii) defining the technical and economic requirements
for private enterprises interested in obtaining concessions,
permits, authorizations and contracts to provide port services;
(iii) analyzing the viability of transferring ANP's ship repair and
port equipment repair and maintenance facilities to the private
sector; (iv) analyzing options for the administration, operation and
maintenance of the Borrower's dredging fleet; (v) preparing
technical and administrative guidelines for port administration and
captaincies, in accordance with the new Port Law; and (vi)
monitoring Part D of the Project;
      (b)   designing and implementing the administrative structure
and functional organization of ANP, MTOP's port directorate,
Montevideo's port captaincy and ANSE, in accordance with the Port
Law;
      (c)   (i) reviewing and improving the cargo-handling methods
within the port sector; and (ii) developing operational and
monitoring regulations and procedures to conduct, coordinate and
supervise the Borrower's port operations and related activities; and
     (d)   (i) divesting ANP's non-commercial port activities; and
(ii) financing seminars and practical training of the staff of the
new port captaincies to be created in the Borrower's territory, in
order to improve their skills in the coordination and supervision of
port operations and related activities.
Part E:     Power Sector Reform
Page  10
1.    Technical Assistance to the Borrower in:
      (a)   (i) drafting regulations and developing the functions
and organization of the Borrower's power regulatory authority; (ii)
drafting a new electricity decree; and (iii) defining a methodology
and an action plan for setting electricity rates;
      (b)   preparing a detailed plan for privatizing or franchising
selected UTE's power generation plants, as determined by the
Borrower, including, inter alia: (i) the organizational, operational
and financial structure of such selected power generation plants;
(ii) the procedures for the implementation of the privatization or
franchising of such selected power generation plants; and (iii) the
provision of assistance in the implementation of the privatization
or franchising plan of such selected power generation plants.
2.    A training program consisting of:
      (i)   training of the Borrower's officials who will handle
regulatory responsibilities in the Borrower's power regulatory
authority; (ii) seminars on power sector regulation and reform; and
(iii) training of UTE's management and high-level staff concerning
the implications of the electricity regulations to be issued.
3.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials for the
implementation of the training program referred to in Part E.2 of
the Project.
Part F:     Reform of the MGAP
      Technical Assistance to the Borrower in:
      (a)   supporting privatization and reorganization activities
within MGAP, through: (i) a unit established to carry out the reform
of MGAP; (ii) the carrying out of studies to determine options for
MGAP's services, including their privatization or transfer to other
entities or closing; and (iii) the implementation of the
recommendations of such studies; and
      (b)   developing an action plan for the reorganization of MGAP
after divesting MGAP of a number of its functions.
Part G:     ANCAP's Cement and Alcohol Plants
      (a)   Preparation of a diagnostic for ANCAP's cement and
alcohol plants consisting of: (i) an analysis of their
competitiveness; (ii) a financial analysis and assets valuation; and
(iii) options for their privatization; and
      (b)   assistance in the implementation of the future reform or
privatization of such plants.
Part H:     Small Scale Privatization
      Technical Assistance to the Borrower in the carrying out of
small scale privatizations, including, inter alia, local airports,
hospital services, and the Borrower's Stationery House (Imprenta
Nacional).
                        *        *        *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
Page  11
      beginning January 15, 1998                550,000
      through   July 15, 2007
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                  1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Local Shopping
      Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
Page  12
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower, through OPP, shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                  SCHEDULE 5
                            Implementation Program
                        Start Not               Completion Not
Part of the Project     Later Than                  Later Than
1.    B.1 (b)                    *              June 30, 1993
2.    B.1 (c)(i)                 *              December 30, 1992
3.    C (a)             December 31, 1992       June 30, 1993
4.    C (b) (i)                  *              December 30, 1992
5.    D (a)             December 31, 1992       December 31, 1993
6.    D (b)             March 31, 1993          March 31, 1994
7.    D (c)             March 31, 1993          September 30, 1993
8.    D (d)             December 31, 1992       September 30, 1993
9.    E.1 (a)           September 30, 1992      June 30, 1993
10.   E.1 (b)           June 30, 1993           June 30, 1994
11.   G                 September 30, 1993      September 30, 1994
_____________
*     Already in Execution.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
Page  13
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
Page  14
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
