Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11301-NAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 18, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Department III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =               Malagasy Francs (FMG)
U.S.S           =                FMG 1,800
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACN                              Community Nutrition Worker (Agent Communautaire de Nutrition)
BPS                              SECALINE Project Office (Bureau d'Excution du Projet SECALINE)
CICS                             Interministerial Coordination Committee (Comite Interministeriele de
Coordination du Projet SECALINE)
CRT                              Nutrition Rehabilitation Center (Centre de Rehabilitation Thirapeutique)
EMSAP/PASAGE                     Economic Management and Social Action Project (Projet des Actions
Sociaks et Appui a la Gestion Economique)
EWS                              Early Warning System (Systlne d 'Akrte Pricoce)
FARITANY                         Province (groups about 20 fivondrononana)
FID                              Social Fund (Fonds d'intervention pour le Diveloppement)
FIRAISANA                        Local Govemment Grouping of Villages or Neighborhoods
FIVONDRONONANA                   Districts (includes everal Firaisana)
FOKONTANY                        Village or Neighborhood
ICB                              Intemational Competitive Bidding
IEC                              Information, Education and Communication (Information, Education et
Communications)
IDD/ TDCI                        Iodine Deficiency Disorders/ Troubls Das aax Carences en lode
ILO/ BIT                        Intemational Labor Office/ Bureau International du Travail
KAP                              Knowledge, Attitude and Praetice
LCB                              Local Competitive Bidding
MSF                              Doctors without Borders (Midecins sans Frontieres)
NGO                              Non Govemmental Organization (Organisation Non Gouvernmentak)
PCN                              Community Nutrition Program (Programme Communaulaire de Nutrition)
PNSAN                            National Food Security and Nutrition Monitoring System (Programme
National de SurveiUlance Alimentaire et Natritionelke)
SECALINE                         Food Security and Nutrition Project (Sicuriti Alimenatire et Nutrition
Elargie)
UNICEF                           United Nations International Childrens Emergency Fund
WFP/PAM                          World Food Program (Programme Albnentaire Mondial)
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission composed of Messrsn.Mss. Qaiser Khan
(Mission Leader and Human Resource Economist), Paul Geli (Consultanttlmplementation Specialist and Deputy
Task Manager), Michele Lioy (IEC Specialist), Tonia Marek (Nutritionist), Eileen Murray (Financial Analyst) and
Alf Persson (ConsultantJMIS Specialist). Further assistance was provided by Ms. Trudy Bower-Pirinis of the
World Food Program. Messrs. Alan Berg and Harry Walters are the Lead Advisors while Mr. Jim Greene is the
Peer Reviewer. Mr. Francisco Aguirrre-Sacasa is the Department Director, Mr. Alain Colliou is the managing
Division Chief and Mr. Jerome Chevallier is the Department Operations Advisor. The report benefited strongly
from the advice and support received from Dr. Jacques Baudouy who was Acting Division Chief, AF3PH for an
extended period before and after the appraisal mission. Ms. Hilda Emeruwa provided secretarial support with
support and guidance from Ms. Silvia Marquina-Loon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECUErrY AND NUTRmON PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Projet Summary .................. i
I. BACKGROUND                             ..1.............. I
A. Introduction ................  1
B.  Food Insecurity and Malnutrition in Madagascar ...................  2
C.  Government Policies and Actions and the Bank's Experience  ....                     .......  4
D.  Role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) ..................  5
E.  Rationale for IDA Involvement ..............................  6
II. THE PROPOSED PROJECT ......                        .....................                               6
A.  Project Objective and Design ...............................  6
B.  Project Description  .....................................   7
C.  Project Costs and Financing   ..............................   11
HI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .............                           ..         .................   14
A.  Status of Project Preparation  ..............................   14
B.  Project Management  ...................................   14
C.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation   ..........................   17
D.  Procurement  ........................................    19
E.  Disbursement ........................................  23
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....... ..........                               ....................   25
A.  Benefits  ...........................................   25
B.  Risks .............................................   26
V. AGREEMENTS. ASSURANCES ANDRECOMMENDATION ....                                             ......... 27
ANNEXES
ANNEX I: Fonds d'Intervention pour le Develoopement (FID)  ................  30
A.  General  .         ..........................................   30
B.  Legal set up, Organization and Management  ....................   30
C.  Types of Projects, and Selection and Evaluation Criteria  ....                 .........  31
D.  Beneficiaries of FID   ..........                  .........................   32
E.  Operation of FID   ...........                  ..........................   32
ANNEX II: URBAN FOOD-FOR-WORK PROGRAM ....................... 35
A. Objective ........................................... 35
B.  Types of works  ............                    ..........................   35
C.  Management and Implementation   ...........................   35
D.  Contracting .........................................  36
E. Co-financing . ........................................ 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX IH: COMMUNITY NUTRMTION PROGRAMME (PCN) ....                                           .......... 37
A. Background                                          ..    37
B.  Component Description   .............                  ..         ..................   37
C.  Component Objectives               ................               ..................   41
D.  NGO Involvement .......              ...........               ...................   42
E.  Overview  of the Manual for the Community Nutrition Program  ...                     ......  43
ANNEX IV: IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS aDD) CONTROL PROGRAM .... 46
A.  Background .........................................   46
B.  Proposed strategy  .....................................   46
C.  Institutional arrangements  ................................   47
D.  Estimated Cost .......................................   47
E.  Project Financed Activities  ...............................   48
ANNEX V: INFORMATION. EDUCATION. AND COMMUNICATION (IEC) ... 50
A.  Introduction   ....... .......... ..                        .....................   50
B. Management of IEC Activities .............................                                     50
C.  IEC Target Audiences               ................               ..................   51
D.  IEC Strategy                    ........................................    51
ANNEX VI: PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASPECTS   ......................   53
A.  General  ...........................................   53
B.  Project characteristics ...................................   53
C.  Project management and coordination .........................   53
D.  Project structure ......................................   54
E.  Distribution of supervision and coordination roles  .................  55
F.  Management information system   ............................   58
G.  Service functions  .....................................   58
H.  Training and support ...................................   58
Attachment : Terms of Reference for Key Project Management Staff  ... .....  59
ANNEX VIII: MONITORING  AND EVALUATION   .......                             ..         .............   61
A.  General  ...........................................   61
B.  Social Fund (FID) .....................................   62
C.  Urban Food-for-Work  ..................................   63
D.  Community nutrition program  (PCN) .........................   64
E.  Iodine deficiency disorder (IDD) control program   .................  65
F.  IEC Component  ......................................   66
G.  National Food Security Strategy  ............................   67
ANNEX VIII: LETTER OF FOOD  SECURITY POLICY   ...................  69
ANNEX IX: DETAILED  COST TABLES   .............................   71
ANNEX  X: ESTIMATED  SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT   ................   85
ANNEX XI: SUPERVISION  PLAN   .................................   86
ANNEX XII: LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES  ..................  88



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Credit and Projet Summary
Borrower:    Government of the Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries: The Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID) and Community Nutrition
Centers.
Amount:        SDR 15.5 million (US $ 21.3 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms with 40 year maturity and a 10 year grace period.
Project
Description:  The project which would be primarily active in two of Madagascar's six provinces
has three components: (a) Income Generatinp Activities to be carried out through (i)
the Fonds d'Intervention pour le Dgveloppement (FID) financing labor intensive
works and other income generation activities and (ii) a Food for Work program
targeted to the urban poor in Greater Antananarivo; (b) Nutrition Interventions
including (i) a Community Nutrition Program in the provinces of Toliary and
Antananarivo working through mothers groups organized by a community nutrition
agent supported by NGOs to provide nutrition education, arrange supplemental
feeding and refer severe cases of malnutrition to nutrition rehabilitation centers
operating under medical supervision and (ii) a national Iodine Deficiency Disorders
(IDD) control program; and (c) Institutional Strengthening to support the
development and execution of an Information, Education and Communication (EC)
program and support the development of a National Food Security Strategy for the
long term.
Estimated Project Costs. Financinf Plan and Disbursements:
Summary Project Costs Estimates in US $ Millions
ComponUVC(ory                         L1cal         Forein         Total
A. Income GacCnsaim Activities
1. FID project                         3.0           2.8          10.3
2. Food for Work                       3.7           3.5           7.3
B. Nutrition
1. Counuity Nuriom Tobty               2.2           1.3          3.6
2. Community Nuition Aa_uriw           1.1           0.8           1.9
3. Iodine Derfciency Disorder          0.1           0.6           0.7
C. IEC and Food Scurty Siuteg           0.6           0.4           1.1
Pjet Pemsnt                             0.6           0.5           1.1
PPF d apmOmt                            0.5           1.5           2.0
Total BASE COSTS                        16.9          11.5         23.5
Physical C _ezmgmciss                    .3           0.4           1.2
Price Continpaci                        2.2           0.5          2.7
Totl PROJECT COMTS                     20.0          12.4         32.41/
I/     Excluding taxes of US$0.9 million and duties of US$1.1 million.



- ii -.
Financing Plan:
Source                                Local        Foreign         Total
IDA                                    14.4           6.9          21.3
World Food Program                     2.6            4.7           7.3
Japan                                  0.1            0.4           0.5
UNICEF                                   -            0.4           0.4
Beneficiaries                          1.2              -            1.2
Government                             1.7              -            1.7
TOTAL                                  20.0          12.4          32.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements
[Year                     FY94       FY95       FY96        FY97      FY98
Annual                    3.4        5.6        4.6         5.0       2.7
Cumulative                3.4        9.0        13.6       13.6      21.3
.igures mnay not add up due to rounding.
Benefits and Risks:
The proposed project would alleviate poverty and reduce malnutrition. By providing
the poor with access to income earning opportunities, it would not only help them
escape from poverty but also contribute to national output. Labor intensive works
financed by the FID would also have development benefits over and beyond
immediate job creation. The project would help improve the capacity of NGOs and
community groups. Component specific benefits are described below. FID projects
are expected to: (a) through labor-based works, create 1.9 million person-days of
employment and provide 91 contracts to small enterprises to help their development;
(b) support 25 NGO income-generating activities annually targeted to the poorest; and
(c) help create about 2,000 permanent jobs through micro-enterprises development.
These estimates are based on a certain assumption of the distribution of FID projects,
however as FID will be demand-driven, this distribution may change. Food-for-
Work is designed to be a temporary transfer program to address the acute poverty
in Greater Antananarivo but it would help create some community infrastructure such
as solid-waste bins.  The program  would create 4.2 million person/days of
employment over five years targeted to the poorest workers (the majority women) in
the poorest neighborhoods.  Community Nutrition Program.  It will take a
preventive/public health approach to reducing malnutrition through emphasizing
growth monitoring, nutrition education and supplemental feeding to keep nutrition
problems under control and to help households better use existing resources. This
means that households will be better able to prevent malnutrition even without the aid
of the project. By the end of the project 91,200 children will be monitored in
Toliary which is almost universal coverage for the 8 target districts and another



- Hii -
30,600 children will have undergone supplemental feeding. The objectives for the
province of Antananarivo include growth monitoring for 60,800 children in the five
target districts which gives a coverage rate of over 60% and 15,300 children 0-3 in
Antananarivo will benefit from supplemental feeding. These figures are indicative
and may change as the project intends to follow a beneficiary led demand driven
approach. Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Program would reduce at a very low
cost ($0.11/person) a problem that is prevalent in Madagascar and is the cause of
much morbidity. By reducing the prevalence of iodine deficiency related disorders,
significant savings in public and private health care expenditures would be achieved.
IEC program will help to communicate messages designed to improve the food
security and nutritional status of the population. The development and adoption of
a National Food Security Strategy would help the country reduce its food insecurity
in the long-run.
The main risk is implementation delay that could result from inadequate management.
This will be minimized by setting up a project management structure outside the
administration and following private sector rules. There is a risk resulting from the
political transition process which may have a blocking effect on key activities.
Several pre-conditions for the project emphasize steps to be taken with respect to
project management. Component specific risks are described below. The political
risk political is reduced by the fact that this type of poverty program enjoys support
across the political spectrum. There is a risk of conflict between two potentially
strong institutional entities: the Food Security and Nutrition project office (BPS) and
the FID. This risk will be reduced by the National Coordinator of SECALINE (Food
Security and Nutrition Project) being appointed as the Prime Minister's representative
on the Board of FID. FID. Specific risks for this component are its unsustainability
in the long-run and the potential of FID becoming a non-performing public sector
agency at the end of the project. These risks are minimized by: (a) targeting the
poor by using strict project selection criteria; (b) supporting the development of
grass-roots development groups which focus on self-help; (c) financing training and
technical assistance to develop sustainable income earning opportunities such as
microenterprises; and (d) setting up the FID not as a public enterprise but as a
private non-profit association. Food-for-Work. Specific risks include: (a) logistical
problems in moving food from port to work-sites; (b) limited capacity of local
authorities; (c) leakage of benefits to the non-poor; and (d) effect of importing about
9,000 tons of rice (about 2,000 tons per year) on domestic producer prices. These
risks will be minimized by: (a) contracting the private sector to store and transport
the material; (b) hiring the International Labor Office (ILO) as an executing agency
for this component; (c) by (i) targeting the poorest neighborhoods and the most
unappealing work (cleaning drains etc.); and (d) importing 2,000 tons a year
represents less than 0.2% of total rice supplies and by targeting the rice to the
poorest parts of the population who would otherwise not have the purchasing power
to buy the rice. Community Nutrition Pro2ram. Specific risks include: (a) non-
responsiveness to the needs of the beneficiary communities; (b) creating dependence
on food aid; and (c) logistical problems of running a program in vulnerable and
sometimes inaccessible areas.  These risks are minirmized by: (a) requiring
community participation from  the beginning;  (b) emphasizing (i) nutrition
surveillance, (ii) preventive feeding supplementation as necessary rather than regular
meals, and (iii) nutrition education focusing on more efficient use of materials already
available to the households; and (c) (i) using an NGO familiar with the area to



- iv -
execute the program, (ii) relying as much as possible on locally purchased materials,
and (iii) giving as much decision making independence as possible to the ACNs and
their immediate supervisors. Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Control Program.
Specific risks are: (a) private salt producers may become dependent on subsidies to
iodize salt; (b) public may be unwilling to pay slightly more for iodized salt; and (c)
some may be allergic to iodine. These risks will be minimized by phasing subsidies
out over time as more and more of the salt in the market is iodized and by initially
subsidizing iodized salt so that it costs the same as non-iodized salt. By the time the
subsidies on iodized salt are phased out, the health benefits should be evident.
Institutional Development. Specific risks are: (a) inappropriate IEC messages; and
(b) a long term food security strategy that does not reflect a consensus. These risks
are minimized by use of Knowledge, Attitudes and Practice (KAP) and beneficiary
assessment surveys to develop IEC messages and by supporting a national seminar
to discuss the recommendations of the working group on food security strategy.
Map:         IBRD No. 20035R
Internal Rate
of Return:   Not Applicable



MADAGASCAR
F'OOD SECURTlBY AND NUTRMTON PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L IAC
A. In hion
1.1          With a population of 11.6 million, growing at 3 % per year, and a per capita income
of US$220 distributed unequally, Madagascar is among the least developed countries in the world.
The agriculture dominated economy, which had grown modestly in the late 1980's following a decade
of decline, is now stagnant and severely disrupted by political developments since mid-1991. Starting
in July 1991, widespread demonstrations and strikes paralyzed public administration and severely
disrupted economic activity. A transitional power-sharing arrangement was negotiated out of the
political stalemate and a new coalidon government was put in place in January 1992. A national
referendum approved a new constitution in August; the first round of the Presidential Election was
held in November, 1992 and the second round was held in February, 1993; parliamentary elc,tions
are expected in April, 1993 following which a new government is expected to be in place by mid-
1993. These political developments worsened the economic situation of the poor and a survey carried
out by the government and UNICEF found that 83 % of the urban poor lost part or all of their income
sources during the strikes. Public administration is inefficient and its capacity extremely limited.
Much of the development effort is carried out by NGOs, the private sector and some foreign-assisted
projects. Despite the country's significant development potential, its social conditions are below sub-
Saharan African standards: chronic malnutrition rates are about 40%, child mortality claims 20% of
live births before age 5; endemic malaria has become a major health problem; tuberculosis and other
communicable diseases are growing in importance; and education standards are low with enrolment
rates falling, though from a relatively high level.
1.2          The government started adjustment operations in 1985 with support from the Bank
and the IMF, focusing first on liberalizing agriculture, industry and trade; and moving on to a
broader public sector adjustment program. The government also requested Bank support in the social
sectors and sectoral operations in education (FY90) and Health (FY91) have been approved by the
Bank. To help the poorer segments of the population during the period of adjustment, the
government developed an Economic Management and Social Action Project (EMSAP/PASAGE)
which included pilot targeted programs to reduce food insecurity among the poor. This project
received Bank support but the pilot programs have not had the expected results because of managerial
weakness. Nevertheless, that experience has provided useful lessons in developing the proposed food
security project which was requested by the government in 1990. These lessons, which have been
incorporated into the design of this project, include the need to: (a) involve communities and
beneficiaries in project design and execution; (b) work outside traditional government structures; (c)
have clearly outlined decision making structures and lines of authority in multi-component projects;
and (d) have a good monitoring, financial management and accounting system.



B. Food Jlnecuribt and M alutrition in Madar
Food -kasecun
1.3          Madagascar's economy grew modestly from its independence in 1960 through 1970;
stagnated during 1970 to 1980; deteriorated sharply from 1980 through 1982; and experienced
stabilization with modest economic growth from 1983 through 1987. Between 1988 and 1990, the
economy showed encouraging signs with positive per capita income growth (about 1 % per year) for
the first time in almost two decades. Private investment increased, particularly in labor intensive
export industries, but the political turmoil that swept the country in the second half of 1991 wiped
out much of the gain made during the 1988 to 1990 period.
1.4          Productive assets are distributed unequally and access to economic opportunities is
inequitable in both urban and rural areas. A study found that between 1962 and 1980, income
inequality increased with the Gini coefficient of income inequality rising from 0.391 to 0.489
(Gini=0 denotes perfect equality and Gini= 1 denotes perfect inequality i.e. the higher the value the
more unequal the income distribution). The increased inequality was more pronounced in rural areas
where the Gini coefficient changed from a more or less equitable 0.290 to an inequitable 0.435. The
Gini coefficient in the six largest towns in 1962 was 0.500 and while no corresponding measure is
available for 1980, a survey of the income distribution in Antananarivo in 1989 found the Gini
coefficient close to 0.800 (extreme inequality). According to this survey, the top 10% of the urban
population earned over 80% of urban income. If this level of inequality is representative of the
whole population, it would be unprecedented in the world. Whether this survey is representative or
not, it is evident that inequality in Madagascar has worsened during the last two decades.
1.5          Even though food production appears to exceed estimated needs by 20% or more,
almost 40% of the population is food insecure because their own production and/or purchasing power
is insufficient. Furthermore, markets are inefficient and segmented leading to pronounced seasonal
malnutrition even in areas producing substantial food surpluses. Bank sector work shows that food
insecurity in Madagascar is linked to poverty and unequal access to economic opportunities . The
Bank food security study found that in 1989, food insecurity was estimated to affect 34% of rural
households and 42% of urban households. Urban food insecurity was much more intense, partly
because many of the rural poor who do not have access to land or other productive assets move to
urban centers (particularly the Greater Antananarivo area). Food insecurity was found to vary
regionally with the highest levels being in the provinces of Toliary (54% of households) and
Antananarivo (46% of households). The study found that food insecurity could not be reduced
through distribution neutral economic growth alone. To reduce food insecurity, a poverty reducing
growth strategy has to be followed and the poor have to be provided with the means with which they
could participate as full partners in Madagascar's economic life and share in the benefits of growth.
1.6          The sector study on food security was done in 1990 and the situation has worsened
since, largely due to the economic stagnation brought about by the political crisis. A survey 2/ of
the impact of the political crisis on the poorest households in major urban areas showed that 83 % of
2/ UNICEF/PNSAN/Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique Enquete sur l 'Impact de la Crise
Socio-Politique de mal a novembre 1991 d Madagascar, Antananarivo, July, 1992



the poor households in urban areas lost part or all of their income sources with 27% of poor
households losing all their income sources and another 56% suffering forced reductions due to the
strike. Even after the political crisis was over, 40% of these poor households were unable to regain
their original sources of livelihood. During the crisis 72 % of these households were forced to reduce
rice consumption (an important signal of economic distress in Madagascar), while after the crisis 61%
of these households were consuming less rice than before the political crisis. These recent
developments have increased the need for the type of targeted interventions which this proposed
project would support.
1.7          The southern rim of Madagascar which has a semi-arid agro-climatic zone has long
been neglected and remains at the periphery of the national economy. Frequent droughts leading to
famines or near-famines have affected the region even during those years when there were food
surpluses nationally. In 1992, famine threatened almost a million people even as the country was
producing a very good rice harvest in the highlands and the west coast. The long-term food security
of the region requires: (a) research and extension efforts to promote drought resistant crops; (b)
improved infrastructure to better link the region with national markets; (c) diversification of the
income sources of the population; and (d) increased efforts to develop the region's ground-water
resources. Before the benefits from these long-term efforts begin to bear fruit, a series of short-term
targeted measures are necessary to ease the vulnerable population through the transition period. The
proposed project includes some of these short-term measures.
Malnutrition
1.8          Chronic food insecurity combined with poor health conditions has led to very high
rates of malnutrition in Madagascar. The Programme National de la Surveillance Alimentaire et
Nutritionelle (PNSAN) found that chronic malnutrition affected between 33% and 37% of children
under five rising as high as 60% in some areas while acute malnutrition affects between 6% and 7%
of children rising as high as 13% in some surveys 4/. Seasonal malnutrition was high even in the
agriculture surplus region around Lake Alaotra.
1.9          The problem of protein-energy malnutrition which is directly correlated with food
insecurity and endemic diseases such as diarrhoea, is compounded by the existence of various
micronutrient deficiencies. The most common deficiency is iodine, but iron deficiency, calcium
deficiency and vitamin A deficiency are also prevalent. These micronutrient deficiencies are directly
attributable to the Malagasy diet which is dominated by rice (cassava among poorer people and in
certain regions). Some of the micronutrient deficiencies are likely to be reduced as incomes grow
and households are able to afford more vegetables and protein.
1.10         Iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) are endemic in Madagascar particularly in the
Highlands due to the lack of iodine in the diet and the consumption of goitrogenic food such as
cassava, certain green leaves and cabbage. The most common symptom of IDD are goiters but IDD
also causes birth of (i) mentally and physically retarded children, (ii) deaf-mutes and (iii) mildly
retarded children. IDD also retards the mental development of children and is unlikely to be reduced
by income growth. Even though the problem has been known for many years, it has not been possible
to develop an IDD program until now because the following pre-conditions for such a program were
only met in 1992: (a) an IDD prevalence map was published; (b) a salt distribution study was done;
4/ PNSAN Documents de l 'Atelier National de Surveillance Alimentaire et Nutritionnelle -
Synthese des donnkes sur 1'etat nutritionnel, Antananarivo, July, 1989



-4-
and (c) a feasibility study for salt iodination was carried out. Based on these data, the Ministry of
Health with support from UNICEF developed a national IDD control program in November 1992,
which will be partly financed by this project.
1.11         Weaning foods tend to be a variation of the adult diet with the bulk of rural infants
receiving watery rice (vary sosoa). In urban areas, there is a little more variation with muffins
(mofogasy) being predominant among the urban poor. These foods do not have the nutritional density
recommended for weaning foods. However, mothers breast-feed their infants as long as possible,
usually stopping only when the next one is born. Nutrition programs have to focus on educating
mothers as low-cost weaning foods with high nutrient density can be prepared with materials found
in most Malagasy homes, though access to supplementary resources will have to be made available
to the poorest households.
C. Government Policies and Actions and the Bank's Experience
Policies
1.12         To reduce food insecurity a set of policies with the following objectives are needed:
(a) increase economic growth; (b) improve the efficiency of markets; (c) reduce the opportunity to
engage in rent-seeking activities; (d) increase income earning opportunities for the poor (by improving
the human resource endowment of the poor and giving them equal access to opportunities); and (e)
integrate less favored regions into the national economy. These are all among the stated objectives
of the government though progress is slow.
1.13         The transition government is officially committed to building a competitive market
economy and to reduce rent-seeking opportunities by liberalizing and integrating markets. However,
policy reform has been stalled because a multiplicity of interim government institutions limits the
government's capacity to act decisively. The regulatory environment which allowed the rent seeking
activities and contributed to increasing inequality during the past two decades remains largely
untouched. An example of this comes from the vanilla sector which is Madagascar's primary export
crop. A Bank study found that the regulatory framework is such that much of the benefits accrue to
a few private traders and the government. The small-holders who grow vanilla receive little for their
effort giving them no opportunity to improve their economic position and almost no incentive to
increase the output or improve the quality of their vanilla.
1.14         Despite the encouraging results on the economic front during 1988-90, the supply
response to structural adjustment has been inadequate and has not attained its potential with traditional
export crops and industries stagnating. The supply response has been constrained by infrastructure
bottlenecks, poorly functioning factor and commodity markets, and adverse terms of trade. The
stated commitment to human resource development has not been reflected in budgetary allocations
to the Ministries responsible for education and health.
Actions
1.15         With support from the Bank and other donors, Madagascar has embarked on a series
of operations in agriculture, infrastructure and human resources which would help improve the
country's food security situation. Specific actions include: (a) improvement of infrastructure; (b)
removal of remaining constraints on agriculture markets; (c) investment in agriculture research and
extension; (d) irrigation development; (e) education sector development; and (f) health sector
development. However, the execution of many of these programs has been hampered by the



weakness of the central administration combined with an unwillingness to delegate control of
resources outside the capital.
1.16         An early warning system which had been set up by the government to provide
advance information on food emergencies is largely dysfunctional; in any case even functioning early
warning systems have proven to be ineffective unless they are linked up to an emergency response
management system. The recent famine in southern Madagascar illustrates the problem clearly. A
non-governmental early warning system put in place by the Medecins-Sans-Frontires (MSF) warned
of the crisis more than a year before the famine actually occurred but no action was taken until the
World Food Program decided to set up an emergency response network with help from other donors.
1.17         Various NGOs and churches operate nutrition programs on an ad-hoc basis. These
are primarily designed to relieve the symptoms of malnutrition and do not aim to support actions
which would help solve the problem in the long-term. A systematic approach which combines
nutrition activities such as surveillance, supplementation, rehabilitation and education with support
to develop income earning opportunities is needed. The nutrition component of the proposed project
would support such a program.
Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
1.18         Execution of projects in Madagascar has been hampered by bureaucratic delays and
procurement problems because of cumbersome procedures and weak managerial capacity in the public
sector. The proposed operation will address these problems by building private sector and NGO
capacity to deliver social services through: (a) setting up a project management structure outside the
central administration to be staffed by personnel recruited on a contractual basis from the private
sector; (b) involving NGOs, local communities and private entities in project execution; and (c)
setting up FID as a private non-profit association operating under private sector rules. Separate
special accounts would be set up for the project unit and for FID. Key project staff have been trained
in procurement, accounting and financial reporting procedures and Bank approved standard documents
will be used. The audit and financial management system is being prepared by an international audit
firm. A project launch workshop and a mid-term review are planned. The project has also benefited
from Bank experience in social funds all over the world and the following has been incorporated into
the design of FID: (a) complete operational independence; (b) a detailed operations manual clearly
defining procedures; (c) requirement of some minimal counterpart funding in cash or kind from
beneficiaries; and (d) frequent audits.
D. Role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
1.19         NGOs (broadly defined to include churches and their local parishes and missions) are
active in programs targeted to the poor; outside the capital and other principal cities, much of the
development effort is carried out by NGOs. Most NGOs active in the field are churches and their
parishes and in many cases, the poorest segments of the population appear to have more confidence
in NGOs than in the authorities, though local services of national ministries are better accepted than
their central counterparts. It is likely that much of project implementation in the field will be done
by church based NGOs, though non-religious NGOs will also be important in areas where they are
active. The proposed project expects to rely heavily on NGOs to execute the major components.
The community nutrition program will be executed by the communities with support from local
NGOs contracted by the project. These NGOs will sensitize the communities and help them set up
the program. NGOs will be eligible to receive a major share of funding from the FID (see
paragraph 2.8).



- 6 -
1.20         NGOs played an active role by participating in the project preparation units for
Toliary and Antananarivo. They were also consulted by the team preparing the FID. The FID itself
will be set up as a non-profit association of which interested NGOs could become members.
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.21   Given Madagascar's very low level of development, alleviating poverty is a priority of the
Bank's assistance program. Sustained growth is a necessary condition for providing a durable and
effective response to this problem, and IDA-financed operations in agriculture and infrastructure are
addressing two important elements of this response: growth of agricultural output and improved
infrastructure to integrate markets. However, sustained growth will not in itself be sufficient to
alleviate poverty. Some of the poorest households cannot be adequately reached through agricultural
growth; many more need also to receive more targeted protection, whether in the form of increased
access to economic opportunities or through transfers. The Bank strategy is to rely increasingly on
NGOs and private organizations with a proven record for efficient delivery of programs reaching the
most vulnerable groups. The proposed Food Security and Nutrition Project is a key component of
this assistance strategy; it will address the problems of food insecurity and malnutrition affecting the
poorest groups in the country, and will do so by integrating NGOs and local communities more
firmly into the process of executing and delivering services. By alleviating the worst forms of
poverty, it would also help the country recommence its adjustment efforts and complement on-going
social sector projects in Education (FY90), Health (FY91) and Vocational Training (FY92).
II. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objective and Design
2.1    The project objective is to reduce food insecurity and malnutrition in the two most food-
insecure provinces through income generating projects and targeted nutrition programs. The project
will operate outside the central administration and its field activities will be mostly executed by
NGOs, community groups and the private sector. A comprehensive IEC program to create awareness
and educate the population of the project objective would be carried out while beneficiary assessment
surveys would provide feedback from the target population.
2.2          The project has been designed to address those aspects of food insecurity that would
not be tackled by adjustment operations or investment operations in agriculture, infrastructure and
the social sectors. It has also been designed to integrate NGOs more firmly in the execution and
delivery of social and economic services. The government has been preparing a national program
called SECALINE (LECurite ALImentaire et Nutrition Elargie) to address these objectives and the
proposed project will support this national program. SECALINE will include income generation
activities including food-for-work specifically targeted to address the acute food insecurity problem
in Greater Antananarivo and a nutrition program emphasizing activities to prevent malnutrition
complemented by nutrition education designed to help households use available resources more
efficiently. These actions would be complemented by an IEC campaign, and by support for a
national Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Control Program.
2.4          Experience elsewhere in Africa shows that successful nutrition programs are those
that are combined with income generating activities. To assure synergy between the nutrition
activities and the income generation activities included in the project the following links have been
developed: (a) both activities target the same provinces (i.e. Antananarivo and Toliary); (b) nutrition
workers would be tools including a manual to help them support the community in developing income



- 7 -
generation activities proposals for the FID; and (c) the regional coordinator for the nutrition program
will maintain close liaison with the Regional Director of the FID and also serve on the regional
projects advisory committee.
2.5          Progress in achieving project objectives will be assessed against monitoring indicators
that have been developed and agreed upon with the government and FID. These indicators are given
in Table 3.1 and include: (a) number of contracts with small enterprises for labor intensive
infrastructure projects financed by FID; (b) number of contracts with NGOs for sustainable income
generating projects financed by FID; (c) person-days of temporary employment created by the Food-
for-Work program; (d) number of children, by province, served by community nutrition centers; and
(e) number of children and mothers of child-bearing age receiving iodine capsules.
B. Project Description
Income Generating Activities
2.6           Background and Justification. As already indicated, the principal underlying cause
of Madagascar's food insecurity is unequal access to income earning opportunities by the poor. This
component has the dual objective of providing short-term employment to the poor and also helping
poor households and communities develop sustainable income generating activities. The income
generating activities will be divided into two major sub-components: FID and Urban Food-for-Work.
2.7           FID. ($10.8 million) The Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID) will
finance on a grant basis small projects and activities sponsored and undertaken mostly by NGOs and
local communities. FID will be a private non-profit association operating under a Board of Directors
elected or appointed by its members. It will receive project funds under a financing agreement with
the government. FID would specifically target the most vulnerable segments of society and would
initially fund projects in the provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary. The projects would be selected
according to specific criteria, and the internal administrative and financial management structures and
procedures would reflect those of the private sector and not those of the government. Annex I of this
report provides details on project selection criteria, legal structure and internal financial management
and administrative procedures to be used by FID.
2.8           FID will finance construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, income-
generating activities and private sector support progranis, including the development of grass-root
community groups and local NGOs. No projects over 100 million FMG (about US$55,000
equivalent) will be financed nor will FID finance recurrent activities, emergency projects, projects
already receiving funding from other sources, projects eliminated from government or local
authorities investment programs, projects that have a negative impact on the environment, and
projects that are too sophisticated or heavily mechanized.   As a general rule, the FID will not
implement projects itself, but rely on "operators", although the modalities of implementation will vary
depending on the types and costs of projects. The NGOs, local grassroots groups and communities
requesting funding for income-generating activities, private sector support programs and small
infrastructure projects (costing less than FMG 15 million), will be responsible for implementation and
will enter into contracts, if required, with consultants, artisans, small enterprises and suppliers. Their
rights and responsibilities as operators (including the schedule of disbursement of the grant, their
counterpart contribution, if any, and the procurement procedures that they will have to follow) will
be clearly defined in their contract with FID (protocole d'accord). For those types of projects, FID
will have a financing and monitoring role. For all other infrastructure projects, the FID will be
"Maitre d'Ouvrage Delegue", and will in all cases enter into contracts with small and medium scale



enterprises for the works. The FID will also contract with "operators", such as NGOs, technical
assistance projects and regional and local units of technical ministries to act as "MaItre d'Oeuvre";
however, for infrastructure projects costing more than FMG 50 million (about US$28,000 equivalent)
for which no operators can be identified, the FID will use local consultants as "Maitre d'Oeuvre".
FID will provide grants only and will not be a lending agency. However, for income-generating
activities, the operator will set up and manage a credit scheme for all investments benefitting
individuals and households, in order to have a revolving fund and ensure the sustainability of the
activities and programs. During the project period it is estimated that FID will help to create: (a)
about 2 million person-days of temporary employment on infrastructure projects; (b) provide about
100 contracts to small construction enterprises on infrastructure projects; (c) support 100 different
NGO-sponsored income-generating activities; and (d) help create permanent jobs through the private
sector development program. These estimates are tentative as FID will be demand-driven and it is
difficult to predict in advance the distribution among various types of projects. Year by year
quantitative targets for this component are given in Table 3.1.
2.9          Urban Food-for-Work. ($7.3 million) This program would address the acute food
insecurity in Greater Antananarivo by providing short-term food transfers to the poorest population
groups who will be recruited to maintain, rehabilitate community infrastructure in their own
neighborhoods. The program will be an expansion of the World Food Program's (WFP) existing
urban project and will intervene in 90 of the capital area's poorest fokontany (neighborhood/village)
during the first three years and may be extended to other fokontany in Antananarivo and other cities
during the remaining two years of the project. The works will: (a) be simple to execute, (b) require
non-skilled labor, and (c) be executed by the respective fokontany. WFP will be providing most of
the resources for the program along with some management assistance (IDA will not finance food).
An IEC campaign focusing on nutrition education will be targeted to the workers. The poorest
groups have been identified by a 1990-91 survey and further surveys to target the population will be
carried out during execution. The program would create over 3 million person days of employment
benefiting over 60,000 workers. The experience of the initial pilot project indicates that unemployed
women workers will be the major beneficiaries of this employment. Year by year quantitative targets
for this component are given in Table 3.1. Annex II provides further details on the urban Food-for-
Work program.
2.10         Role of IEC in Income-Generating Activities. IEC will be used to promote the FID
and will have a role at three levels: (a) to inform the target populations about the project and on how
to prepare proposals which will be eligible for FID financing; (b) to inform potential operators/groups
of the role they can play in assisting the target populations to get financing; and (c) to "sell" the FID
to policy-makers, and national and local opinion leaders. In order to achieve these objectives, the
project will have to develop a multi-media communication strategy which will not be based on the
mass media which in any case do not reach the target populations. The details of the proposed
strategy are included in Annex V. IEC will also be used to promote the Food-for-Work program. A
three pronged communication strategy will also be developed in collaboration with WFP.
Nutrition Program
2.11         Background and Justification. Madagascar's high child malnutrition rates which are
compounded by seasonal variations even in food surplus areas provide strong justification for a
nutrition program that focuses on prevention through timely food supplements and nutrition education.
It is also apparent that a pure feeding program, while it would prevent malnutrition in the short run,
would have little long-run impact. The Programme Communautaire de Nutrition (PCN) or
Community Nutrition Program is designed to help households make more efficient use of the



-9-
resources available to them to prevent chronic malnutrition among their children.  Feeding
supplementation would be a secondary objective of the program and cases of acute malnutrition will
need to be referred to nutrition rehabilitation centers. These programs would be run by the
community with support from an NGO contracted by the project's regional office. Nutrition activities
also include an Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Control Program or Lutte Contre les Troubles DL2s
aux Carences en lode (TDCI).
2.12         Community Nutrition Program. ($5.5 million) The community nutrition agents or
Agents Communautaires de Nutrition (ACN) are at the heart of the program and are chosen by the
community groups. They would organize mothers from the community with the support of a
community nutrition committee. The ACN would provide the following services to the community:
(a) nutrition surveillance of children 0 to 3 years of age to (i) identify malnourished children and (ii)
gather information for community analysis and assessment of the problem; (b) nutrition education
using participative training methods; (c) help the community become more organized; (d) provide
basic information on the FID and refer the community to the FID; (e) help moderately malnourished
children with a supplementary feeding program; and (f) refer severely malnourished children to the
nutrition rehabilitation centers run by the Ministry of Health. An agreement with the Ministry of
Health will be reached for monthly medical supervision of moderately malnourished children. 150
community nutrition centers will be set up in the province of Toliary, and food will be provided to
7 existing nutrition rehabilitation centers. In Antananarivo Province 100 community nutrition centers
will be set up and food will be provided to 2 existing nutrition rehabilitation centers. A manual
detailing how the program would be run (Livret du PCN) has been prepared for the ACN and another
one has been prepared for the supervisors. Another booklet will be given to the ACN on the FID
(with examples of projects that could have an impact on household food security and nutrition, and
basic information on the Fund). Supervisors have been identified by NGOs, and a small regional
project staff would be employed to supervise performance of the NGOs and make spot checks of the
community nutrition program. Year-by-year quantitative targets for this component are given in
Table 3.1. More details on this component is provided in Annex III.
2.13         Iodine Deficiency Disorders (DD) Control Program. ($0.7 million) The short term
strategy is to provide iodized oil capsules through the health system to children 0-4 years of age and
to women of child-bearing age while the long-term strategy is to iodize locally produced salt. The
program includes an operation research component to help keep it on track. The program has been
designed by the Ministries of Health and of Scientific Research and the Ministry of Health has
appointed a National IDD Coordinator. 876,000 capsules will be distributed to children and 374,000
to pregnant women. Furthermore, all other women of child-bearing age will be targeted whenever
they come into contact with the health services - specially during clinic visits or when they bring their
children to vaccinated. The targets for Year by year quantitative targets are in Table 3.1. The
project will finance iodine control activities through an executing agency arrangement with UNICEF.
A summary of the IDD control program is provided in Annex IV.
2.14         Role of IEC in support of Nutrition Activities. IEC will support nutrition activities
by: (a) promoting PCN among the target population; (b) supporting a program to increase awareness
of infant malnutrition; (c) supporting nutrition education through "social marketing"; and (d)
promoting (i) awareness of Iodine Deficiency Disorders and (ii) use of iodized salt. Results from the
Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) surveys and the beneficiary assessment surveys will be used
to develop IEC messages. Before being used in IEC campaigns, these messages will be tested among
the target population to ensure that they are well understood and that they convey the appropriate
concepts. The linkage between income-generating activities supported by FID and the community



- 10-
nutrition program will be addressed in IEC messages in order to create synergy between FID and
Community Nutrition Program.
Institutional Development Support
2.15         The project will support: (a) execution of an IEC program  which would be
underpinned by beneficiary assessment surveys; (b) preparation of a long-term National Food Security
Strategy; and (c) coordination of nutrition and poverty reduction efforts at regional and local levels
by setting up formal and informal structures.
2.16         IEC Program. ($0.8 million) The IEC program will support all the components of
the project providing the links between the various components to ensure that various activities are
complementary and that messages disseminated by the various components are harmonious. To
ensure this, the SECALINE IEC specialists (one in each province and one in the central office) will
develop a communication strategy for the project as a whole with provincially tailored activities. The
objectives of this communication strategy will be to: (a) inform decision makers about the project and
its objectives in order to motivate them to promote and support the project; (b) inform NGOs about
the project and their expected role in order to motivate them to assist community groups to develop
projects for the FID; and (c) mobilize potential beneficiaries in order to encourage them to participate
in and benefit from the various programs included in the project (FID, PCN, Food-for-Work). In
implementing this strategy care will be taken to ensure that: (a) materials used for communications
activities will be developed according to a proven methodology centered on the target audiences; (b)
messages concerning the various components of the project are harmonious and complementary; (c)
communication activities are monitored on a regular basis so that rumors of misinformation are dealt
with rapidly and that the project continues to be perceived positively; and (d) communication among
the personnel working on various components are harmonious and help to promote project objectives.
The IEC component will not only provide support to each of the project component, but also will be
an useful project management tool. Further details are in in Annex V.
2.17         National Food Security Strategy. ($0.3 million) This would help Madagascar design
a program of policies and actions to improve the country's food security in the long term. This
strategy should cover: (a) macroeconomic policies as they affect growth and poverty; (b) agriculture
and other sectoral development policies to assure that sectoral growth objectives are combined with
poverty reduction; (c) policies and actions to improve the basic health and nutrition status of the poor;
and (d) policies and actions designed to improve access by the poor to income earning opportunities.
The development of this strategy will be the responsibility of the National Coordinator and the Comite
Inter-ministeriel de Coordination du Projet SECALINE (CICS) with support from international and
national experts financed by the project. A draft strategy would be discussed in a national seminar
and the seminar recommendations would be presented to the authorities for adoption by the
government. Prior to Board presentation, a letter of development on food security policy dated
February 4, 1992 was received from the government (paragraph 5.2). The text of this letter is given
in Annex VII.
2.18         Local Coordination. The community nutrition program has been prepared in each of
the two target regions by working groups including NGOs, private sector and govermnent
representatives. These groups would serve as advisory groups which would: (a) advise the Regional
Coordinator; (b) help avoid duplication of activities; and (c) help the project management interpret
results from the beneficiary assessment surveys and reorient the project accordingly.



- 11 -
C. Project Costs and Financin
Costs
2.19         The project will be implemented over a four-year period. Total costs for the
proposed project are estimated at FMG 58,297 million (US$32.4 million equivalent). Base costs are
estimated at US$28.5 million equivalent and contingencies amount to US$3.9 million equivalent (12
percent of total project costs). In addition, taxes amount to US$ 0.9 and import duties amount to
US$ 1.1 (not included in project costs above). Foreign exchange costs account for US$12.4 million
or 38 percent of total project costs. Project costs by category of expenditure are summarized in Table
2.1 below and detailed cost tables are provided in Annex IX.
Table 2.1
Accounts Costs Summary
(in US$ million)
Local      Foreign         Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture, Material       1.1          2.3           3.3
B. TA, training and Studies                       3.1           1.5          4.6
C. FID projects                                   6.4          1.6           8.0
D. Infrastructure Rehabilitation                  2.0            -           2.0
E. Food                                           1.1          4.5           5.6
F. Transportation, storage and Handling           0.9            -           0.9
G. Project Preparation                            0.5           1.5          2.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           15.1         11.3          26.3
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs                                2.0          0.2           2.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                             16.9          11.5         28.5
Physical contingencies                           0.8          0.4           1.2
Price Contingencies                              2.2          0.5           2.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS                             20.0         12.4          32.4
Source: Appraisal Mission November 1992
* Figures may not add up due to rounding
2.20         Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent
for equipment, vehicles and materials. The following price contingencies have been included: (i)
on foreign exchange expenditures 3 % per annum and (ii) on local cost expenditures 10% in 1994 and
8% per annum thereafter.
2.21         Estimates for equipment, training, studies, and vehicles are based on previous
experience with other IDA-financed projects; estimates for food (including transportation and storage)
were prepared by WFP. Local salaries and travel allowances are based on current UNDP scales.
2.22         Project costs by component are shown in Table 2.2 below. The FID accounts for 38
percent of base costs, the Food-for-Work for 25 percent of base costs, the nutrition program for 22



- 12 -
percent of base cost, the IEC and food security strategy for 4 percent of base costs, project
management for 4 percent, and the PPF and Japan Grant for 7 percent of base costs.
Table 2.2
Project Cost Summary
(in US$ million)
Local         Foreign           Total
A. Income Generation Activities
1. FID Projects                                 8.0             2.8            10.8
2. Food-for-Work                                3.7             3.5             7.3
B. Nutrition
1. Community Nutrition Toliary                  2.2             1.3             3.6
2. Community Nutrition Antananarivo             1.1             0.8             1.9
3. Iodine Deficiency                            0.1             0.6             0.7
C. Institutional Development
1. IEC and Food Security Strategy               0.6             0.4             1.1
2. Project Management                           0.6             0.5             1.1
D. PPF and Japan Grant                            0.5              1.5            2.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                             16.9             11.5           28.5
Physical Contingencies                          0.8             0.4             1.2
Price Contingencies                             2.2             0.5             2.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                              20.0            12.4            32.4
Source: Appraisal Mission (November 1992)
* Figures may not add up due to rounding
2.23         Incremental Recurrent Costs: During the project period recurrent costs average
$500,000 per year for a total of $2.2 million. The long-run recurrent cost impact of the project will
be minimized because: (a) the FID projects will support (i) development of sustainable income
earning opportunities, (ii) infrastructure rehabilitation as a priority over new infrastructure, and (iii)
new infrastructure only when community groups have demonstrated their willingness to organize
maintenance; (b) the Community Nutrition Program will emphasize preventive approaches to
malnutrition and nutrition education programs would focus on how to improve the efficiency with
which existing resources can be used by the households; (c) the Iodine Deficiency Control Program
will stop subsidizing salt iodination once the health benefits have become apparent and households
are willing to pay extra for iodized salt; and (d) the Food-for-Work program will support maintenance
of community infrastructure. Furthermore, all the food costs in the program are covered by WFP
grants.
2.24         Prgect Sustainabiliqy. The project will help develop NGO and private sector capacity
to deliver social services and strengthen institutional capacity of local communities and grass-roots
groups to carry out development projects. The Community Nutrition program will provide nutrition
education directed at improving the efficiency with which households use available resources. The



- 13 -
recurrent costs of the community nutrition program are low and it is anticipated that eventually the
executing NGOs will be able to run the program themselves. The FID will help the vulnerable
households secure access to training and equipment to develop sustainable income generation
activities. The FID will also fund labor intensive works such as water supply if the communities
agree to provide for maintenance. Overall, the project is designed to help the poor acquire
productive assets and skills so that they may become more productive and benefit from economic
growth. It should be noted that parts of the project such as Food-for-Work are transfer programs
targeted to the most vulnerable and are not sustainable. Nevertheless, in view of Madagascar's deep-
rooted poverty, these are necessary to sustain the poor until strong economic growth removes the
need for these types of programs.
Financing
2.25            Of the total project costs of US $32.4 million, IDA would finance US$21.3 million.
Only parallel financing is envisaged under the project. WFP is expected to contribute US$7.3 million
which will finance: (a) all foodstuffs under the project; (b) 50% of the internal food transport costs;
(c) tools for the food-for-work program; and (d) cooking equipment for the community nutrition
program. The government is expected to contribute US$1.7 million and the beneficiaries US$1.2
million. UNICEF will contribute US$400,000 for the iodine component. A Japanese Grant
(US$500,000) has been made available to finance local and international consultants for the
preparatory work for the project. In addition, the government will ensure that taxes (US$900,000)
and import duties (US$1.1 million) are covered.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category in US $ imillion
IDA        World Fd__     UNICEF   J              L|   B nifJ    Government  j       Total
I Pfr_                                                               I              I
Am_oun   %            _    A=zA   Ammt            %    A Amunt    % Amount      % Amotnt   %    Amount   S
A.Eqpt..Veoi.,  3.0  73     0.8    12     0.4     9      0      0        0     0      0.0    0       4.1   13
Furn. ,Supp.                        I
B. Nuthi(tm   1.2  70        0     0       0      0      0      0       0.8   30       0     0       2.6    S
Ctr. Rehab.
C.Food          0    0      6.1   100      0      0      0      0        0     0       0     0       6.1   19
D.Trmng,      5.2  100       0     0       0      0      0      0        0     0       0     0       6.1   19
TA & Studies
EFood         0.4  50       0.4   5D       0      0      0      0        0     0       0     0       0.9    3
F.FID         6.8  85        0     0       0      0      0      0       0.4    5      0.8   10       2.0  25
Projedt 
G.Opering     1.9  68        0     0       0      0      0      0        0     0      0.9   32       2.6      l
Cots_
H.Poect       1.5  75        0     0       0      0     0.5   25         0     0       0      0      2.0    6
ToWI          21.3  66      7.3    2      0.4     1     0.5     2       1.2    4      1.7     5     32.4  100
Disbursement      I                                                              I
- ourte: AppraisS Mission, 11 orer, 1992



- 14 -
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
3.1          The proposed operation was identified in July, 1990 and project preparation was
carried out with financial support from a PPF advance which was provided in February 1991, while
the Japanese government provided two grants to support project preparation. The project was cleared
for appraisal in June 1991 but the appraisal mission was interrupted by political developments and
project preparation was stopped. In January 1992, the interim government abolished the government
directorate responsible for the project and decided to set up a project structure outside the central
administration reporting directly to the Prime Minister. The new structure was approved in June
1992 and the National Coordinator was named.  The new project management team has been
effective and a Bank mission worked in close collaboration with project management to help define
the final phase of preparation. Project preparation is now almost complete. Key staff have been
recruited and are performing satisfactorily.  Appraisal took place in November 1992 and a
supplemental PPF advance has been provided to support pilot activities and training until credit
effectiveness.  The transitional authorities have shown strong support for this project and for
independent project execution. Support for this type of poverty alleviation project is widespread
across the political spectrum.
B. Project Management
National Level
3.2          While many of the projects's activities are to be managed at the provincial level, the
National Coordinator, who reports to the Prime Minister and the inter-ministerial coordination
committee or Comite Inter-ministeriel de Coordination du Projet SECALINE (CICS), will have several
key responsibilities including coordination between the FID and other project components. The
National Coordinator will be responsible for: (a) coordinating all project activities; (b) supervising
the regional coordinators; (c) liaising with FID; (d) liaising with WFP on Food-for-Work Program
and supervising the executing agency recruited to manage the program; (e) coordinating the
development of a national food security strategy; (f) organizing the project financial management,
reporting and auditing system; (g) handling international procurement as well as large scale domestic
procurement; and (h) recruiting and supervising personnel. The National Coordinator will delegate
other responsibilities to the Regional Coordinators particularly for executing the Programme
Communautaire de Nutrition (PCN). The National Coordinator's office or Bureau d'Ex&ution du
Projet SECALINE (BPS) will be staffed by an Office Director responsible for procurement, day-to-day
management and backing up the coordinator as necessary; by an administrative and financial officer;
by an Accounting Officer; by an IEC specialist and a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) specialist;
and necessary support staff. In order to assure that the most competent staff are recruited and to
ensure a high level of productivity, staff will be recruited on one-year renewable contracts in most
cases, and their compensation will be in line with the UNDP scales for Malagasy staff. Terms of
reference for key staff are in Annex VI which addresses project management aspects. During
negotiations, assurances were received that the positions of National Coordinator, Office Director,
Administrative and Financial Officer, Accounting Officer, and IEC and M & E Specialists in the
BPS, will be filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to IDA (paragraph 5.4).
3.3          The FID has been set up as a non-profit association operating in accordance with the
provisions of its Articles of Agreement, By-laws and Manual of Procedures, and of the Framework



- 15 -
Agreement between FID and the government. FID will operate under a Board of Directors appointed
by its members. The Board of Directors will appoint an Executive Director from a short-list to be
prepared by a management consulting firm after an international search among Malagasy with strong
management skills living either in Madagascar or outside the country. The Executive Director will
appoint Regional Directors for the regions of Antananarivo and Toliary who would be responsible
for promoting, appraising and implementing projects within their region. In accordance with the
provisions of the Manual of Procedures, projects submitted for financing would have to be approved
by the Board of Directors, though projects costing less than 50 million FMG may be approved by
the Executive Director and those costing less than 10 million FMG by the Regional Director. The
operators (i.e. the NGOs and other entities requesting funding) would be supervised by FID staff.
FID staff would also be on hand to provide technical assistance, training and other support necessary
to the operators. During negotiations, it was agreed that at all times during project implementation:
(i) the articles of agreement, the manual of procedures and the by-laws of FID, and the Framework
Agreement between the government and FID will be acceptable to IDA, and (ii) the positions of
Executive Director and Regional Directors of FID will be filled at all times with personnel whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 5.4). Prior to negotiations, the
government and FID provided satisfactory evidence of the constitution of the Association with articles
of agreement and by-laws acceptable to IDA (paragraph 5.1). The draft of the Framework
Agreement and the the Manual of Procedures were discussed and agreed to during negotiations
(paragraph 5.3). Prior to Board presentation the decree recognizing FID as a public service
association (association reconnue d 'utilite publique) was signed (paragraph 5.2). The signing of the
Framework Agreement, the formal adoption of the Manual of Procedures by FID and the appointment
of an Executive Director and two Regional Directors for FID would be conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (paragraph 5.5).
3.4          The Food-for-Work program will be executed in cooperation with the target fokontany
(village or neighborhood local government) with technical and logistical support from an International
Labor Office (ILO) technical assistance team which would be recruited to manage the program. The
ILO team will plan, execute and manage all the logistics with support from WFP Project Officer and
the BPS. The actual transportation will be contracted to private firms.
3.5          The Iodine Deficiency Disorders control program would be executed by UNICEF
working in collaboration with the Ministries of Health and Scientific Research. Private sector salt
manufacturers and distributors have been involved in preparation and will receive support enabling
them to iodize salt.
3.6          The IEC campaign will be managed in partnership between the National Coordinator
and the Regional Coordinators with the IEC specialist in the BPS being responsible for assuring
overall coordination. The beneficiary assessment surveys which will play an important role in
determining the contents of the IEC messages will be carried out by teams working under the
Regional Coordinators.  The National IEC specialist, in addition to being responsible for
coordination, will focus on the national aspects of the IEC campaign and help the National
Coordinator communicate project objectives to decision makers and to the population at large. The
Regional IEC specialists will focus on developing and communicating messages appropriate to the
area working closely with the NGOs executing the PCN and the regional offices of FID. IEC
communication materials will be produced under contract by Malagasy entities, public or private,
under supervision of project IEC staff.
3.7          The National Coordinator and the Comite Inter-ministeriel de Coordination du Projet
SECALINE (CICS) will be responsible for coordinating the development of a long-term Food Security



- 16 -
Strategy for the country. He will recruit an international research institute or consulting firm with
expertise in the area and attach the group to a Malagasy research institute. The international experts
and CICS will develop a draft strategy for presentation and eventual adoption by the govermment.
Regional and Community Level
3.8          The Regional Coordinators have been appointed by the Prime Minister and report to
the National Coordinator who delegate to them: (a) execution of PCN in the region; (b) management
of the regional IEC campaign; and (c) supervision of the beneficiary assessment surveys. The
Regional Coordinator will provide all necessary support for FID operations within the province and
assure coordination between FID and the PCN; he will also be a member of the Regional Advisory
Committee of FID. The Regional Coordinator will be assisted by a Regional PCN Specialist, a
Regional IEC Specialist and an Accountant, in addition to necessary support staff. During
negotiations, assurances were received that the positions of Regional Coordinators, PCN and IEC
Specialists and Accountants, will be filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 5.4).
3.9          The Regional Coordinator's primary responsibility will be to assure that the PCN is
well implemented within the province. He/She will identify potential NGOs and draw-up PCN
execution arrangements with them. The NGOs will be responsible for supporting PCN activit es in
the field which would be implemented according to the manual (Livret du PCN). The NGOs will visit
communities to explain the objectives of PCN and help groups of interested mothers in the
communities to organize and run the program. A lead volunteer would be selected by the mothers
from among themselves. This lead volunteer would be trained by the project to be a Community
Nutrition agent or Agent Communautaire de Nutrition (ACN). The ACN would be given food rations
(financed by WFP) in compensation and would be the program's focal point in the community. The
cash value of these rations would be more than the prevailing wages in the area and would serve as
a strong incentive. The other mothers in the group would also receive some compensation in food
for the time they spend doing tasks like cooking, cleaning etc.. The ACNs would be supervised by
staff from the NGO who would be provided with motor-cycles. The Regional PCN Specialist would
make random inspections of the nutrition centers and supervise the NGOs executing the program.
If the work-load becomes too heavy a second Regional PCN Specialist would be recruited after
consultations with IDA. A draft community Nutrition Manual was presented before negotiations
(paragraph 5.1).
3.10         The ACN, with help from the NGO Supervisor, would mobilize the community to
prepare proposals for income generation projects and local infrastructure projects to the FID for
funding. The NGO could also become the "operator' (executing agency) for the project and work
with the community to execute it. All projects would have be approved by the FID according to the
manual of procedures.
3.11         The Nutritional Rehabilitation Centers (CRTs) are managed by the Ministry of Health
and are located at or near medical facilities because nutritional rehabilitation requires medical
supervision. They would take referrals of acutely malnourished children from the community
nutrition centers and send them back to their communities once rehabilitated.
Project Implementation Manuals
3.12         A detailed implementation manual has been developed for FID which includes: (a)
project selection procedures; (b) project execution guidelines; (c) sample executing agency



- 17 -
agreements; (d) sample bidding documents; and (e) internal administrative procedures for FID. This
manual, which has been discussed in detail with the government and with FID, will facilitate
execution of this component.
3.13         The Livret du PCN also provides detailed guidance on how to execute the community
nutrition programs. It is supplemented by model contracts between: (a) the project and the NGOs
executing the PCN; (b) the NGOs and the communities requesting nutrition centers; and (c) the NGOs
and their supervisors. These documents, which clearly delineate the responsibilities of all involved,
were agreed upon during negotiations and will facilitate the execution of the PCN component.
3.14         Guidelines delineating the responsibilities of various parties (Bank, SECALINE
project, WFP and communities) involved in the Food-for-Work have also been developed and agreed
upon during appraisal.
C. Project Monitorine and Evaluation
3.15         A monitoring system will be set up to provide the National Coordinator with prompt
and timely answers to the following questions concerning project execution:(a) are activities
implemented as planned, on schedule and within budget? (b) are activities reaching the intended
beneficiaries? (c) are activities producing the expected outputs? (d) are activities leading to exr xted
(immediate) effects? and (e) what is (probably) causing delays or unexpected effects? Monitoring is
an essential part of any good management system geared towards management by objectives, which
will commonly include the following information-related elements, all of which contribute to
monitoring: (a) general accounting; (b) cost accounting; (c) audits (financial, management and
technical); (d) periodic management reporting; (e) supervision visits; (f) diagnostic 'problem-solving'
studies; (g) beneficiary feedback; and (h) communication (internal and external). It is evident that
a monitoring system is closely tied to a regularly audited well functioning accounting and financial
management system. The details of the monitoring system are discussed in Annex VII.
3.16         The monitoring system which provides timely information has to be complemented
by an evaluation system which examines the impact of the project vis-a-vis its objectives in order to
allow informed adjustment of policies and objectives during the course of the project. Evaluation is
monitoring at a higher 'strategic level' but with a time-frame of a year or so and since the emphasis
is much more on the analysis of beneficiary characteristics, behavior and interaction, the data needs
are more complex. Two types of evaluations are planned to allow smooth implementation of this
project: (a) on-going spot evaluations of certain activities such as FID projects or PCN impact within
a community, and (b) annual reviews, and a detailed mid-term evaluation.
3.17         Table 3.1 shows the targets which should be monitored. These targets are tentaLive
particularly for the FID because it is expected to respond to demand for different types of projects
and it is therefore difficult to predict the final distribution among them.  The targets for the
Community Nutrition Program are also likely to change particularly in the out-years as the program
will respond to demand from communities rather than rely on vertical planning and execution. The
percent coverage for growth monitoring may exceed 100% due to anticipated leakage to older
children though individual centers will be evaluated on their performance among the 0-3 year old
children. The coverage rate within the immediate catchment area of each PCN site is likely to be
over 80% of children 0-3.



- 18 -
Table 3.1
Project Monitoring Wdicators
Co11pontCRlnM                                         1993-94             1994-95            1995-96        1996-97        Total
MID
1. Small Scale Infmudruct
a. Persn Days of Temp.Emplnyment                    388,000            446,000             513,000        593,000    1,904,000
b. Coractb witb Snll Enterpris                           is                 21                  24            28            91
2. Income Generating Activities Contact
with NGOs                                                  25                 25                  25             25          125
3. Petmunent Jobs Created brough Privte
Sector upport projects                                    300                400                 600            600        1,900
Urban-Food-for-Word
I. Numberof Beneficiaries                              10,4S4              11,368             14,066         16,889       62,807
2. Person Days of Employment                          629,062             682,100            843,975      1,013,350    3,168,487
Community Nutuition Toliary
1. Populatin of Trget Fnvondronona                    556,253            571,272             586,696        602,537
2. No. of New Caute  to be eablihed                        30                 30                  40             50          150
3. No. of Chi;dren in Growth Monioring                  18,240             36,840             60,800         91,200      207,080
4. No. of Children in Supplmetal Feeding                 2,700              5,400              9,000         13,500       30,600
5. No. of Children Referred for Nutritional
Rehabilitation                                            912               1,824              3,040          4,560       10,336
6.Growth Surveillance Coverage Rate -
Percent of Children 0-3 in Taret
Fivondronana                                             27%                53%                 86%           126%
7. Percent Reduction in Malnutriion Rate in
target fivodrononw                                                           10%                19%            31%
Community Nutrition Antananrivo
1. Population of Target Fivonronon                    1,038,00          1,066,026          1,094,809      1,124,369
2. No. of New Cente  to be etebrib                          5                 10                  35             50          100
3. No. of Children in Gowth Montoring                   3,040               9,120             30,400         60,800      103,360
4. No. of Children in Supplemental Feding                 450               1,350              4,500          9,000       15,300
5. No. of Children Referred for Nutritiol
Rehabilitation                                            152                456               1,520          3,040        5,168
6.Growth Surveillance Coverage Rate as
Percent of Children 0-3 in Taget
Fivondronana                                              2%                 7%                 23%            45%
7. Percent Reduction an Malnutrition Rate in
target fivondronone                                                           IX                 3 %            8 %
Iodine Deficiency Disordes Control
1. No. of Children Receiving Capsle                   336,000             120,000            240,000        180,000      876,000
2. No. of Pregnt Women Receiving                       93,600              93,600             93,600         93,600      374,400
Infonnation Educatro ad Communication         KAP urveys nd        Launch natona        Second Round
(IEC)                                               benediciay    IEC campaign to         Benefcicuy
_ssesab  to develop        comnunicate          Assesment
nutrition nessges    project objectives        Survey _
Natonal Food Security Strategy                Identify experts to   CICS preent          Government
support CICS     draft Sreat  to     adopt sategy
government
3.18                 As part of the supervision of the project, joint IDA/government reviews of project
implementation would be carried out on an annual basis to examine progress, discuss the results of
the previous year's work program and agree on the following year's work program and budget.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the annual review of project implementation will be held not
later than September 30 of each year on the basis of appropriate documentation to be prepared by the
BPS and FID (paragraph 5.4). A more detailed mid-term review will examine progress on the
various project components comparing actual results with anticipated outcomes, in order to decide
-   -   -   - - - - - - - -   - -   - -   - - - - -



- 19 -
whether and how to continue, modify or eliminate project components or parts thereof. The most
important issues to be covered during the mid-term review are discussed in Annex VII. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the government will: (i) carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term
review of the progress of the project not later than June 30, 1996, (ii) submit to IDA a report
evaluating the project's progress not later than four weeks prior to such review, and (iii) implement
the recommendations of the mid-term review (paragraph 5.4). The recruitment of a M & E Specialist
in the BPS is a condition of credit effectiveness (paragraph 5.5).
D. Procurement
3.19             Table 3.2 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Element                                                                             Total
I.C.B.      L.C.B.      Other         N.B.F.           Cost
1. Works
1.1 FID Infrastructure                          3.7           1.1                          4.8
Projects                                         (3.2)        (0.9)                        (4.1)
2.6                                       2.6
1.2 Nutrition Center                             (1.8)                                     (1.8)
Rehabilitation
2. Goods                             2.2         1.0          0.9                          4.1
2.1 Equipment/vehicles               (1.1)       (1.0)        (0.9)                        (3.0)
and materials
0.6          1.0                          1.6
2.2 FID Equipment                                (0.5)        (0.8)                        (1.3)
3.  Service Contracts                            0.9                                       0.9
3.1 Food Transportation                          (0.5)                                     (0.5)
4.  Services                                                 4.8                           4.8
4.1 Technical Assistance                                      (4.8)                        (4.8)
1.0                          1.0
4.2 Training and studies                                      (1.0)                        (1.0)
1.6                          1.6
4.3 FID Training                                              (1.4)                        (1.4)
5.  NiscelLareous
2.9                          2.9
5.1 Incremental Operating Costs                               (1.9)                        (1.9)
6.1           6.1
5.2 Food 
2.0                          2.0
5.3 PPF Advance and Japan Grant                               (1.5)                        (1.5)
TOTAL
Baink financed            2.2        8.8          15.3          6.1            32.4
(1.1)      (7.0)        (13.2)        -              (21.3)
Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by 1DA
3.20             The main objective of this project is to alleviate poverty by:  (a) reducing food
insecurity and malnutrition; (b) providing food in exchange for work; and (c) by putting in place a
mechanism whereby NGOs and other grassroots groups can undertake small scale development
projects (such as small scale labor intensive public works, training for grass roots groups and
development of micro-enterprises). Procurement would be responsive to these objectives. Amounts



- 20 -
for civil works, equipment and training for FID projects are shown separately. As mentioned earlier,
the maximum cost of a FID project is 100 million FMG or about US $ 55,000 equivalent.
3.21         Country Procurement Assessment.   Madagascar's cumbersome procurement
regulations were a major constraint to the implementation of Bank-financed projects. This was due
to the fact that many ministries performed numerous reviews. In January 1991, Government issued
new regulations on public procurement following a comprehensive review of the country's
procurement regulations (Country Implementation Review (CIR), December 1990). A follow-up CIR
occurred in March 1992, resulting in the Government's decision to use Bank Sample Bidding
Documents (Prime Minister's decree No. 892/92, March 6, 1992). This is expected to speed up
procurement and project implementation considerably.
3.22         Civil Works. The target group of firms expected to participate in procurement of
civil works comprises small and micro-enterprises since they are more likely than larger firms to bid
for labor-intensive work projects.  Civil Works undertaken through the FID will include:
rehabilitation of small roads, reforestation, communal water supply systems, and community
infrastructures such as markets and health centers. In order to respond to the poverty alleviation
objective of this project, the works will: (a) be undertaken in the poorest areas of the country which
are food insecure; (b) be labor-intensive so as to employ as many workers as possible; and (c) be
executed by small and micro-enterprises, and artisans. Consequently, ICB is not considered an option
for contracting these works because they are small, labor-based, scattered and will be executed by
many different entities in remote areas.
3.23         For works procured through LCB, tenders will be advertised locally, bidders would
be given 30 days for submission of bids, evaluation criteria will be specified, all bids will be opened
in the presence of bidders' representatives, no preference margin will be allowed for national
contractors, eligible foreign contractors will be allowed to participate in the bidding process, and
standard bidding documents will be used. Contracts for works awarded through LCB for FID
projects will range in size from US$10,000 to US$55,000 with a total aggregate amount not to exceed
US$3.7 million (IDA US$3.2 million). Smaller FID contracts ranging in size from US$3,000 to
US$10,000 will be awarded to local craftsmen on the basis of price quotations with an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$1.1 million (IDA $0.9 million). The grouping of these contracts will not
be possible because it will involve different operators, different beneficiaries in different locations.
For the rehabilitation of nutrition centers, contracts for LCB will range in size from US$10,000 to
US$50,000 with a total aggregate amount not to exceed US$2.6 million (IDA US$1.8 million).
3.24         QGods. Equipment, vehicles and materials will be purchased by ICB with an
aggregate amount estimated at US$2.2 million (IDA $1.1 million). To the extent possible, contracts
will be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost US$300,000 or more. Qualifying domestic
suppliers will be given a 15 percent margin of preference, or applicable customs duty (whichever is
less) over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods. Contracts ranging in size from US$50,000 to
US$300,000 will be procured through LCB with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1 million
(IDA only). Contracts below US$50,000 for furniture, equipment and supplies for the nutrition
centers and for the Food-for-Work component (food will not be financed by IDA) will be procured
by local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA with a minimum of 3 price quotations up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$900,000 (IDA only). Regarding equipment for the FID projects,
contracts ranging in size from US$10,000 to US$55,000 will be procured through LCB procedures
with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$600,000 (IDA US$500,000). Contracts below
US$10,000 will be diverse in size and in type of goods (sewing machines, carpentry tools, etc) and



- 21 -
will be procured through local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA with an aggregate amount not
to exceed US$1.0 million (IDA US$0.8 million).
3.25         Expert Services. Studies. and Training. Technical Assistance (US$ 4.8 million),
training (US$ 1 million), FID training (USS 1.6 million) consultants will be selected in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency (Washington, D.C. August 1981). Local training per diems not exceeding US$
200,000 will be paid in accordance with UNDP local scales. The ILO will be recruited to manage
the Food-for-Work program as a single source due to their previous experience with labor intensive
works in Madagascar.
3.26         Incremental Operating Costs. US$2.9 million, IDA (US$1.9 million). Whenever
possible local shopping will be used for the purchase of office supplieswith an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$ 100,000. Each contract will not exceed US$5,000. Local shopping will not be
possible for fuel and utilities as their prices are set by government controlled parastatals.
3.27         Bank's Procurement Review. During project supervision, Bank-financed works
contracts above a threshold of US$40,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures.
Goods contracts or packages above US$40,000 will also be subject to prior review. Selective post
review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried out on about 1 in 4 contracts
civil works and 1 in 10 goods contracts. During negotiations, it was agreed that the BPS and FID
will use IDA's standard bidding documents for goods and services and the standard letter for the
recruitment of consultants (paragraph 5.4).
3.28         Procurement Management.  The BPS will be responsible for overseeing all
administrative, managerial and financial aspects of the project including all procurement with the
exception of the FID which will handle its own procurement. Local staff have already received
formal Bank procurement training abroad and a local procurement specialist has been hired. Bidding
documents, technical specifications and quantities will either be prepared by the procurement
personnel in the FID or by the procurement specialist in the BPS in collaboration with the respective
executing units.
3.29         The implementation schedule is provided in Table 3.3 below, from which the
estimated disbursement schedule (Annex X! has been derived.



- 22 -
Table 3.3
Implementation Schedule
(Amounts in US $ million)
Project Element                  Prr-            Project Year            Total     Remarks
project                                  Payment
1      2      3        4
Loan Timlng
SigriEffec/Close                   _      *
Civil Works
Prequal/Bid/Award                         **      **       **
FID Infrastr. Project                     1.1    1.1      1.2      1.4       4.8  80% LCB; 20% IS/LS
Nutrition Center Rehabilitation          0.4    0.4       0.7      1.1       2.6  100% LCB
Goods
Equipment/Vehicles                        1.8    0.6      0.8      0.9       4.1  55% ICB; 25% LCB; 20% IS/LS
FID Equipment                            0.3    0.4       0.4      0.5       1.6  100% LCB
Service contracts
Food Transportation                      0.1    0.2       0.3      0.4       1.0  100% LCB
Consultancies
Compl. Std.
Bidding Documentb                  **
Technical Assistance                      1.2    1.2      1.2      1.2       4.8  Bank Guidelines for consultants
Training                                 0.3    0.3       0.3      0.3       1.0
FID Training                             0.3    0.3       0.4      0.4       1.4
Miscellaneous
Incremental Oper. cost                   0.7    0.7       0.7      0.8       2.9  100% LS
Food                                      1.1    1.3      1.7      2.1       6.2  Financed by W.F.P.
**     **       **       **        0.0
PPF Advance Refinancing                  2.0                                 2.0
TOTALS                                   9.3    6.5       7.6      9.1      32.4
Sou rce: AIppraisal Mission, November, 1992
3.30   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the BPS and the FID indicating: (i)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project costs, (ii) revised timing
of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time
for individual contracts, (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement, and (iv) compliance of procurement with the manual of procedures as well as
systematic review of procurement procedures; and
(c) a completion report by the government within six months of the credit closing date.



- 23 -
E. Disbursement
3.31            The proposed IDA credit of SDR 15.5 million (US$ 21.3 million) will be disbursed
in accordance with Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories
(Percentages below refer to amounts without taxes)
US $       Percentage
1. Equipment, Vehicles, furniture and other materials    2.5  100%
2. TA, Trg and studies                                   3.2  100%
3. FID
A. FID projects                                         7.5  85% of total costs
B. TA, Training studies                                  1.5  100% of total cosa
C. Equipment, Vehicles, furniture and other materials    0.5  100% of total costs
D. Operating costs                                       0.7  100% of total costs
4. Infrastructure rehab.                                  1.5  70% of total costs
5. Transportation, Shipping & Handling                   0.5  100% of total costa
6. Incremental Operating Expenditures                    0.8  70% of total costs
7. PPF Advance                                           1.5
8. UnaHlocated.                                          1.1
TOTAL                                                   21.3
3.32            Category 3.D. and category 6 (incremental operating expenses) includes operating
expenditures for FID, the community nutrition programs, the food for work program, and the
National Coordinator's Office.
3.33            Contracts for goods, civil works and services or single purchases of less than
US$20,000 will be submitted against statements of expenditure (SOE). All disbursements will be
fully documented by the BPS and FID respectively in a manner acceptable to IDA. The SOEs and
all records such as contracts, orders, invoices, and payroll vouchers will be retained by the National
Coordinator's Office and the FID who will be responsible for maintaining this information in a
manner that would facilitate inspection by supervision missions and for review by the external audit.
An accounting structure is in the process of being set up under PPF financing (a financial officer and
an accounting officer have already been hired).   They will be responsible for monitoring
disbursements and compiling the financial information (on a quarterly basis) obtained from the
various executing agencies. It is anticipated that the FID will also be recruiting a financial manager
and an accountant to perform the same tasks. The accounting officer of the BPS will be the primary
liaison between IDA and the borrower for all issues pertaining to disbursements and accounting under
this project. The credit closing date will be July 31, 1998. The estimated quarterly schedule of
disbursement is in Annex X.



- 24 -
3.34         Special Accounts and Project Accounts. To ensure that funds for this project are
readily available and to facilitate disbursements, two special accounts denominated in US$, one for
FID and one for the BPS, will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocations of the Special Accounts would be US$700,000 for the FID Special Account and
US$500,000 for the BPS Special Account, representing IDA's anticipated share of eligible
expenditures for three months. IDA would make an initial deposit of those amounts from the
proposed credit immediately upon credit effectiveness. Replenishment of the Special Accounts would
be made on the basis of full documentation except for contracts valued at less than US$20,000
equivalent, which would be against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The documentation for
withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the BPS and FID for review by IDA staff during
supervision missions and for regular audits. The Government will open in a financial institution two
project accounts (one for FID, and one for BPS for all other project components) to cover its
counterpart contribution to the project. Those accounts will be replenished quarterly. During
negotiations, it was agreed that those two project accounts will be in a financial institution acceptable
to IDA and replenished quarterly based on justification of expenditures (paragraph 5.4). Initial
deposits by the Government of the equivalent in Malagasy francs of US$75,000 in each of the two
project accounts will be a condition of credit effectiveness (paragraph 5.5).
3.35          Financial Reporting. Accounting and Auditing Arrangements. BPS and FID staff
will establish and maintain project related accounts for their respective interventions. They will be
responsible for compiling and then consolidating the necessary accounting documents from the various
executing agencies. Such accounts shall be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally
recognized accounting principles and practices that are satisfactory to IDA. These two entities will
provide annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the project.
An auditor's opinion with special emphasis on the audit of SOEs and report satisfactory to IDA on
such statements will be provided. The auditor's report will include a statement on the inadequacy
or otherwise of the accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of statements of
expenditures as a basis for credit disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. In the case
of FID, there will also be a management audit to ensure compliance with the manual of procedures
and a technical audit for quality control. It was agreed during negotiations that the frequency of the
audit and the period for the submission of audit reports will be as follows: (a) for the BPS: annual
audit, with audit report to be submitted within six months of the close of the fiscal year; (b) for FID:
(i) financial audits - quarterly for the first two quarters, then semi-annually, with audit reports to be
submitted within three months of the end of the period, and (ii) technical and management audits -
every year with audit reports to be submitted within three months of the close of the fiscal year
(paragraph 5.4). The foregoing accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements should
provide adequate and timely information to IDA for project supervision. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the government and FID will submit the audit reports with the above mentioned
frequency.
3.36         An accounting/audit firm to design the financial management and accounting system
was selected before negotiations. This will allow the accounting systems to be fully operational for
the BPS and the FID by the time this credit becomes effective. The accounting firm recruited under
PPF financing will design a computerized accounting system for all project components taking into
account the decentralized nature of project activities. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the proposed accounting system will be responsive to IDA's accounting requirements. The
adoption of an accounting and financial management system acceptable to IDA and the appointment
of auditors acceptable to the Bank for the first three years would be conditions for effectiveness.



- 25 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1          The proposed project would alleviate poverty and reduce malnutrition. By providing
the poor with access to income earning opportunities, it would not only help them escape from
poverty but also contribute to national output. Labor intensive works financed by the FID would also
have development benefits over and beyond immediate job creation. The project would help improve
the capacity of NGOs and community groups. Component specific benefits are described below.
4.2          The FID would benefit the poorest segments of the population by financing: (a) labor
intensive works to generate employment in the poorest areas of the country; (b) long term sustainable
income generation activities; and (c) training and other support to help develop grass-roots
development groups. The direct job creation effect is going to be highest for labor intensive works
though the jobs would be temporary. Labor intensive works would also help develop local
infrastructure and promote development. FID projects are expected to: (a) through labor-based
works, create 1.9 million person-days of employment and provide 91 contracts to small enterprises
to help their development; (b) support 25 NGO-run income-generating activities annually targeted
to the poorest; and (c) help create permanent jobs through micro-enterprises development. These
estimates are based on a certain assumption of the distribution of FID projects, however as FID will
be demand-driven, this distribution may change.
4.3          Food-for-Work is designed to be a temporary transfer program to address the acute
poverty in Greater Antananarivo but it would help create some community infrastructure such as
solid-waste bins. The program would create 4.2 million person/days of employment over five years
targeted to the poorest workers (the majority women) in the poorest fokontany.
4.4          Community Nutrition Program. It will take a preventive/public health approach to
reducing malnutrition through emphasizing growth monitoring, nutrition education and supplemental
feeding to keep nutrition problems under control and to help households better use existing resources.
This means that households will be better able to prevent malnutrition even without the aid of the
project. By the end of the project 91,200 children will be monitored in Toliary which is almost
universal coverage for the 8 target fivondronona and another 30,600 children will have undergone
supplemental feeding. Through these activities, the malnutrition rates in the target fivonodronona are
expected to be reduced from about 30% to 21%. The objectives for the province of Antananarivo
include growth monitoring for 60,800 children in the five target fivondronona which gives a coverage
rate of over 60% and 15,300 children 0-3 in Antananarivo will benefit from supplemental feeding.
In view of the denser population and lower coverage rate for Antananarivo malnutrition rates are
expected to be reduced somewhat less than in Toliary. These figures are indicative and may change
as the project intends to follow a beneficiary-led demand-driven approach.
4.5          Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Program would reduce at a very low cost
($0.11/person) a problem that is prevalent in Madagascar and is the cause of much morbidity. By
reducing the prevalence of iodine deficiency related disorders, significant savings in public and
private health care expenditures would be achieved.
4.6          IEC program will help to communicate messages designed to improve the food
security and nutritional status of the population. The development and adoption of a National Food
Security Strategy would help the country reduce its food insecurity in the long-run.



- 26 -
B. Risks
4.7           The main risk is implementation delay that could result from inadequate management.
This will be minimized by setting up a project management structure outside the administration and
following private sector rules. There is a risk resulting from the political transition process which
may have a blocking effect on key activities. Several pre-conditions for the project emphasize steps
to be taken with respect to project management. Component specific risks are described below. The
political risk political is reduced by the fact that this type of poverty program enjoys support across
the political spectrum.
4.8           There is a risk of conflict between two potentially strong institutional entities: the BPS
and the FID. This risk will be reduced by the National Coordinator of SECALINE being appointed
as the Prime Minister's representative on the Board of FID. The execution, supervision and
coordination responsibilities described in Annex VI are also designed to avoid such conflict by clearly
delineating decision authority and reporting responsibility.
4.9           FID. In addition to implementation delay mentioned earlier, the major risk of this
component is its unsustainability in the long-run. The funding for the types of projects the FID
would support, particularly the labor intensive works, is heavily dependent on donor support and is
unlikely to be financed by the government budget. Another potential risk is that the FID becomes
a non-performing public sector agency at the end of the project. These risks are minimized by: (a)
targeting the poor by using strict project selection criteria; (b) supporting the development of grass-
roots development groups which focus on self-help; (c) financing training and technical assistance to
develop sustainable income earning opportunities such as microenterprises; and (d) by setting up the
FID not as a public enterprise but as a private non-profit association.
4.10          Food-for-Work. Specific risks includes (a) logistical problems in moving food from
port to work-sites; (b) limited capacity of fokontany authorities; (c) poor coordination between the
BPS, WFP, the consulting firm/NGO and local authorities; (d) leakage of benefits to the non-poor;
and (e) effect of importing about 9,000 tons of rice i.e. about 2,000 tons a year, on domestic
producer prices. The logistical risks are minimized by contracting the private sector to store and
transport the material. The risk from limited fokontany capacity is minimized by hiring a consulting
firm/NGO to provide logistical and technical support. The risk of lack of coordination is minimized
by elaborating procedural guidelines setting out the responsibilities of each of the parties. The risk
of leakage is minimized by (i) targeting the poorest fokontany and (ii) the difficult and unappealing
(cleaning drains etc.) nature of the work. The risk of distorting rice markets is not great because
: (i) 2,000 tons represents less than 0.2% of total rice supplies in the market and (ii) the rice will be
targeted to the poorest parts of the population who would otherwise not have the purchasing power
to buy the rice.
4.11          Community Nutrition Program. Specific risks include: (a) non-responsiveness to the
needs of the beneficiary communities; (b) creating dependence on food aid; and (c) logistical
problems of running a program in vulnerable and sometimes inaccessible areas. The first risk will
be minimized by (i) running the program through volunteer mothers recruited from the community,
(ii) recruiting community nutrition worker (ACN) from the community, and (iii) beneficiary
assessment surveys. The second risk will be minimized by emphasizing (i) nutrition surveillance, (ii)
preventive feeding supplementation as necessary rather than regular meals, and (iii) nutrition
education focusing on more efficient use of materials already available to the households. The
logistical risk will be minimized by (i) using an NGO familiar with the area to execute the program,



- 27 -
(ii) relying as much as possible on locally purchased materials, and (iii) giving as much decision
making independence as possible to the ACNs and their immediate supervisors.
4.12         Iodine Deficiency Disorders aDD) Control Program. Specific risks are: (a) private
salt producers may become dependent on subsidies to iodize salt; (b) public may be unwilling to pay
slightly more for iodized salt; and (c) some may be allergic to iodine. The first would be minimized
by phasing subsidies out over time as more and more of the salt in the market is iodized. The second
would be minimized by initially subsidizing iodized salt so that it costs the same as non-iodized salt.
By the time the subsidies on iodized salt are phased out, the health benefits should be evident.
4.13         Institutional Development. Specific risks are: (a) inappropriate IEC messages; and
(b) a long term food security strategy that does not reflect a consensus. These risks are minimized
by use of KAP and beneficiary assessment surveys to develop IEC messages and by supporting a
national seminar to discuss the recommendations of the working group on food security strategy.
V. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1          Before negotiations the government and FID provided evidence of the following:
(a)    Constitution of the Association (FID) with articles of agreement and by-laws
acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.3);
(b)    Preparation of a Community Nutrition Manual - Livret du PCN (paragraph 3.9);
(c)    Selection of an accounting/auditing firm for the design and implementation of
accounting and financial management systems (paragraph 3.36).
5.2          Prior to Board presentation the government:
(a)   submitted to IDA a letter on food security policy dated February 4, 1993 (paragraph
2.17); and
(b)    signed a decree recognizing FID as a public service association (paragraph 3.3).
5.3          During negotiations, the draft of the Framework Agreement between government and
the FID and the Manual of Procedures were discussed and agreed upon (paragraph 3.3).
5.4          During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)    The positions of National Coordinator, Office Director, Administrative and Financial
Officer, Accounting Officer, and IEC and M & E specialists in the BPS, will be
filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to IDA (paragraph 3.2);
(b)    The articles of agreement, the by-laws and the manual of procedures of FID, and the
Framework Agreement between the government and the FID will be at all times
acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.3);



- 28 -
(c)    The positions of Executive Director and Regional Directors of FID will be filled at
all times with personnel having qualifications and experience and satisfactory to IDA
(paragraph 3.3);
(d)    The positions of Regional Coordinators and regional PCN and IEC specialists and
accountants will be filled at all times with personnel whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 3.8);
(e)    The borrower will carry out, jointly with IDA, an annual review of project
implementation not later than September 30 of each year, on the basis of an
appropriate documentation that would also include the proposed work program and
budget for the following year (paragraph 3.18);
(f)    The borrower will: (i) carry out, jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the progress
of the project not later than June 30, 1996; (ii) submit to IDA a report by consultants
evaluating the project's progress not later than four weeks prior to such review; and
(iii) implement the recommendations of the mid-term review (paragraph 3.18);
(g)    The borrower will use IDA's standard bidding documents for goods and services; and
the standard letter for the recruitment of consultants (paragraph 3.27);
(h)    The borrower will maintain in a financial institution acceptable to IDA project
accounts (one for FID and one for BPS) to cover its counterpart contribution to the
project and replenish those accounts quarterly (paragraph 3.34); and
(i)    The borrower will submit to IDA, audit reports as follows: (a) for the BPS: annual
audit, with audit report to be submitted within six months of the close of the fiscal
year; (b) for FID: (i) financial audits - quarterly for the first two quarters, then
semi-annually, with audit reports to be submitted within three months of the end of
the period, and (ii) technical and management audits - every year with audit reports
to be submitted within three months of the close of the fiscal year (paragraph 3.35).
5.5          The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a)   the appointment of an Executive Director and two regional directors of FID, the
signing of the Framework Agreement between the government and FID, and the
adoption by FID of a Manual of Procedures acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.3);
(b)   the recruitment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist in the BPS (paragraph
3.18);
(c)    deposit by the govenment of the equivalent in Malagasy francs of US$75,000 in each
of the two project accounts (one for the FID, and one for all other components of the
project) for the government counterpart contribution (paragraph 3.34).
(d)   the adoption by the BPS and the FID of accounting and financial management
systems acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.36); and
(e)   the appointment of external auditors acceptable to IDA for the audit of the project
accounts (including the FID) for the first three years of the project (paragraph 3.36).



- 29 -
5.6          Reommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 15.5 million (US$21.3 million equivalent) to the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



-30-                                ANNEX I
ANNEX I: Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID)
A. General
1.    The "Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID)" is an independent agency that
promotes and finances small community projects and activities for economic and social development
that are proposed, initiated and implemented by community groups, NGOs and local authorities. Its
aim is to implement, with rapidity and efficiency and in a flexible way, small projects and programs
that are responsive to the needs of the poorest groups, and to support the establishment and
development of community organizations. The FID is independent of the government structure, and
is managed and operated as a private sector organization and in a decentralized manner.
B. Legal set up, Organization and Management
2.    The FID is a non-profit Association, officially declared as serving the public interest, but
managed and operated as a private sector company. In addition to ordinance N 60-133, decree N
60-383 and ordinance N 75-017, the texts setting forth the legal structure and operating rules of the
FID are:
(a)    The Articles of Agreement (Statuts);
(b)    The Bylaws (Reglement Interieur);
(c)    The Manual of Procedures; and
(d)    The Framework Agreement between the FID and Government (Convention).
3.     The members of the Association are the Central Government, local authorities, donors,
NGOs, representatives of the private sector and beneficiaries (community groups). The structure of
the Association consists of the General Assembly of Members (Assemblee Generale), the Board of
Directors and the Executive Director of the FID. The General Assembly of Members approves
amendments to the Articles of Agreement, ratifies all changes to the Manual of Procedures decided
by the Board of Directors, elects two members of the Board of Directors, and approves the accounts
and audit reports.
4.    The Board of Directors consists of 6 members, appointed for a two-year term. Two
Directors are elected by the General Assembly of Members, and the other four are nominated as
follows: one by the Prime Minister, one by donors, one by NGOs and one by the private sector. The
Board of Directors appoints the Executive Director of the FID, and approves the work programs and
budgets, the Bylaws (Reglement Interieur), the establishment of regional offices, the financing
agreements between the FID and donors, the Framework Agreement between the Government and
FID (Convention), and the projects to be financed by the FID (unless otherwise delegated to other
entities or individuals).
5.    The Executive Director of the FID is appointed by the Board of Directors. He is responsible
for the day-to-day management of the FID, including the recruitment and management of personnel.



-31-                                    ANNEX I
6.     The organization and staffing of the FID will develop as warranted by the volume of business
that it has to handle. If the FID is successful and is, in particular, able to mobilize financing from
many donors, the opening of regional offices in all the provinces could become justified. In the
initial stage, only two regional offices will be established for the Provinces of Antananarivo and
Toliary. The functions of a regional office include promotion activities as well as project appraisal
and supervision. Certain functions, like monitoring and evaluation, are carried out centrally by a
division or unit at the headquarters of the FID.
C. TkWes of Projects, and Selection and Evaluation Criteria
7.     The FID promotes and finances, in the form of grants, the following projects, programs and
activities:
(a)    construction and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure: schools, health centers, water
supply, small irrigation perimeters, rural roads, small bridges, reforestation and
protection of the environment, etc.,
(b)    income-generating activities: small livestock, fisheries, vegetable gardens, handicraft,
etc; and,
(c)    private sector support programs, including training programs for small enterprises
and consulting firms, and the development of grass-roots community groups and local
NGOs.
8.     The objective of the FID is to finance projects that benefit the poorest and most vulnerable
groups and promote the use of local resources and self reliance. The selection criteria for the projects
to be financed by the FID include the following:
(a)    the projects must be initiated by the beneficiaries themselves and meet their felt needs
(indicator: origin of the request, contribution in cash or in kind by the beneficiaries);
(b)    the projects must benefit the poorest and most vulnerable groups (indicator: income
of the beneficiaries compared to the average income for the region);
(c)    the projects must be technically feasible, financially viable (if applicable), and
socially or economically justified (indicator: population/number of current and
potential users of social infrastructure, cost/benefit analysis);
(d)    the projects must be consistent with the national, sector or regional development
plans (indicator: consistency with existing plans);
(e)    the projects must promote self reliance and the development of community groups
(indicator: cost of training component compared to total project cost);
(f)    the projects must be part of a group of projects and programs in the same zone in
order to maximize impact (indicator: existence of other activities, on going or
planned);



- 32 -                                 ANNEXI
(g)    the projects will make use of local resources or create temporary or permanent
employment (indicator: cost of local resources compared to total cost, labor intensity,
number of jobs created);
(h)    the projects must promote the development of the private sector, particularly small
enterprises capable of undertaking works previously done by force account (indicator:
percentage of project cost benefitting local enterprises); and
(i)    the projects must include satisfactory arrangements for their operation and
maintenance (indicator: existence of a management committee, availability of
personnel, coverage of recurrent costs).
9.     Project proposals will be evaluated to ensure that they comply with the selection criteria and
that they benefit the target groups. Generally, the FID will not finance recurrent activities,
emergency projects, projects that are too sophisticated, too difficult to manage and rely excessively
on mechanization, projects that have been eliminated from the government or local authorities
investment programs, projects already financed or planned with other financing, projects that have
a negative impact on the environment, and major projects (the cost of which exceeds FMG 100
million, or about US$ 55,000 equivalent). Also, the FID will not finance projects in any fok ,ntany
where the beneficiaries of previous FID projects have not complied with their commitments regarding
the implementation, management and maintenance of those previous projects.
D. Beneficiaries of FTj)
10.    The beneficiaries of grants by the FID will be:
(a)    groups or associations of persons that are undertaking income-generating activities
or small infrastructures, or receiving training;
(b)    NGOs that are receiving assistance to organize and develop groups and associations
and to help them undertake income-generating activities and small infrastructures;
(c)    local authorities that are undertaking small infrastructure investments (schools, water
supply, rural roads, etc.); and
(d)    private sector entities, such as small enterprises and consulting firms that are
receiving technical assistance and training needed to develop their activities (including
the implementation of projects financed by FID).
E. Operation of FID
11.    The FID is a financing entity that provides grants to finance projects, programs and activities
identified and prepared by the beneficiaries themselves. The FID carries out promotion activities at
the national and regional levels, appraises projects, supervises their implementation, and monitors and
evaluates their impact, particularly on the target groups. As a general rule, the FID will not
implement projects itself, but rely on 'operators", although the modalities of implementation will vary
depending on the types and costs of projects. The NGOs, local grass-roots groups and communities
requesting funding for income-generating activities, Drivate sector support programs and srall
infrastructure projects (costing less than FMG 15 million) will be responsible for implementation and
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -   -- - - - - -



-33 -                                 ANNEXI
will enter into contracts, if required, with consultants, artisans, small enterprises and suppliers. Their
rights and responsibilities as operators (including the schedule of disbursement of the grant, their
counterpart contribution, if any, and the procurement procedures that they will have to follow) will
be clearly defined in their contract with FID (protocole d'accord). For those types of projects, FID
will have a financing and monitoring role. For all other infrastructure projects, the FID will be
"Mattre d'Ouvrage Delegue", and will in all cases enter into contracts with small and medium scale
enterprises for the works. The FID will also contract with "operators", such as NGOs, technical
assistance projects and regional and local units of technical ministries to act as "Mattre d'Oeuvre";
however, for infrastructure projects costing more than FMG 50 million (about US$28,000 equivalent)
for which no operators can be identified, the FID will use local consultants as "Mattre d'Oeuvre".
FID will provide grants only and will not be a lending agency. However, for income-generating
activities and private sector support programs, the operator will set up and manage a credit scheme
for all investments benefitting individuals and households, in order to have a revolving fund and
ensure the sustainability of the activities and programs.
12.   The FID will eventually have a staff of 26 professionals for its headquarters office in
Antananarivo and its regional offices in the Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary.  The
Headquarters Office will include the Executive Director of the FID, three staffs responsible for
projects, administration and finance, and monitoring and evaluation, respectively, and an acco antant
and a computer specialist. Each regional office will include a Regional Director, three staffs
responsible for promotion, projects, and administration and finance, one Assistant Promotion Officer,
three Implementation Coordinators, one Accountant and one Computer Specialist. Both regional
offices will benefit from long-term and short-term technical assistance by international and national
consultants. The Bylaws of the FID (Reglement Interieur) establish the internal organization; hiring,
firing and other personnel management procedures; and administrative rules and regulations.
13.   The Manual of Procedures (Manuel de Procedures) recalls the fundamental objectives of the
FID, and establishes:
(a)   the types of projects, and the selection and evaluation criteria;
(b)    the beneficiaries;
(c)    the terms and conditions of financing;
(d)    the procedures whereby FID receives and processes requests from beneticiaries.
including who has the authority to approve projects and grants;
(e)    project implementation and supervision, including model contracts between the FID
and beneficiaries and between the FID and operators;
(f)    the procurement procedures, including sample bidding documents and model
contracts for project engineering, execution and supervision;
(g)    the accounting and disbursement procedures, and the procedures to be followed to
secure independent external auditors;
(h)    the financial management procedures; and



-34-                               ANNEX I
(i)   the monitoring and evaluation procedures, and the nature and periodicity of reporting
by the FID.
14.   The Framework Agreement (Convention) between the Govemnment and the FID, describes
the FID's modus operandi in the context of the present Project and IDA credit. Among other things,
the Agreement establishes: that the government will place non-reimbursable financial resources at the
disposal of the FID, including the proceeds of the IDA credit; that the FID will finance projects
consistent with those defined in the Manual of Procedures and in accordance with the provisions of
that Manual; that the Manuel de Procedures must be acceptable to IDA and the Government; and that
the accounts of FID must be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.



- 35 -                     Annex II
ANNEX II: URBAN FOOD-FOR-WORK PROGRAM
A. Objective
The objective of the urban food for work component is to provide short-term food transfers
in exchange for labor to Antananarivo's poorest population groups who will be responsible for
building and/or rehabilitating small scale community infrastructures). This component is based upon
the experience of the World Food Program's existing urban project and will intervene in 90 of the
capital's most vulnerable fokontanys. These works will: (a) be very simple to execute; (b) require
non-skilled labor; and (c) be sub-contracted and executed by the respective fokontanys. Preliminary
works will begin using data from a 1990-1991 survey. Further studies and surveys are planned to
identify works, determine health education messages and to target needy unemployed workers in the
vulnerable fokontanys.
B. Types of works
Small-scale Communal works                 Larger Scale Communal works
and Contracts with pieceworkers
Clearing water hyacinths and floating debris
Constructing walkways
Clearing of drainage ditches
Small masonry works and open air garbage
Construction of small dikes along the canal  receptacles
borders/grassing of slopes
Excavation of secondary and tertiary drains
Paving of dikes
Reinforcement of canal slopes
Maintaining rehabilitated infrastructure
C. Management and Implementation
The BPS will oversee the implementation of this component. However, the day-to-day
management of this component will be sub-contracted to the ILO in view of their experience in these
types of works and their knowledge of bank procurement procedures.  Arrangements have been
made to begin work by preparing bidding documents for equipment.
The BPS however will be responsible for: (a) ensuring that the executing agency will submit
quarterly and annual work programs and consolidating them before submitting to IDA for approval;
(b) ensuring that funds are made available according to the quarterly and annual work programs to
permit the works to be executed in a timely fashion; (c) collaborating with WFP to ensure that
foodstuffs, work materials and tools are available for the works; (d) finalizing the bidding documents
for equipment and materials; (e) coordinating among the various entities -- Fivondronana, Fokontany,
NGOs, WFP and other concerned donors to ensure that they are following through on their
obligations; and (f) ensuring that the executing agency for this component is audited annually. In
addition, the ILO will be responsible for managing the distribution of foodstuffs from the port of
Tamatave to the warehouses and then to the arious sites.



- 36 -                      Annex II
The ILOteam will report to the national coordinator of SECALINE. It will ensure that field
activities are implemented in collaboration with the Fivondronana, Fokontany and NGOs involved.
In addition, the ILO will be responsible for: (a) submitting to the BPS quarterly and annual work
programs and corresponding budgets - including foodstuff requirements; (b) sub-contracting to
competent pieceworkers certain types of works when necessary; (c) undertaking surveys in the
designated Fokontanys to identify the types of works to be undertaken, the vulnerable populations that
should be targeted, and collect other pertinent socio-economic data; (d) supervise the works in the
field to ensure that equipment and foodstuffs are available; (e) coordinate the social interventions --
IEC, nutritional and sanitary education, vaccinations and first aid; and (f) ensure that the distribution
of foodstuffs is done in a timely fashion.
The Fokontanys (neighborhood local government unit) will be the maitre d'oeuvre of the
component. They will be responsible for: (a) ensuring that the workers are residents of their
respective Fokontanys; (b) hiring a person to supervise field works and the corresponding weekly
food distributions; (c) making available storage facilities for small equipment; (d) reinforcing the IEC
program to ensure that residents are more aware of hygiene considerations; and (e) putting in place
a maintenance system to maintain the works upon project termination.
The Fivondronanas (district local government unit) or Firaisanas (sub-district local
government unit) for smaller cities, when and if the program if extended to them) will be the "maitre
d'ouvrage' for the component. They will be responsible for: (i) advising the BPS on its choice of
vulnerable Fokontanys; and (ii) preparing annual work programs for their respective Fivondronanas.
D. Contracting
No works will be undertaken by force account; the rationale is to make maximum use of local
contractors. They types of contracts are as follows: (a) contracts with the Fokontanys for communal
works detailing their specific obligations and the implications of them assuming financially and
administratively the maintenance of these works upon project termination; (b) contracts with
pieceworkers residing in the Fokontanys on the basis of three offers; and (c) contracts with NGOs
capable of construction type works.
E. Co-frnancing
WFP will co-finance (in this context will ship to the port of Tamatave all foodstuffs) required
for the compensation of workers. In addition, it will finance local purchases of equipment and
materials and will pay 50 percent of internal transport costs based on quarterly reports. WFP will
also be part of the Coordination Committee within the BPS for this component.



-37 -                             Annex M
ANNEX II: COMEMUNITY NUJTRMON PROGRAMIME IPCN)
Glossary of Terms
Fivondronona Districts. This component will intervene in eight fivondronona in the Toliary
region (province) and five fivondronona in the Antananarivo region.
Firaisana    Sub-districts
Fokontany    Village or neighborhood (for larger villages and towns)
Community  It will be a group whose members live in the same geographical area and
whose members trust each other and who express a desire to group together
for a PCN center. It is expected that one PCN center will consist of one, two
or three Fokontany, depending on the population.
A. Backcground
1.           The Community nutrition program, or Programme Communautaire de Nutrition
(PCN) has been built on existing NGO activities. Community nutrition workers were already
operating in Madagascar for 25 years before the Bank started preparing SECALINE. The EFEN
(Equipes Feminines d'Education Nutritionnelles) were women from the community who were
trained by the Ministry of Health in how to prepare affordable, nutritious food with little financial
support from the Ministry of Health. As a result, the group ceased to exist though one still finds
volunteers who are older women in the civil service or wives of influental people. The project
preparation team also identified a few NGOs who deliver services to target population (poor
people) but could not expand due to financial constraints.
B. Component Description
1. Targeting
2.           The project will be active in the two most food insecure provinces of the country:
Antananarivo and Toliary. The most vulnerable Fivondronana within those provinces have been
identified for project activities. For example in Toliary, the following eight Fivondronana have
been selectede Toliary I, Toliary II, Betioky, Ampanihy, Ambovombe, Amboasard, Beloha and
Tsihombe. These Fivondronana were selected after going through the following steps:
(a)    First: Using the vulnerability index developed by the Ministry of Scientific
Research to identify the more vulnerable fivondronana;
(b)   Second: Visits by regional project preparation teams to the field to re-rate each
Fivondronana after taking into account the views of local leaders, local NGOs
and health personnel and considering the level of food prices on the local market;



- 38 -                             Annex III
(c)    Third: A meeting was held at the provincial capital with the regional authorities
to discuss the rating applicable to the six Fivondronana initially selected.
Following this meeting two other Fivondronana were added;
(d)    Fourth: A second meeting was held at the regional capital with all 37 members
of the extended project preparation team who decided to retain all 8
Fivondronana;
(e)    Fifth: To achieve a more accurate targeting, certain Firaisana were selected
within these Fivondronana, based on food prices, amount of rainfall, number of
malnourished children and accessibility;
(f)    Sixth: The choice of Fokontany within the selected Firaisana was made by a
group of the project preparation team based on the following criteria: (i) a NGO
must exist; (ii) proximity of a health post; and (iii) more than 1000 inhabitants.
3.           Supervisors (called "animateurs") recruited by participating NGOs will carry out
an information campaign in the target communities with the help of the regional project team to
inform the communities on (a) what can the project provide and (b) what is expecte& of
communities. This campaign will be carried out in three rounds per community:
- Round 1: inform local leaders, discuss and leave the community nutrition booklet, set
a date for round 2.
- Round 2: identify the communities that express an interest in the project; answer any
questions on the community nutrition programme, discuss how to set up a local nutrition
committee and the role of each committee member, and how to select a community
nutrition agent, or Agent Communautaire de Nutrition (ACN), set a date for round 3.
- Round 3: answer any questions, find out if selected ACN has required criteria, discuss
the activities that will be provided by ACNs and the role of the community, advice of
date, place and logistics of the training session for the ACN. Sign the contract
Community-Animator.
4.           The animators will be expected to work 1/2 to 1 day per week to supervise the
ACNs. The supervision ration will be 1.2 centers/ animator (32/26) during the first year of the
project, then this will be increased to 1.7 centers/animator (63/37) during the second year; these
ratios will be adjusted based on implementation experience. The animator's role will consist
mainly in the following: (a) inform the communities on the PCN programme; (b) technical and
logistical supervision of the ACN, to help them find solutions to problems; (c) link with NGOs
and regional medical services; and (d) compile supervision reports on ACNs and send them
monthly to the regional coordination officer.
2. Training
5.           The animators will be training in IEC and nutrition in about three weeks. They,
along with the regional team, will train the ACNs.



- 39 -                             Annex III
6.           The community nutrition agent will be trained in nutrition and IEC at the regional
capital (in three weeks, and yearly one week retraining). When they return to their communities
they will be able to provide the following services: (a) weigh the children and plot their weight
on a growth chart in order to (i) identify malnourished children to be referred to feeding services
and (ii) provide the basis for a community diagnosis of the malnutrition problem; (b) provide
group and individual nutrition education through participative training methods; (c) help the
community become more organized; (d) provide basic information on the Social Fund and refer
the community to the social fund agents; (e) help the moderately malnourished children by
providing them with 500 extra calories/day for 5 days a week (500 calories represents
approximately half the requirements of a two-year old) and by showing their mothers how to
prepare nutritious snacks;  and (f) refer severely malnourished children to the nutrition
rehabilitation centers and monitor their nutritional status through home visits if necessary, upon
their return from these centers.
7.           A training module will be designed for (i) supervision by animators; (2) nutrition
- growth monitoring, handling of different stages of malnutrition; (3) IEC - nutrition messages,
social marketing approach, information campaign.
8.           Two simple PCN manuals will be designed for the ACN: one on the PCN itself
(content will include "How is a PCN set up in a community?", "Who can be part of the PCN?",
"Role of each member of the PCN", "Who can become a community nutrition agent?", 'What
will the supervision consist in ?", "Sample contracts"). The other manual will be on the Social
Fund and will contain basic information that the ACN can provide to the communities.
9.           A study will be undertaken on the possibility of using germinated cereals in order
to increase the caloric density of traditional porridges.
3. Incentives
10.          The community nutrition agent will receive 2.5 Kg. of rice per day of work (5
days/week) and a bicycle as incentive. The value of the rice supplied is greater than the wages
that a person of similar qualifications could earn in Madagascar. The decision to provide
incentives in kind for community service and not wages was taken to reinforce the notion of
community service. The animateur will receive a moped and gasoline so that he/she can
undertake the supervision. These incentives still need to be discussed with the NGOs.
4, Commitment
11.          Should the community decide it needs to build a smaRl infrastructure for the
supplementary feeding sessions, it will either provide a building itself or provide the labor and
the project will pay for cement, bricks and other hardware.
12.          Three types of contract will be signed:
- one between the regional project manager and the NGO;
- one between the NGO and its animateur;
- one between the animateur and the community.



- 40 -                            Annex II
5. Referral of severely malnourished children
13.          Seven nutrition rehabilitation centers (CRT) will receive food and a maintenance
allocation in Toliaryl/, and two in Antananarivo. These centers already exist. In Toliary,
training of CRT staff in nutrition rehabilitation is planned with Unicef financing under a different
project.
14.          Operations research will be undertaken at the beginning of the project (i) to
identify whether referral to the CRT is done properly; and (ii) if rehabilitation cannot be done
at the community level for populations living around the CRT. The ACN will be asked to follow
closely children referred back from the CRT. These children will probably be admitted in the
supplementary feeding program and will benefit from extra home visits.
6. Medical supervision of community nutrition centers
15.          An agreement will be signed between the regional representative of the Ministry
of Health and the regional project coordination, identifying the personnel who will visit each PCN
once a month along with all the agreed upon procedures (weighing, deworming, curative care,
immunizations, contacts with animateurs,...) of children in the PCN along with other 'at risk"
children. Operations research will be undertaken upfront to identify any problem with this
medical supervision.
7. Monitoring and evaluation
16.         The management information system (MIS) will be used for supervision to
identify bottlenecks and identify progress. Each ACN will be supervised once a month by the
animator and the animator will be supervised once every three months by the regional project
teamn.
17.          After the first year of project implementation, supervision will become selective,
that is the regional team will supervise in priority those animators and ACNs that seem to have
trouble according to the MIS. Once bottlenecks have been identified and the cause remains
unknown, operations research will be triggered to help find a solution.
18.          Every six months, a review of progress will be done by organizing a meeting of
the regional project team, animators, some ACN and some community members. This will also
be a forum to exchange experience among different communities and ACNs.
19.         During the mid-term review a beneficiary assessment will be undertaken and one
of the themes will be "community satisfaction with the PCN". The results will help re-orient the
project, if necessary.
20.          A base-line survey will be undertaken in each community (with the help of the
ACN) and in control communities. At the end of the project another round of surveys will be
done to evaluate progress.
IrThose of Ambovambo, Beloha, Ampanihy, Betiolcy, Tulear, Tsihombe, Amboaseny.



- 41 -                                                              Annex III
C. Component Objectives
21.                       In Toliary, 150 community centers will be created to (1) monitor the nutritional
status of 100% of children 0-3 years of age by the fourth year of the project and, (2) to provide
daily food supplements to about 60% of the moderately malnourished children (targets are
children less than three years of age and those children living in at-risk families).
Table 1: Community Nutrition Program Targets and Objectives
1993              1994              1995             1996           TOTAL
a$.in. for  0 Pfi    f To_.y
Teed  Pep..f I nea F                                          556.253           571.272      L   336696            6537
Ei.Unend Chddo  0-3                                           66.750             0,553             70,404          7n.304
E.aod  Nhor NMlo lnWed                                        20,025             20.566            21.121           21,691
N-nob  of ACN                                                     30                 60               100              ISO
N. of Chd&  in &IAmway Fmeing                                   2,700             5,400             9,000           13.500            30,600
No. f Chddo- Reneie  M.lnouinsd (1)                                               18,541           17.071           14.941
|ib.m.d  F-no  Cowage |-                                         13%                29%              53%               90%
Noof Chad- k. iCkk anwilkomo                                   16.240            36.410            60. 00           91200             206X720
Coinrop Refof  Ckoa.   &-ell.                                    27%                53%              86%              126%
Noof C    tldren RUdmd to CRT.                                   912              1.24             3,040            4.560             10,336
% Mf AooM.looi.l   R_dad o CRTe                                  14%                27%              43%              6*%
Coarcensfia.y 'Wfood                                              38                 n7                56               15
a% Cldl&-  Mo loni  t T.%A Piv.                                  30%                27%              24%              21*
O."       II Rdain Mulnoisolm"                                                      10%              19%               31%
Obp-   fm tho Ptrav.s of Ameewwzo________
Td. Pqp. M u rpt Finmamme                           T        .033,000           106602           1094I09           1124369
E.ti_.d CId.. 0-3                                            12456l0            127.923           131.377          134.924
Ebine d NN--Mer M.i.6d                                        37,343             33.377            39.413           40.477
N     of . ACN                                                        7               ,1              50               100
N. of Clad  in &yhow6oay Pendig                                  450              1350              4,500            9.000             15,300
No.  f Clhak  RUnunft MahIr..old (1)                                             33,039            34.401           37.102
%|mmI Fedig Co-g Rein                                             1%                 4%               12%              24%
No,of ClOil  ion (kob Sooslsos                                  3,040             9,120            30,400           60.300            103.360
Como  Rene f. Ck             h.h                                  2%                 7%              23%               45%
Noof Cldren Rdwod to CRT.                                        152                456             1,520            3.040              5,18
% of AcI   Uolaa  RIfuod to CRtTs                                                    4%               12%              23%
C.WUA.=wY sEo.d                                                  S13                S10                S6               S5
* ClOfu n eink.d is Torpe FM.                                  30.0%              29.7%             20.2%            2.1%
Oow_a  Weded ui                                                                      is               3%                3%
Nd. 1: 75% of cidIh  is .qppimoud.y feodiog - umed to nub moal po           an%*.
Ndo 2a         eeek nmg  _np  mu -y  owd 100% d 0-3            d_ k.oumi d sploW  to dod         e.



- 42 -                            Annex III
22.          The programme in Antananarivo will start 6 months later than in Toliary due to
preparation delays caused partly by political developmnets. Another reason for the delay is to
allow project management to focus on getting the urban food for work program started. In
Antananarivo 100 community nutrition centers will be set up in the following Fivondronana:
Arivonimamo, Avaradrano, Antsimondrano, Antsirabe II and Ambohidratimo.
D. NGO Involvement
23.          NGO involvement has been sought since the beginning of the project identification
stage. This would improve equity in service delivery since most NGOs are self-targeting (i.e.,
they serve the poorer communities). The preparation team then decided to target the Fokontany
based on the presence of an NGO. These NGOs were then invited to a three-day round-table
with the preparation team to: (a) inform them of project preparation status; (b) discuss how the
NGO animateur will be selected; (c) discuss the first draft of the community nutrition booklet;
and (d) discuss the sensitization campaign and the training curriculum of animators and
ACNs_/. The NGOs mentionned that this was the first time government involved them during
a project preparation, and they were very pleased with this new approach.
24.          NGOs selected and nominated, the animateurs who will be supervising the ACNs
in the targeted Fivondronana. NGOs will continue to be involved in finalizing the community
nutrition booklet, helping design the information and supervision system forms and the contract
agreements betweenGovernment-NGO, NGO-Animateur, Animateur-Community. The animateurs
are volunteer workers who are already involved in community work. They are not paid by
NGOs. The project will buy a motorcycle for each animator and provide them with some gasoline
to supervise the ACNs.
25.   One of the reasons NGOs seem interested in this project is that it will allow them to
penetrate even better in the communities and to help communities become organized. One of the
objectives of this projec is to help communities become better organized, and eventually become
NGOs themselves. This would allow the project to be sustainable and replicable once Bank
financing stops. In order to pursue this objective, the regional IEC and nutrition coordinators will
be sent on a study tour to Burkina Faso to study community organization and participative
training methods. The appraisal mission also asked that the regional coordination team starts
thinking about how can the SECALINE project help (1) existing NGOs coordination, and (2)
local NGOs to be developed. This aspect will need to be monitored during project
implementation.
b/The following NGOs and institutions were represented at that meeting held october 7-9
1992 in Tulear: project ENTREPRENDRE (Govt.), the Ministry of Health, the University of
Tulear, the Catholic Mission, Oeuvres Paroissiales, Vomiera Sosialy (ECAR, Roman Catholic
Church), Namana, Caritas (ECAR), FISA (family planning NGO), CEMI (protestant), AICF,
CEMI (protestant), ECAR, Scouts, FLM (protestant).



- 43 -                            Annex III
E. Overview of the Manual for the Community Nutrition Program
26.   The manual's content was developed and presented to the Bank prior to negotiations; it
will be tested and finalized in the field. The manual is to be given to communities, NGOs and
anyone else interested in the PCN; it is an information brochure which will be referred to during
the implementation of the PCN. The manual will follow the following outline.
Section 1: Objectives of the PCN
27.   The main objective is to reduce malnutrition among children 0-3 years of age.
Section 2: Services provided by the PCN:
28.   Women of the community will be able to get:
- nutritional education during discussion sessions accompanied by preparation of
nutritious snacks that their children can eat, and monitoring of the children's growth;
- personal counselling by the nutrition community agent (ACN) on how to best use family
resources to improve the children's nutritional status;
- referral to the social fund agents and priority service should the community make a
request for funding to that fund;
- referral of badly malnourished children to a nutrition rehabilitation center by the ACN;
and upon recovery, close monitoring of the child by the ACN.
Section 3: Who can be part of the PCN?
29.   Only the communities of selected fivondronana in the provinces of Antananarivo and
Toliary can be, for the moment, part of the PCN.
Section 4: How is a PCN set up in a community?
a. Information Campaign
30.   The campaign will be executed in three visits:
First visit: The regional PCN team will visit each of the concerned communities to meet
with the community members and discuss the opportunity of having a PCN there. This
manual will be read, explained and all questions answered. A temporary community
commission will be set up to continue discussions within the community after the regional
PCN team leaves.
Second visit: The regional PCN team comes back to evaluate the first visit; answer any
questions; explain the role of the community nutrition agent and the community nutrition
program. Interested communities are thus identified. These communities are asked to



- 44 -                            Annex m
select one community nutrition agent for the oet visit and to organize itself into a more
permanent community commission with one prosident, one secretary, and one controller.
The PCN supervisor from a local NGO will also be identified then with the help of the
regional PCN team.
Third visit: The regional PCN team comes to answer any questions; to ensure that
everyone understands the role of the community nutrition agent, of the PCN and of the
community commission; to ensure that the community nutrition agent selected
corresponds to all the criteria; and to inform everyone of the time, date and modalities
of the training for the community nutrition agent. A document of agreement is then
signed between the community (as represented by one of its representatives, the president
of the community commission) and the regional PCN coordinator.
b. Training:
31.   The ACN will be trained in social marketing methods for nutrition education, in nutrition
(with some few basic messages); in food preparation; in oral rehydration therapy, in how to
manage the funds she will receive from the program to buy, prepare and distribute food. ITe
PCN supervisors will participate in the ACN training, although they will have received a two
days training themselves prior to the ACN training.
c. Supervision:
32.   The supervision of the ACN and community PCN is done by the NGO supervisor
(animateur). This is a day to day activity.
33.   The regional PCN team supervises the activities undertaken by each community and its
supervisor. This supervision is done once every two months.
Section 5: Role of each member of the PCN
a. The community nutrition agent:
b. The community commission's president:
c. The community commission's secretary:
d. The community commission's controller:
e. The NGO supervisor:
Section 6: Who can become a community nutition  gen
34.   To become a community nutrition agent, a person must have the following criteria:
- be a mature woman,
- live in the community,
- be a volunteer,
- be respected by the women of the community,



- 45 -                              Annex III
- be available to spend 4 hours a day for the PCN,
- is, or has, raised healthy, well nourished children.
Section 7: Referral to nutrition rehabilitation centers
35.   Procedures governing referral to nutrition rehabilitation centers.
Section 8: Scope of Supervision
36.   The ACN and the community commission will keep track of several indicators (forms to
be filled will need to be put in Annex) that will help the supervisor to:
a. help the ACN to better counsel women,
b. help the ACN to better organize its activities, its timetable,
c. help the community commission solve certain problems in community participation,
d. evaluate the progress of the PCN in terms of nutrition,
e. plan resources needed for training, supervision and feeding.



- 46 -                             Annex IV
ANNEX IV: IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS (IDD) CONTROL PROGRAM
A. Background
I .          Iodine deficiency has led to endemic Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) including
severe forms of IDD such as cretinism. The extent of the problem was recently illustrated by
a goiter distribution map prepared in connection with a recent Doctoral thesis. The severeness
of the problem is illustrated in Table 1 below. This study combined with the strong interest and
support expressed by donors such as UNICEF and the Bank led to the development of a national
IDD control program.
Table 1: Goiter prevalence for Key Provinces
Province                                     Visible and Non-Visible Goiter Prevalence
Antananarivo                                                           20% to 30%
Fianarantsoa                                                           30% to 43%
Toamasina                                                              20% to 30%
2.           UNICEF financed the preparation of this component by hiring consultants to: (a)
study salt distribution in Madagascar; (b) undertake a feasibility study on salt iodination; (c) hold
an information seminar; and (d) train health personnel on the management of an IDD control
program through distribution of iodized oil capsules. These tasks were carried out by Malagasy
consultants with support from an international consultant (Professor Lantum). UNICEF
cooperated closely with the Bank on this and scheduled the consultants assignments so that their
findings would be available in time for the World Bank appraisal mission for this project.
B. Prouosed strate=
3.           The short term strategy consists in distributing iodized oil capsules through the
health system for about 4 years and the longer term strategy is to iodize locally produced salt and
restricting imports to iodized salt. It is estimated that about 65% of the population has access to
health care and can be easily targeted by the iodine capsule distribution program. Salt iodination
was selected as a long term strategy because 68% of the national production comes from one
plant in Diego Suarez (Consalimad), 30% from the artisanal salt ponds from Toliary and 2%
from two artisanal salt ponds in Morondava (Sebemer and Salinen). Very little salt is imported
(annual imports of 15 tons compared to 46,000 tons local production).
4.           A rapid assessment of the salt distribution network7/ showed that the highly
endemic areas (the high plains) receive their salt mainly from Morondava and Toliary and that
the salt coming from these two cities is cheaper than that from Diego partly because of
transportation costs (Diego's salt comes by boat to Tamatave or Mahajunga and is then shipped
by road, salt from other areas comes by road only).
7/Auguste Rajaonarivony, "L'etude sur la production, la distribution et la consommation de
sels a Madagascar", October 1992, UNICEF, Antananarivo.



- 47 -                             Annex IV
Table 2: Price Comparison by Kilogram of Salt by Source
Salt from Diego
Transaction Point   Suarez              Salt from Morondava  Salt from Toliary
Producer Price               164 FMG               100 FMG                 60 FMG
Wholesale Price              239 FMG               150 FMG   100 FMG to 180 FMG
Retail Price                 332 FMG              200 FMG   200 FMG to 250 FMG
C. Institutional arrangements
5.           The Ministry of Health has taken the leadership in developing the National Plan
of Action against IDD and designated a National IDD Coordinator from among its MCH senior
staff. It has agreed to set up a jointly public and private IDD committee to follow the
implementation of the national program. Furthermore, the Ministry of Industry has just set-up
a National Standard Commission which will serve on the joint IDD committee along with the
Ministry of Health which has a Division of Food Safety Control.
6.           The IEC campaign for the program will target the following partners:
- government decision makers in ministries of health, commerce, finance, planning,
justice: to increase their commitment and support for the program.
- salt manufacturers: to increase their commitment to iodize salt;
- health personnel: to increase their knowledge of the causes of IDD, how to prevent IDD
and of proper delivery of IDD services;
- population: to increase their knowledge of the causes of IDD and how to prevent them.
7.           Monitoring and evaluation could be undertaken either by the Ministry of Research
or the University of Antananarivo. The laboratory capacities of each institution will need to he
evaluated against a third option which consists in sending the specimens to a private laboratory
in Yaounde (Cameroon) or in Tanzania where such laboratories are well equipped and already
doing similar work. The Ministry of Health will undertake the overall project monitoring while
specific operational research will be contracted out to research institutes or to individuals.
D. Estimated Cost
8.           The cost for eliminating IDD  in Madagascar is about $700,000 without
contingencies of which about 30% is for imported iodate to iodize salt. Even though some salt
manufacturers have agreed to bear the cost of salt iodination during a first information seminar
which was held in october 1992. It was that to assure acceptance of iodized salt, iodination of
salt should not lead to price increases during the first five years of the project until its positive
impact has been demonstrated. The additional recurrent costs due to iodination during those years
will be financed by the project and these subsidies will be phased out once the benefits from use
of iodized salt are apparent. Once the subsidies are removed the costs will be borne by the
manufacturer and/or the consumer. These options will need to be analyzed carefully and the
phasing-out of the subsidy prepared in consultation with the Bank in a program to be ready by



- 48 -                               Annex IV
the end of the first year of the project. Recurrent costs per beneficiary are expected to drop from
$0.03 in 1993 to $0.01 in 1996.
Table 3: Recurrent Costs of National IDD Control Program
1993     1994     1995      1996      TOWI
Recurnt comu             26,000    26,000    26,000    30,000   106,000
lodate                  100,S00   103,320    105,U40   10 ,360   410,320
Iodaud oil               107,600            107,600             215,200
TOTAL RECURRENT COST      236,393    131,314   241,435    140,356   741,520
Coaa/Beeficiay of Program 1/  $0.03  $0.01     $0.03    $0.01
COST/BENEMCLARY FOR CAPSULES ONLY
CosuBeflcnuy Capaue O Ily                                         $0.11
E. Project Financed Activities
1. Project objectives
(a) Distribution of iodized oil capsules:
9.            The primary targets are women of child bearing age who have not completed their
fertility and children 0-4 years. However, as a practical matter women will be targeted when
they come into contact with the health services and as a high percentage of women visit health
clinics during their pregnancy, it is likely that many of the women targeted will be pregnant
women. It is estimated2/ that 79% of the population (about 9 million people) lives in areas
with 10% or more prevalence of goiter in 1992, of those, 3 million people live in areas with
goiter prevalence of more than 30%. The capsules will provide a protection of four years to 75%
of children 0-4 years old and pregnant women between 1993-96 among the 3 million people at
risk. A total of 1,381,710 capsules will be ordered (to allow for the increase in population and
the doses that will be given to a few non-pregnant women with goiter). Capsules will be
delivered through the primary health care system. Pregnant women will be reached during the
prenatal clinic (there is a coverage of about 60% in prenatal care); and children will be reached
during their contacts with the EPI. This will allow capsule distribution to start immediately.
Mothers who bring their children to EPI will be encouraged to bring their own health cards so
that they may also be given iodine capsules. IEC campaigns have already been started to inform
all women of the problem and to suggest that they contact the local facility with their health cards
or take their own cards when they take their children to be immunized.
8/The cost per beneficiary is based on a target population of 9,000,000 or so.
2/Lantum N. Daniel, "Lutte contre les troubles dus a la carence en iode a Madagascar',
Novembre 1992, Consultant Report for Unicef, Antanarivo.



-49 -                                        Annex IV
Table 4: Approximate schedule of distribution of capsules
Tmrgg o             a   TOW      J t993                     1994      1995       1996       TO
pop.  N _b      T 
O-t yaw am         5%    ll@.llW  7     OS    120,000    120,000    120 000    120,000    480.0(00l
1-2 yaw oU         4%    120,000       50S     W0,0001                                     6
| 2-3 yorNom 4S    120,0                 4 40d                        41,000 4i,1000        1EE,000
3-4 year *         4%    120,000       30%      36,000  .           36,000                 72.000
Pregi W_r 24% of   156000              40%      MM.00     93,600    93,600     93,600     374.400
15-44
Total                                                                                    1,130,400
NOTE 1: BDnd an *0% pm emvmfeo DPT 1; f .   60% o.mb for pIm  cuec.
NOTE 2: Tote   l popuiamiv* in hr  vI pow pemmm of mme  mt 30% -3,000,000.
NOTE 3: No pqpubei. haism fos Wu oin b_. a, , _
(b) Salt lodination:
10.              It is expected that salt iodination will start in 1994 and be complete by 1995.
A strict monitoring and evaluation system will be designed to (i) monitor the iodination process
(at importation entry points; at factory level; at consumer level) and (ii) to evaluate the impact
of the program.
2. Proiect financing and Executing Arrangements
11.              The project wil finance the following categories of expenses: iodized oil capsules;
monitoring and evaluation; salt iodination equipment; iodate to iodize salt; training and seminars.
The Government has agreed that UNICEF be made the executing agency and UNICEF has agreed
to this arrangement.



- 50 -                           ANNEX V
ANNEX V: INFORMATION, EDUCATION. AND COMMUNICATION (IEC)
A. Introduction
1.    Information, Education, and Communication activities will support all the other
components of the project and will assist in its management. The IEC strategy will be based on
a beneficiary assessment, which will provide data on the nutritional, agricultural and economic
environment of the project beneficiaries and will investigate the concerns, problems, and obstacles
faced by them. A knowledge, attitude, and practice (KAP) survey, which will examine practices
related to child nutrition and growth, will be conducted during the project preparation phase
under UNICEF financing. This KAP survey will complement the beneficiary assessment and
be used to develop specific IEC activities focused on the target audiences. During project
implementation, the monitoring system will provide regular feedback to the SECALINE Project
office (BPS) and help them identify directions for change if necessary. The objectives of the IEC
activities will be to:
*     Mobilize potential project beneficiaries, encourage them  to identify their
problems related to food security and nutrition and motivate them to organize
themselves so that they can participate to the programs being set up in the con.text
of the project, i.e. Community Nutrition Program, Social Fund or Food for
Work Program. In addition, IEC activities will promote community nutrition
centers and the food supplementation program. Finally, IEC personnel will assist
with the development of the nutrition education component;
*     Inform NGOs about SECALINE and the role that they are to play in the project,
and to motivate them to assist community groups in developing projects that can
be financed by the Social Fund; and
*     Inform decision-makers and central and regional authorities about the SECALINE
project and its objectives to ensure that they understand the concept of Food
Security and the National Food Security and Nutrition Strategy, and to motivate
them to promote and support the project.
During the preparation phase of the project, a social communication specialist prepared a global
IEC strategy for the project, which will serve as a guide for developing annual IEC plans.
B. Management of IEC Activities
2.    IEC activities will be planned, coordinated, and supervised by three IEC specialists who
will be hired by the project. One will be a member of the BPS and will have the responsibility
to: (a) develop annual IEC plans on the basis of the SECALINE workplan and of the global IEC
Strategy; (b) assist and supervise the regional IEC coordinators; (c) promote the social fund; and
(d) liaise with other agencies/organizations that are involved in IEC or that will assist SECALINE
to implement its IEC activities.  The other two IEC specialists, one in the Faritany of
Antananarivo and the other in that of Tulear, where all the components of SECALINE will be
implemented, will work closely with the regional coordinators and will have the responsibility
to: (a) develop, in collaboration with the national IEC coordinator, the IEC annual regional
plans; (b) carry out or supervise the IEC activities included in the annual plans, including
informing and motivating the authorities and the NGOs, and promoting the social fund; (c) assist



- ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ -1
- 51 -                   ~~~ANNEX V
the Community Nutrition Workers (ACN) to diagnose the food security and nutrition problems
in their community; (d) participate to the training of trainers, of ACN, and of health personnel;
and (e) collaborate with the person responsible for following up and supervising the Community
Nutrition Program.
C. IEC Target Audiences
3.    IEC activities will be targeted to three groups:
*     Grass root communities that are vulnerable to food insecurity and suffer from
nutrition problems will be the main beneficiaries of the project and will be the
primary target audience;
*     NGOs that will be the link between grass root communities and the project will
be the secondary target audience; and
*      National and local authorities and donors will constitute the tertiary target
audience.
D. IEC Strategy
4.    A detailed IEC strategy for SECALINE has been developed during the preparation phase
of the project. This strategy is based on two premises: (a) IEC activities will be based on an
in-depth knowledge of the target audiences and of their relations with the authorities and the
NGOs; and (b) these IEC activities will be implemented, on the basis of the plan developed by
the BPS and under the supervision of the national IEC coordinator, by existing
agencies/organizations (Although no new implementing organization will be created, some
agencies or organization may be reinforced through training and/or the provision of equipment).
Below are described briefly the main directions of the IEC strategy.
5.    Development of a SECALINE IEC plan. The IEC personnel of the project will develop
an annual IEC workplan for the SECALINE project outlining activities for each of the
components but also articulating the activities of each component with each other in order to
harmonize the activities. With each of the assistance of the national IEC coordinator and of their
respective regional coordinator, each regional IEC specialist will develop a provincial IEC plan
which will reflect provincial characteristics and specific problems.
6.    IEC materials. All materials developed for the project -print, slides, mass-media will
be based on the research done on the target audiences and thoroughly pre-tested with those target
audiences to ensure that they are well understood and culturally appropriate.
7.    Monitoring system. A monitoring system will be put in place which will ensure that
project personnel receive regular feedback regarding IEC activities and other project activities.
This system will make it possible to carry out on course corrections if necessary and to document
what is works and what does not, constraints, etc.
8.    Creation of a Political Climate Favorable to SECALINE. As mentioned above, for the
project to be successful, it is necessary that decision- and policy-makers, authorities, and informal
opinion leaders support and promote the project. In order to inform and motivate these
influentials, the following activities would be used: seminars for national, regional, and local



- 52 -                            ANNEX V
political leaders; workshops for radio, television, and written press journalists; information
seminars for NGO managers; a brochure including information on the various components of the
project and another on the social fund; television and radio shows at the time of the launch of the
project and during its implementation to share success stories and stimulate emulation on the part
of other jurisdictions; and articles in newspaper and specialized magazine.
9.     Mass Media Activities. The mass media, modern and traditional, will be used in the
context of the project. Some national radio shows and the rural radio stations and local
newspapers, which address region-specific problems, have large audiences. Some of the activities
to be considered are listed below: national radio shows or spots could include information on
the project, on food security and nutrition; local radio show and the local press could broadcast
or publish messages on the same topic as the national radio but be more specific and mention,
for example, food products that are available in the region; song competitions or traditional
thereafter will also be used if formative research indicates that they are credible means of
communicating nutritional messages.
10.   Strengthening of interpersonal Communication. Interpersonal communication is very
important to reinforce mass media communication and will be important for the ACN and for the
health personnel, to whom acutely malnourished children will be referred. Other groups, such
as agricultural extension workers, youth groups, or women farmers may also be enrolled to a sist
with the promotion and the implementation of the project. All this personnel will receive
additional training in interpersonal communication and will receive a brochure or a manual
including detailed information on the project. The following type of interpersonal activities could
be included: NGOS and/or agricultural extension workers could organize meetings with
community groups; ACN could carry out culinary demonstrations in the nutrition community
centers, counsel parents of malnourished children and inform them about the social fund; visual
aides such as posters, flip charts, etc. would be developed and provided to group facilitators.



- 53 -                       ANNEX V
ANNEX VI: PROJECT MANAGEMENT ASPECTS
A. General
1.    This annex deals with overall project management, supervision and coordination, i.e. at
the level of goals, means and results, rather than with operational day-to-day management of each
component, which is the responsibility of the various executing agencies (see below para 2), in
conformity with their respective terms of reference, and reflected in operational and procedural
manuals to be prepared by the respective executing agencies during start-up or finalized during
project preparation (as is the case for the Social Fund component; cf the annexes on the different
components, as well as the main text section II.B).
B. Project characteristics
2.    IDA experience in Madagascar has demonstrated the importance of incorporating the
following into multi-component projects: (a) involving communities and beneficiaries in project
design and execution; (b) working outside traditional government structures; (c) preparing clearly
outlined decision making structures and lines of authority in multi-component projects; and (d)
developing a good monitoring, financial management and accounting system. The managenient
guidelines in this annex have been developed to help those responsible execute the project.
C. Project management and coordination
3.    Responsibility for overall project management is divided between the following entities
and individualsl0/:
- Interministerial SECALINE Steering Committee        (Comit6 Interministeriel
de   Coordination du
Projet SECALINE -
CICS)
- National SECALINE Coordinator                       ( C o o r d o n n a t e u r
National - CN)
- SECALINE Project Office and Office Director         (Bureau d'Ex&cution du
Projet SECALINE -
BPS; Directeur BPS -
D/BPS)
- Regional SECALINE Coordinator for Toliary           ( C o o r d o n n a t e u r
Regional - CRITOL)
- Regional SECALINE Coordinator for Antananarivo      ( C o o r d o n n a t e u r
Regional - CR/ANR)
101 Terms of reference for key individuals are included in an attachment to this annex



- 54 -                        ANNEX VI
and for the Social Fund (FID) which is autonomous and not under the authority of any of the
above:
- General Assembly of FID Members                     (Assemblee Generale -
AG)
- Board of Directors                                  ( C  o  n s e i 1
d'Administration - CA)
- Executive Director                                  (Directeur Executif -
DE)
- Regional Director for Toliary                       (Directeur Regional -
DR/TOL)
- Regional Director for Antananarivo                  (Directeur Regional -
DR/ANR)
- Regional Project Officers                            (Responsable R]gi( aal
des Projets Toliary and
Antananarivo   -
RP/TOL, RP/ANR)
D. Project structure
4.    In order to introduce a common framework to the discussion of management, the
following schema will be used:
Component: Social Fund (FID), Urban Food-for-Work, Community Nutrition Program (PC N),
Iodine Deficiency Disorder Control Program (IDD), National Food Security Strategy and, in a
supporting role, Information-Education-Communication Program (IEC).
Sub-components: the above as divided by regional responsibility where relevant (in particular for
PCN and FID).
Executing agencies (AdE): the actual entities or persons contracted or designated to manage
execution of (sub-) components.
Operators: the entities directly contracted by the executing agencies to execute various operations
(these would be NGOs, Technical assistance projects, private entrerprises and or any other
suitable organisation).
Sub-contractors: firms or entrepreneurs sub-contracted by operators for executing part or all of
activities. This level mainly concerns construction-type operations where design & engineering,
supervision and construction may be sub-contracted out. However, these neither concern nor
interest Project Management per se, these being the sole responsibility of the respective operator.



- 55 -                       ANNEX VI
5.    The other levels below 'operator' comprise community groups, beneficiary households
and finally individual beneficiary household members. These are outside project management
purview which stops at the executing agency or - in some cases - at the operator level; instead
they are accessed through the monitoring and evaluation circuit (see Annex on M&E). The
following matrix summarizes the basic structure:
Executing agency by project subcomponent
Component\Region       Antananarivo    |     Toliary             National
FID               RP/ANR              RP/TOL
Food-for-Work            ILO
PCN               CR/ANR               CR/TOL
IDD                                                   _       UNICEF
Food Sec. Strategy                                            CICS/ Research
_ ______   Inst.1U/
IEC               CRIANR              CR/TOL                 BPS
6.    Though the executing agencies are either designated by delegation (as for regional PCN
and FID) or formally contracted by the National Coordinator, any change in this respect entails
a significant change in project organisation, and thus will need to be agreed upon inter alia with
the Bank.
E. Distribution of supervision and coordination roles
7.    In order to underline the distinction between operational management and overall project
management, the terms 'supervision' and 'coordination' will be used for the latter.
8.    By supervision is meant planning and following up project implementation schedules;
projecting and following up expenditure in relation to budgets; channeling funds; and checking
the performance of the executing agencies. To be properly useful supervision has to be conducted
by a management level above and outside the executing agency. While this is straight-forward,
it is important to stress the distinction, since for example BPS and the CRs could be acting as
executing agency for one sub-component and supervisor for another. The following table
summarizes:
11 to be identified by August 1993



- 56 -                      ANNEX VI
Supervisor by project subcomponent
Component\Region      Antananarivo          Toliary             National
FID              DR/ANR               DR/TOL                DE
Food-for-Work           BPS
PCN                 BPS                 BPS
IDD                                                         CN
Food Sec. Strategy                                                CN
IEC                 BPS                BPS                  CN
9.    For the IEC tasks, BPS will be staffed with an IEC specialist. There is no need of
additional staff to oversee the Food-for-Work component, given the high specialized competence
of the executing agency. There is also no provision for a BPS Nutritionist, as the executing
agency is as it were 'in-house' and also fully decentralized. In practice therefore, the functions
are delegated down one level, with the Regional Nutritionists acting as Executing Agents and the
Regional Coordinators as Supervisors. However, it should be recognised that this increases the
burden on the national coordination, though this is somewhat offset by the phasing of PCN
activities with Toliary taking the temporal and technical lead.
10.   The functional responsibility for the accounting and financial management system (which
includes coordinating disbursement request) lies with the BPS Finance and Administration
Officer, supported by the BPS Accountant and a Regional Accountant in Toliary. For the time
being, the regional finance and accounts for Antananarivo will be handled (separately) by BPS.
For FID, which is autonomous, the corresponding role is assumed by the FID Finance and
Administration Officers at National and Regional levels, as detailed in the FID organisation
manual.
11.   Disbursement requests will be collated and coordinated for al components (including
FID) by BPS. This is the only area in which BPS or SECALINE Coordination has a functional
management role vis-a-vis FID.
12.   By oordination is meant ensuring that project execution proceeds towards intended goals,
that proper analysis of performance is undertaken, that corrective actions are identified and
implemented as and when needed, that all active and passive stakeholders receive timely
information, that their reactions are sollicted and acted upon, that monitoring and evaluation
activities are performed (see Annex VII), and that continuous liaison with participating donors
and Government bodies is maintained. The following table summarizes:



- 57 -                      ANNEX VI
Coordination by proiect subcomponent
Component\Region      Antananarivo          Toliary             National
FID                 DE                  DE                 CA
Food-for-Work            CN
PCN                 CN                  CN
IDD                                                         CN
Food Sec. Strategy                                                CN
IEC                 CN                  CN                 CN
13.   The amount of work required by the CN will require some delegation of tasks to the BPS
and the CR, acting as his support staff.
14.   The two non-line national coordinating bodies, General Assembly (AG) for FID and
Comite Interministeriel de Coordination du Projet SECALINE (CICS) for the other components,
have two roles, one formalized and one more informal. The formal roles correspond to what is
commonly treated at annual meetings, as well as defining the general policies to be pursued. The
CICS also approves annual work plans and budgets for the different components, and decides on
any major corrective measures required (in the case of FID, these functions are delegated to the
CA). Considering that they include members from a wide range of institutions, governmental and
private, local and international, their informal - and arguably more effective - role should be as
facilitators, in identifying and lobbying against constraints to the optimum use of private and
NGO institutions, and in enhancing interaction between SECALINE and other donor-funded
programs.
15.   At the regional level, semi-formalized advisory grou  with similar composition will be
formed to assist the CRs in evaluating beneficiary feedback and reorient focus accordingly. In
the case of FID, the Regional Advisory Committee will assume this role.
16.   Coordination between FID and SECALINE. The independence of FID is a key concept
but leads to the need to coordinate FID activities with other SECALINE components to achieve
a synergistic impact. Partially, this is accomplished by IEC promotion of FID with beneficiary
groups through the PCN animators and by information to NGOs. Responsibility for ensuring
general adherence to SECALINE objectives will lie with the National Coordinator, who should -
though this is not formally mandated - normally be a member of the FID Board of Directors.
At the regional level, practical project-oriented coordination is less of a problem since the
Regional Coordinator is an ex officio member of the Regional Advisory Committee.



- 58 -                        ANNEX VI
F. Management information system
17.   The management information system  will be essentially based on monthlyl1/,
quarterly and annual reports from the executing agencies to the respective supervisory level, and
from there in consolidated form to the national level, and in executive form to Government and
donors. There are four main input circuits: (a) routine monitoring and progress reporting by
operators and executing agencies; (b) supervision reports from line managers; (c) accounting and
financial management system; and (d) demanded or planned 'studies' (for evaluation, problem
diagnosis, beneficiary feedback).l2/
18.   At each consolidation and decision level, managers will not only compile information,
but also analyze and interpret the information, and propose corrective measures as required in
a milestone action plan.
19.   A detailed report on the management information system, including monitoring and
evaluation, has been prepared.
G. Service functions
20.   Certain service tasks common to several components will be handled by the National
Coordinator/BPS, though the extent will vary from component to component, based on practical
considerations. The exact distribution of responsibility will be specified in the contracts with the
respective executing agencies, or as per ad hoc agreements. These tasks may include organizing
international and large-scale domestic procurement, recruitment of personnel, arranging audits
and similar. In any case, CN/BPS will be responsible for verifying that procurement and
recruitment adhere to appropriate Government/Bank rules, and that audits are performed as
required (cf main text).
H. Training and support
21.   Project management by objectives, as is implied by the above structure, is generally
rather unfamiliar to Malagasy professionals. Practical training in project management techniques
will therefore be given at an early stage to key staff (National and Regional Coordinators, BPS
Executive Director and the Finance and Administration Officer). Local sessions for second-line
staff will be organized as needed. In addition, management aspects will be included in the
supervision program. Adoption of an accounting and financial management system by the project
and FID acceptable to the Bank is a condition of credit effectiveness. Training of project staff in
its use will be done by the Accounting firm contracted to design the system. All project staff will
also receive appropriate computer training. A detailed report on the management information
system (including monitoring and evaluation) has been prepared by a Consultant.
11/ For financial and acounting reports
12/ Details of (a) and (d) are given in Annex VII



- 59 -                       ANNEX VI
Attachment : Terms of Reference for Key Project Management Staff
National SECALINE Coordinator
1.    The National Coordinator represents the Government and is appointed by decree signed
by the Prime Minister and approved in the Council of Government. As such he/she is responsible
for (a) coordinating all project activities except FID and reporting regularly to, and liaising with
the Prime Minister, the interministerial steering committee (CICS), and donors; (b) supervising
the regional coordinators; (c) supervising the national IEC sub-component; (d) supervising the
IDD component; (e) supervising the Food Security Strategy component; (f) organizing and
coordinating the project financial and accounting management, reporting and auditing system; (g)
organizing and coordinating the monitoring & evaluation and management information systems;
(h) supervising international and large-scale domestic procurement; (i) establishing and
supervising contracts with executing agencies; and 0) supervising and recruiting project
personnel.
2.    The National Coordinator will delegate some of the above responsibilities to the BPS
Office Director and the Regional Coordinators.
3.    The National Coordinator will be responsible for harmonization of approach and liaison
between SECALINE and FID.
Regional SECALINE Coordinator
4.    The Regional Coordinator is appointed following the recommendation of the National
Coordinatorby an arrete of the Prime Minister and reports to the National Coordinator. The
Regional Coordinator performs his duties by delegation from and under the supervision of the
National Coordinator. He/she is responsible for (a) managing technically, financially and
administratively the execution of the regional PCN component; (b) managing technically,
financially and administratively the execution of the regional IEC component; (c) supervising and
coordinating monitoring and evaluation activities for all components in the region; (d) liaising
with regional FID office in order to coordinate FID and SECALINE activities; and (e) serving
as ex officio member of the FID Regional Advisory Commitee; (f) supervising and managing
regional SECALINE staff; and (g) performing any other tasks delegated by the National
Coordinator.
5.    The Regional Coordinator will as far as practical and prudent delegate these tasks to the
relevant regional technical staff.
BPS Office Director
6.    The BPS Office Director will work under the authority of the National Coordinator and,
as such be responsible for (a) secretarial and staff support functions to the National Coordinator
and CICS; (b) executing the National IEC sub-component; (c) supervising the Food-for-Work
component; (d) supervising the PCN sub-components; (e) supervising the regional IEC sub-
components; (e) managing the project office (BPS); (f) managing accounts and finance; (g)
managing and executing procurement; (h) supervising M&E activties; (i) recruiting consultants;
(j) coordinating and/or organizing training programs; and (k) preparing quarterly, bi-annual and
annual reports.



-60 -                          ANNEXVYI
7.     The BPS Office Director will as far as practical and prudent delegate these tasks to the
relevant BPS technical staff.
FID Executive Director
8.     The FID Executive Director performs his/her duties under the direction and supervision
of the Board of Directors, and is responsible for the day-to-day management of FID, in addition
to serving as Secretary to the Board. As such, the Executive Director is responsible for (a)
technically, financially and administratively managing the Fund, including recruiting and
supervising staff, mobilising and disbursing funds; (b) coordinating and supervising national and
international consultants; (c) preparing overall FID programs and work plans in conformity with
FID policies; (d) preparing and executing the FID budgets, as approved by the Board (e)
preparing documents for Board submission, in particular for projects above the threshold defined
by FID Manual of Procedures; (f) approving projects within intermediate thresholds, by
delegation from the Board; (g) preparing quarterly and annual reports; (h) supervising M&E
activities; (i) supervising regional directors; and (j) performing any other matters which may be
delegated by the Board.
9.     The FID Executive Director will as far as practical and prudent delegate these tasks to
the relevant National FID technical staff.
FID Resional Directoc
10.   The Regional Director performs his duties by delegation from and under the supervision
of the Executive Director, and as such is responsible for promoting, appraising, implementing
and monitoring projects within the region. In particular he/she is responsible for (a) technically,
financially and administratively managing the Fund in the region, including managing regional
staff; (b) promoting and appraising projects; (c) approving projects below the provincial
threshold; (c) preparing work plans and budgets; (d) supervising monitoring and evaluation of
FID-financed activities; and (e) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports.
11.   The Regional Director will as far as practical and prudent delegate these tasks to the
relevant regional FID technical staff.



- 61 -                       ANNEX VII
ANNEX VIII: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. General
1.    Approach.  This annex deals with M&E as seen from the perspective of SECALINE
project management and externally from Donors/Government. M&E information basically comes
from four sources: (a) routine monitoring and progress reporting by operators and executing
agencies, as specified below; (b) supervision reports by SECALINE line managers; (c) reports
from the accounting and financial management system which will include appropriate cost
accounting categories; and (d) studies, surveys and operational research commissioned by the
SECALINE and FID M&E Officers or the Regional Coordinators (as well as outside surveys and
studies, of which there are quite a few with direct relevance).
2.    Organization. All routine monitoring information is provided by the operators to the
respective executing agencies, who consolidate data and report to the corresponding SECALINE
supervisors, who in turn report to the SECALINE coordinators and the National M&E Officer
(cf Annex VI, section on MIS), basically on a quarterly basis. Information from supervision
reports pertaining to beneficiary feedback are directly channelled to the M&E Officer. The M&E
Officer is responsible for ensuring the quality and continuity of monitoring reporting, and for
analyzing the information for evaluation-related purposes. Responsibility for operational analysis
and subsequent decision-making lies with the respective line managers (supervisors, coordinators).
3.    The SECALINE M&E Officer is responsible for responding to requests for diagnostic
studies and operational research actions from line managers, or may commission studies on his
own initiative, within his/her budgetary limits. The M&E Officer prepares terms of reference for
studies, surveys and evaluations, contracts out actual work (under BPS supervision), and
synthesizes results for decision-making or evaluation. He/she also schedules all evaluation tasks
so that results will be available in time for mid-term reviews etc. As a rule all major work is
contracted out. If possible, framework agreements should be negotiated with suitable research
groups, for example at the universities, and semi-formal advisory groups created. The FID M&E
Officer performs the same functions for FID.
4.    The same setup is reproduced at the regional level, at least in Toliary, where the Regional
Coordinator should have the authority to commission similar work on a local scale using the
resources at the University of Toliary.
5.    The monitoring indicators are described below for each component. The general
presentation will adhere to a project planning-by-objectives approach, i.e comparing
accomplishments for the period in question (quarter) and cumulative since inception with the
corresponding work plan goals.
6.    Evaluation. The specific evaluation requirements are detailed under each component.
However, it is useful to summarize the general questions that evaluations should always address:
- Does the component address the real problems of the local communities?
- Does the component adequately target the most vulnerable groups?
- Are the costs sufficiently low to permit replication without (or with reduced) subsidy?



- 62 -                        ANNEX VII
- Can activities be sustained without and beyond SECALINE?
- Are structure and management sufficiently flexible to respond to changing circumstances
and evolving beneficiary demand?
- Has the project managed to create or promote sustainable community action and
motivation?
B. Social Fund (FID)
7.    FID is an autonomous organization with its own separate management, and its own M&E
system, as described in the FID Manual of Procedures (MdP). The FID M&E system is designed
to be consistent with the approach used for SECALINE generally. M&E activities are managed
by a National FID M&E Officer.
8.    FID finances indirectly through intermediate implementing agencies ('operators') activities
in the following fields:
- Local community basic infrastructure
- Income-generating activities
- Private sector support to small and micro-enterprises
9.    Given the heterogeneous nature of the activities financed, the details and scope of M&E
has to be tailored to each field's particularities. This has been developed for the internal M&E
in FID, with specific indicators tailored to the formalized typology of operations. For the purpose
of M&E, the basic unit of activity is an 'operation', appropriately defined for each field in the
MdP (e.g. construction of wells in a particular community). Beneficiaries are likewise defined
as appropriate for each field (e.g. jobs created for income-generating activities, users/community
members for infrastructure). However, the internal level is too detailed for overall project-level
monitoring, where the following simplified schema will be applied instead (tabulated by field and
faritany, mapped by fivondronona):
- number of operators contracted
- number of operations executed
- number of operations integrated with other SECALINE activities
- amount of disbursement
- average cost per operation
- number of beneficiaries
- average cost per beneficiary
10.   Evaluation. FID will on a continuing basis evaluate its portfolio on a selective basis, in
addition to the annual self-evaluations performed by each operator In addition, FID will conduct
beneficiary assessment surveys. These should be sufficient for SECALINE purposes as well, if
complemented for the mid-term review by (a) a separate SECALINE-piloted beneficiary survey.
This would concentrate on targeting on vulnerable households, response to local needs,
community involvement, appreciation of NGO roles and complementarity with other SECALINE
components, all interpreted from a SECALINE perspective (which is or may be different from



-63 -                         ANNEX VII
FID's perspective). (b) A similar 'intermediate beneficiary' assessment survey would be
conducted with participating NGOs and other operators. (c) Finally, an institutional/management
analysis will assess the institutional performance of FID, in particular its interaction with NGOs
and other operators, and the prospects for long-term sustainability of FID. This latter study
should be phased as to incorporate the findings of the other two evaluations in its terms of
reference. (For practical reasons, the same study should perform a similar assessment of
SECALINE project organization and management.)
C. Urban Food-for-Work
11.   The Food-for-Work component will provide short-term food transfers to the poorest
population groups as remuneraton for work on building and rehabilitating small-scale
infrastructure in their local community (fokontany). The fokontany will be actively involved as
maitre d'oeuvre, and the community will have to prove commitment to maintaining them after
completion. A package of social interventions (sanitary education, first aid and similar) will be
offered to participating workers. The component will - at least initially - be restricted to urban
Antananarivo.
12.   For monitoring the following indicators will be used:
- Number of operations (and map with respective fokontany)
- Number of beneficiaries
- Number of person-days worked
- average cost per operation
- average cost per person-day of work
by type of operation (Rehabilitation/construction, SECALINE-ensured maintenance, Community-
ensured maintenance, Canal Clearance, Fokontany complementary operations)
- Quantity of rice distributed (and actual ration per person-day worked)
- Quantity of foodstuffs monetarized (for WFP monitoring)
- Food stock status (movements and stock; for WFP)
- Brief list of social intervention activities (but see also IEC, infra)
Indicators relating to construction and maintenance work norms and unit costs will also be
compiled by the executing agency, to be used for the technical evaluation of works.
13.   Evaluation will concern the following topics:
- Technical quality and relevance of works in relation to urban infrastructure
improvement
- Targeting on poorest neighborhoods and beneficiaries



- 64 -                        ANNEX VII
- Fokontany/community involvement, particularly in relation to future maintenance
- Impact on beneficiaries as perceived by themselves
The last three topics would be covered by beneficiary assessment surveys, a comprehensive one
in anticipation of the mid-term review, and smaller ones on a sample of fokontany once a year.
The mid-term review will particularly assess the possibility of extending the component to other
cities.
D. Community nutrition proeram (PCN)
14.   The PCN component will, with the active participation of the local community, establish
a a series of community nutrition centers each staffed with a (volontary) community nutrition
agent (ACN). The ACN will growth monitor under-five children, identify those that are
malnourished, include them in a supplementary feeding program or refer them to nutritional
rehabilitation center as appropriate, conduct nutritional education sessions, and orient the
community towards FID activities wherever possible.
15.   The very intensive focus on individuals requires a fairly detailed range of indicators at
the executing agency level, in this case the regional SECALINE coordinators. Only the project-
level indicators are presented here (tabulated by province and mapped by fivondronona):
- Number of operational nutrition centers (and map)
- Number of ACNs in active preparation (but not yet operational)
- Number of target children in growth surveillance (and coverage rate)
- Number of children in supplementary feeding (and coverage rate)
- Number of children referred to rehabilitation (and coverage rate)
- Cost per supplementary meal
- Cost per nutrition center
- Food stock movements and purchases (for WFP monitoring
16.   The calculation of coverage rates requires knowing the actual number of under-five
children as well as the number of moderately and severely malnourished under-fives in the target
fivondronona. Estimates of these will be prepared and revised periodically (not less than once a
year) based on all available data (inside and outside SECALINE) under the responsibility of the
National M&E Officer.
17.   Evaluation. A base-line KAP survey on nutrition together with a module on nutritional
status will be conducted in 1993 by UNICEF, and will be repeated in 1997 to allow impact
evaluation. A base-line 'quantitative-qualitative' beneficiary assessment survey will be conducted
not later than 199314/, and repeated in 1995 (for the mid-term review) and in 1997 (for
14/ It has already finished in Toliary.



- 65 -                      ANNE.XVII
project completion). The mid-term review will particularly focus on 'community satisfaction with
.PCN'.
E. Iodine deficiency disorder (IDD) control program
18.   SECALINE will finance those parts of the National IDD Control Program not covered
by other donors. UNICEF will be the executing agency (vis-a-vs SECALINE). A National IDD
Coordinator and a joint public/private coordinating committee will be attached to the Ministry
of Health. The main constituents are (cf Annex IV):
- Distribution of iodized oil capsules to pregnant women and under-fours in high
endemicity areas (one-time bridging measure before salt iodation)
- salt iodatio4 at production source
- IEC campaigns on dietary habits, salt consumption and IDD awareness
SECALINE will (probably) only be concerned with the first two (The National Program and
agreement with UNICEF will be finalized by mid-January 1993).
19.   Responsibility vis-a-vis SECALINE for M&E will lie with UNICEF but will be managed
by the IDD coordinator. A preliminary plan for M&E organization and activities has already been
prepared by Consultants commissioned by UNICEF and the Ministry of Healthl5/. M&E will
be based on seven sentinel posts, one for each Province plus Antananarivo City, chosen to be
reasonably indicative of the IDD zones in their respective areas.
20.   Monitoring. A fairly detailed list of IDD and IEC indicators are proposed in the above
referenced report. However, SECALINE being a passive partner, its monitoring needs are much
reduced and can be restricted to a few basic implementation progress elements:
General
- Nr of sentinel posts operating correctly
- M&E and progress reports regularly produced according to plan
Capsule distribution
- Nr of capsules distributed by target category (pregnant women and under-fours) and by
zone (table by province and map of percentage coverage disaggregated by fivondronona)
- average unit cost per distributed capsule
15/D. Lantum, Lutte contre les troubles dusa  la carence en iode I Madagascar - Plan d'action
1993 -1999, UNICEF/MINSAN, Nov 1992



- 66 -                        ANNEX VII
Salt iodation
- Establishment of legal and regulatory framework
- Operational installation of iodation equipment at producers
- Percentage of salt iodized at source by producer and overall
- Percentage of iodized salt (with adequate iodine content) at household level by sentinel
post
- average unit cost of iodation
IEC
- brief list of IEC activities undertaken (for information only)
21.   Evaluation. A base-line survey is in progress at the sentinel sites, comprising IDD
prevalence, KAP investigation on food and dietary practices, and survey of salt retailing. Follow-
up evaluation surveys will be conducted in 1995 (in time for SECALINE mid-term review), in
1997 (input to SECALINE terminal assessment) and in 1999 (end of National IDD Program).
Ultimately, there are only two key elements to address in the evaluations:
- Degree of elimination of IDD disorders
- Indefinite sustainability of 100% salt iodation at source (producers) and destination
(household)
For the mid-term review, apart from the normal review of progress, the main focus should be
on assessing the different options for long-term recovery of recurrent iodation costs.
F. IEC Component
22.   The IEC component has no real independent function per se, but supports the
implementation and perpetuation of the activities conducted under the other components (except
IDD, where MINSAN/UNICEF is also responsible for IEC activities). Strictly speaking
therefore, IEC is a secondary input and as such of indirect interest only to monitoring which
concentrates on outputs. Its "output" is reception and acceptance of transmitted messages by
beneficiaries, and monitoring this is more akin to evaluation than process monitoring.
Nevertheless, for practical purposes it makes sense to summarize IEC activities under a separate
heading to assist in assessing the coherence and effectiveness of the SECALINE IEC strategy as
defined during project preparationl6/, as well as the work of the three IEC specialists.
23.   For process monitoring milestones will be used, recapitulating the major IEC actions
planned, broken down in the following framework, with one matrix for each component:
16/ M. Andrien, La strategie d'information-6ducation-communication du projet SECALINE,
Nov 1992



- 67 -                        ANNEX VII
Primary         Secondary          Tertiary
Tactic \ Audience       Communities          NGOs          Decison-makers
Create favorable political
climate for SECALINE
Conduct mass media
activities
Strengthen interpersonal
communication
A complete list of activities and milestones will be prepared by the IEC specialists in their initial
work plan (target date: July 1993; only the PCN list is currently available in draft)
24.   For output monitoring, or on-going evaluation, the mechanism of operational research
groups will be employed, using simplified versions of the large-scale beneficiary assessment
surveys (see above, para 17) applied on a limited sample basis at 6-12 month intervals. These will
be complemented by indicative information gleaned during regular supervisionvisits. A objecti. e-
oriented approach to IEC implies a clear delimitation and modularization of "messages" to be
propagated. Otherwise, it is difficult to assess specific aspects of the IEC campaigns. The
responsibility for modularizing the messages lies with the IEC specialists, who will also ensure
that the survey questionnaires and analyses reflect this structure. Quantitative aspects will be
monitored by estimation of target audience size and unit cost of IEC per target entity (individual,
household etc as appropriate).
25.   Evaluation. Only for the PCN component are large scale evaluation surveys (KAP,
beneficiary assessment) scheduled that specifically stress the IEC aspects (see above para 17). For
the other components, the results of the on-going evaluations will be used to assess the IEC
aspects. For the mid-term review, the following topics are central:
- Are target groups adequately reached (number reached and coverage)?
- Have the "messages" been properly understood?
- Have the "messages" been accepted?
- Are there indications of concomitant changes in practices?
G. National Food Security Strategv
26.   The output of this component is a document containing policies and actions that aim to
improve Madagascar's food security in the long term, to be prepared by national and international
expertise. They would cover the following topics:
- macroeconomic policies



- 68 -                        ANNEX VII
- sectoral development policies
- health and nutrition improvement among the poor
- access to income-earning opportunities by the poor
The draft strategy would be discussed in a national seminar and a final version subsequently
presented to Government for adoption. Actual implementation of some or all of the
recommnendations during the life of SECALINE, while obviously desirable, is not explicitly part
of the project.
27.   Monitoring would basically be on milestones:
- Start of study work
- Discussion drafts available, by topic
- Official drafts available, by topic
- National seminar held
- Strategy presented to Government
- Strategy adopted by Government
TXhe actual timetable will be prepared by the contracted Research Institutes as part of their initial
work plan (target date: no later than November 1993).
28.   Evaluatio would cover two aspects:
- Coherence and technical feasibility of strategy
- Degree of dissemination among and internalization by Malagasy stakeholders and
decision-makers (assessment of practical and political feasibility, "beneficiary
feedback' as it were).
The major effort should be during the mid-term review, as this is the only real opportunity to
redirect focus if need be.



- 69 -                            Annex VII
ANNEX VIII: LETTER OF FOOD SECURfTY POLICY
Antananarivo, le 04 fevrier 1993
LE GOUVERNEMENT DE MADAGASCAR
I     Monsieur Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Directeur D6partement g6ographique III
Region Afrique
Banque Mondiale, Washington DC, USA
Objet: Lettre de Politigue de S6curit6 Alimentaire
Monsieur le Directeur,
Le nombre de personnes souffrant d'ins6curite alimentaire, ne disposant pas en permanence
de suffisamment de nourriture pour pouvoir mener une vie saine et active, n'a cess6 d'augmenter au
cours des deux demieres d6cennies et repr6sente I l'heure actuelle 30% a 40% des m6 .ages
malgaches. Devant cette situation intol6rable, le Gouvernement est d6termin6 I s'attaquer aux aspects
de l'ins6curit6 alimentaire qui ne sont pas trait6s par les op6rations d'ajustement, ni par les
investissements dans l'agriculture, l'infrastructure et les secteurs sociaux.
En la matibre, il n'existe pas de strat6gie type ou autonome; celle-ci doit obligatoirement
s'int6grer dans la strategie globale mise en oeuvre par le Gouvernement en application du Programme
d'Ajustement Structurel, et avoir pour objectif I terme une croissance 6conomique positive durable.
Ce programme forme un tout coh6rent et touche tous les secteurs de la vie 6conomique et sociale.
Ii importe de rappeler que pour le Gouvernement l'objectif de s6curit6 alimentaire est une
constante des r6formes mises en oeuvre r6cemment et des actions que les autorites entendent
poursuivre dans l'avenir. L'accent sera mis sur la n6cessit6 de d6velopper dans les meilleurs delais
une strat6gie, et au plus tard avant le 30 juin 1995 bas6e sur tous les facteurs 6conomiques et sociaux
qui limitent l'acces des familles a la securit6 alimentaire.
Les actions porteront en priorite au plan 6conomique, sur la lev6e des contraintes au niveau
des infrastructures de base (routes, r6seaux hydrauliques...) et au plan social, sur I'att6nuation de la
pression d6mographique sur le plan social.
Le Gouvemement estime que la solution des problemes de s6curit6 alimentaire est
subordonn6e:
-     a des conditions d'approvisionnements suffisants, et
-     a la possibilit6 d'acquisition des aliments necessaires grace a des revenus suffisants
ou par autoproduction.
11 s'agit de r6duire 1'insecurit6 alimentaire et l'incidence de la malnutrition grAce k des projets
gen6rateurs de revenu et I des programmes de nutrition cibl6s. Ce serait l'objectif du Projet de
S6curit6 Alimentaire et de Nutrition (SECALINE).



- 70 -                              Annex  VIII
Neanmoins, le Projet SECALINE ne peut couvrir tous les domaines et secteurs et que le
Projet doit faire un choix parmi les actions I entreprendre.
La malnutrition n'a pas seulement ses origines dans une insuffisance de pouvoir d'achat, mais
egalement dans un ensemble d'autres facteurs: sante, hygiene, education, developpement des
ressources humaines, maladies, disponibilite d'eau, sans oublier les micronutriments et les
connaissances en matiere d'alimentation. Une strategie nationale de nutrition sera une composante
importante de notre strategie de securite alimentaire.
Les rapports provisoires resultant des travaux preparatoires traitent des dimensions suivantes
de la securite alimentaire: aspects micro-economiques, commercialisation et production agricoles,
activites generatrices de revenu, education nutritionnelle, amelioration des aliments et renforcement
des institutions concernees. Ces travaux fournissent suffisamment d'elements pour demarrer un
processus de reflexion pour l'elaboration d'une strategie detaillee. La strategie sera elaboree sous
la responsabilite du Comite Interministeriel de Coordination du Projet SECALINE dont la mise en
oeuvre sera soumise I l'approbation du Gouvernement.
Bien que cette strategie s'attele I resoudre des problemes d'ordre structurel, aussi longtemps
que cela s'avere necessaire un systeme d'alerte rapide devrait &re mis en place pour s'attaquer aux
phenomenes saisonniers ou exceptionnels (cyclones, secheresse etc).
Le Gouvernement est fermement convaincu que la mise en oeuvre de cette strategie reduira
de facon durable le nombre de gens souffrant d'insecurite alimentaire.
Monsieur le Directeur,
Je ne doute pas de pouvoir compter sur votre aide appreciable pour la realisation de ce
programme et je vous prie de croire en l'assurance de ma haute consideration.
Le Premier Ministre
Chef du Gouvernement
Guy Willy RAZANAMASY



MADAGASCAR
Food Security & Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 51. Project Management
Detalled Cost Table
FMG
Quantity                Unit Cost                      Base Costs in tUS
94    95    96    97 Total          94-97            94        95         96        97     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Technical Assistance
Audit                            -         -     -     -              -          10000     10000     10000      10000     40000
Accounting Firm                I    0       1     0     2       18000000        10000          0     10000          0     20000
Early Warning System          -     -      -     -     -              -         50000      50000     50000      50000    200000
Sub-total                                                                        70000     60000      70000      60000    260000
B. Local TA Salaries BEPS
National Coordinator          12    12    12    12   48         3330000         22200      22200     22200      22200     88800
Director                      12    12    12    12   48          2430000        16200      16200   . 16200      16200     64800
Financial Manager             12    12    12    12    48         1134000         7560       7560      7560       7560     30240
Accountant                    12    12    12    12   48          1134000         7560       7560      7560       7560     30240
HIS Specialist                12    12    12    12   48          1134000         7560       7560      7560       7560     30240
.-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -0
Sub-total                                                                        61080      61080     61080      61080    244320
C. Training                                                                                                                                                I
Tralning Abroad                1     1      1     1     4      27000000         15000      15000     15000      15000     60000
Local Training                 1     1      1     1     4       5400000          3000       3000      3000       3000     12000
.....--    --------   -- -- --   -- - - -   ---- -----. .... N 
Sub-total                                                                        18000      18000     18000      18000     72000
D. Equipment
Photocopier                    0     1      0     0     1       18000000            0      10000         0          0     10000
FWO (2)                        2     0     0      0     2      54000000         60000          0         0          0     60000
Motorcycles                    2     0      0     0     2        1800000         2000          0         0          0      2000
__  __ __  ____- -------  --__----- ----------- --r---- ~
Sub-Total                                                                        62000      10000       I 0          0     72000
-- - - -     - - - -   - -- - - - - - - - -7- z----
rotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                 21`1080    149080    14'O80    139080    648320
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs
Vehicle Oper. & Maint.         7     7      7     7    28       9000000         35000      35000     35000      35000    140000
Rent & Utulitles (months)    12    12    12    12    48         6000000         40000      40000     40000      40000    160000
Other Oper. costs             12    12    12    12   48          1500000        10000      10000     10000      10000     40000
Travel Allowances             -     -      -     -     -              -          5000       5000      5000       5000     20000
Secretaries (2)               24    24    24    24    96         423000          5640       5640      5640       5640     22560
Drivers (4)                   48    48    48    48   192          180000         4800       4800      4800       4800     19200
Guards (6)                    72    72    72    72   288          117000         4680       4680      4680       4680     18720
Sub-Totat                                                                        105120    105120    105120    105120    420480
total REtUJRRE,N  CoStS                                                                 105120    105120    105120    105120    420480
==== == U====== =-,====== *=xw===z=  ---===
Total                                                                                316200    254200    254200    244200   1068800
1/28/1993  9:52



MADAGASCAR
Food Security S, Nutritlon Project
Project Cost Estl_tes
Table 71. PPF & Japan Grant
Detailed Cost Table
FNG
Quantity               Unit Cost                      Base Coats In SUS
SSZSSUS=tSSSSSDSSU.UUUs   S.sfls..nss    USSfStSSflwsns.nussuus*mssn:nuessuarnsssuzs-sus
94    95    96    97 Total          94-97           94        95        96         97     Total
1. INVSTNENT COSTS
................i
A. IEC Cemponsnt
Tecdnical Assistence          1     0     0     0     1      32400000         180I0         0         0          0     1o000
Locst Canaulttnt             3      0     0     0     3       3600000          5000         0         0          0      5000
Other                        -        -     -                                  5000         0         0          0      5000
Sub-Total                                                                      28000         0         0          0     28000
8. FID
TA & tecruitmsnt             -           -       *                           100000         0         0          0    100000
Projects                        -     -     -        -                        50000         0         0          0     50000
Equipment                             -     -        -              -        185000         0         0          0    185000
Operating Expenses                 -     -     -     -              -         40000         0         0          0     40000
Sub-Total                                                                     375000         0         0          0    375000
C. PCN Tulear
Test Livret PC                  -        -     -     -              -          2500         0         0          0      2500
Regional Coordinator         18     0     0     0    18        2200000        22000         0         0          0     22000                                  4
IEC Specialist              12      0     0     0    12        880000          5867         0         0         0       5867
Nutritionist                 12     0     0     0    12         80oooo         5867         0         0          0      5867
Accountant                   16     0     0     0    18         440000         4400         0         0          0      4400
Secretary                    18     0     0     0    18         341000         3410         0         0          0      3410
Driver                       42     0     0     0    42         180000         4200         0         0          0      4200
Guard                        18     0     0     0    18         110000         1100         0         0          0      1100
FWD (Z)                      2      0     0     0     2      54000000         60000         0         0          0     60000
Sedan                         1     0     0     0     1       32400000        18000         0         0          0    18000
Infrastructure Reh. WFP     -      -     -     -     -              -         15000         0         0          0     15000
Computers                     1     0     0     0     1       18000000        10000         0         0          0    .10000
Photocopier                   1     0     0     0     1       18000000        10000         0         0          0     10000
Office Furniture             -     -     -     -     -              -          6500         0         0          0      6500
Tralning                     -                                                17778         0         0,         0     17778
Operating Expenses           -     -     -     -     -              -         28489         0         0          0     28489
Travl Allowanes              -     -     -     -     -              -          429          0         0          0      4429
Slb-Total                                                                     219539         0          0         0    219539
D. PCN Tans
Regional Coordinator         18     0     0     0    18        2200000        22000         0         0          0     22000
IEC Specialist              12      0     0     0    12        880000          5867         0         0          0      5867
Per dlem                    100     0     0     0   100          57000         3167         0         0          0      3167
Operating Expnes             -     -     -     -     -              -         11111         0          0         0     11111
Sub-Total                                                                      42144         0          0         0     42144
E. HINO
Consulting firm              -     -     -     -     -              -        125000         0          0         0    125000
Operating Expenrses          -     -     -     -      -             -         20000         0          0         0     20000
Sub-Totel                                                                     145000         0          0         0    145000
F. BPS Project Management
Nationrl Coordinetor         18     0     0     0    18        3000000        30000         0          0         0     30000



Director BPS                    18      0      0      0    18         2200000          22000           0          0           0      22000
Accountant & Proc. Spec.    18          0      0      0    18         1000000          10000           0          0           0      10000
financial Manager               18      0      0      0    18         1000000          10000           0          0           0      10000
IEC Specaleist                  12      0     0      0    12          1100000           7333           0          0          0       7333
Nutrition Speclatist            13      0      0      0    13         1100000           7944           0          0           0       7944
MIS Specialist                  12      0      0      0    12         1100000           7333           0          0           0       7333
Secretaries                     60      0      0      0    60          385000          12833           0          0           0      12833
Drivers                         48      0      0      0    48          165000           4400           0          0           0       4400
Guards                          72      0      0      0    72          110000           4400           0          0           0       4400
Travel Allowances                      -      -      -     -               -            8708           0          0          0       8708
Training                        -      -      -      -     -               -          120000           0          0          0    120000
Accounting Firm Contract           -      -      -      -                   -          70000           0          0           0      70000
Fax, phone, photocopier         -      -      -      -     -               -           25000           0          0          0      25000
Computers                        3      0      0      0     3        18000000          30000           0          0           0      30000
Sedan                            2      0      0      0     2       39250000           43611           0          0           0      43611
Office Furniture                -      -      -      -      -               -          16667           0          0           0      16667
Typewriter                      -      -      -      -     -               -             500           0          0           0        500
Operating Expenses                        -          -      -               -          60000           0          0           0      60000
Su*b-Total                                                                             490731           0          0           0    490731
G. Other TA
Iodine                           2     0      0      0      2        3600000            4000          0           0          0       4000
Alerte Precoce                  -      -      -      -      -               -           5000           0          0           0       5000
Stb-Total                                                                                9000           0          0           0       9000
H. Japan Grant TA                        -         -      -      -               -         500000            0          0          0    S00000
1. OSA Expenses                             -      -      -      -               -         200000           0           0          0    200000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        2009414           0          0           0   2009414
s=~=;=;==- an====-== Ban=.==== 3a.;=u=            ....flt
Total                                                                                     2009414            0          0          0   2009414
SI/a/199S3Z Ufl                                                                             = =9 :52ss sa                           us    fl
1/28/199 3  9:5Z2
.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MADAGASCAR
Food Security & Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 11. PCN Tulear
Detailed Cost Table
FMG
Quantity               Unit Cost                    Base Costs in SUS
=s=ss=St====5= ===   S==   S===5S=a===    ==aatut===sssfl=== ==========S=== ==
94    95   96   97 Total           94-97          94        95        96        97    Total
...........................................-----------  ---------------------------------..----.-.........------------....  ..  . 
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehictes
Four whel drive              2      0    0    0      2      39600000        44000         0         0         0    44000
Sedan                         1    0    0    0        1      27000000       15000         0         0         0    15000
Motorcycles                  30    30   40   50   150         1800000       30000    30000    40000       50000    150000
Bicycles                    30    30   40   50   150          500000         8333      8333     11111     13889    41667
Sub-Total                                                                    97333    38333    51111       63889    250667
B. Food                           -     -    -    -       -             -        107718    187931    294838    294838   885324
C. Rehabilitation
Centres Polyvalents         30    30   40   50   150         18000000      300000   300000   400000    500000   1500000
CRT                           7     0    0    0       7      10000000       38889         0         0         0    38889
Magasin                            -    -    -       -             -         16667        0         0         0    16667
Sub-Total                                                                   355556   300000   400000    500000   1555556
D. Equipment
Centres Polyvalents         30    30   40   50   150          1500000        25000    25000    33333      41667   125000
CRT                           7     0     0    0      7       3000000        11667        0         0         0     11667
Comiputers                    2     0     0    0      2      18000000        20000        0         0         0    20000
Sub-Total                                                                    56667    25000    33333       41667    156667
E. Materials
Centres Polyv.               30    30    40   50   150         200000        3333      3333      4444      5556    16667
CRT                           7     0    0    0       7        200000          778        0         0         0       778
Cooking utens. ctr. polyv    -     -     -    -      -             -         6134      6134      8179      10223    30671
Cooking utens. CRT            7     0    0    0       7        368000         1431        0         0         0      1431
Supplies centres polyv.      30    30   40   50   150          200000        3333      3333      4444      5556    16667
SupplIes CRT                  7     0    0    0       7        20000          778         0         0         0       778
.....--    --------   ..... a.....     .....   ......     ...... .........  ... ...... 
Sub-Total                                                                     15788     12801     17068    21334    66991
F. Personmel
Coordinator                  12   12   12   12   48           2000000        13333     13333    13333      13333    53333
Nutrition Spec.              12   12   12   12   48            800000         5333     5333      5333      5333    21333
IEC Specialist              12   12   12   12   48            800000         5333      5333      5333      5333    21333
Sub-Total                                                                     24000    24000    24000      24000    96000
C. Technical Assistance
S/T Intl. TA                  1     1    1    1    4         36000000        20000     20000    20000     20000    80000
S/T Local TA                  1     1    1    1    4          3600000         2000      2000     2000      2000      8000
Sub-Total                                                                     22000     22000    22000     22000     88000
N  Formation
ACN JEC                      30    60   100  150  340          350000         5833     11667    19444      29167    66111
IEC                          -     -    -    -       -             -         4278      3889      7583      11472    27222
ACN Nutrition                -     -     -    -      -             -          5833      5833     14583     14583    40833
Nutritfon                    -    -      -    -      -             -         4278      3889      7583      11472    27222



PCN Booklet                     -        -    -      -            -          2500         0         0         0      2500
Training Abroad                             -       -             -         20000         0         0         0    20000
Sub-Total                                                                    42722    25278      49194     66694    183889
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                             721783   635343    891544   1034422  3283093
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Veh. Oper. & Maint
FUD                          -    -    -      -    -              -          8800      8800      8800      8800    35200
Sedan                        -    -    -    -    -                -          3000      3000      3000      3000     12000
Motorcylces                  -     -    -    -    -               -          6000    12000      20000     30000    68000
Sub-Total                                                                    17800    23800      31800     41800    115200
B. Oper. Costs (Inct. rent)       12   12   12   12   48          2700000         18000    18000     18000     18000    72000
C. Travel Allowances              -     -     -    -      -             -         9022      9022      9022      9022    36089
D. Support Personel               -           -    -    -               -         15600    15600     15600     15600    62400
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                               60422    66422      74422     84422   285689
= == == == ====== mz= = = == == == == = == = === = = _== = === == = ==  v
Total                                                                           782206   701766   965967   1118844  3568782
== _ == ==.= === = = == = = = == = = = == = = = ========= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
<1> 1 person for 3 mos. 1st 3 yrs.
<2> 100 children/for. &500 for. July-November
1/28/1993 9:51
-A
U'
K>



MADAGASCAR
Food Security l Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 12. PCN Tana
Detailed Cost Table
FMG
ouantity                  Unit Cost                       Base Costs in SUJS
nazzzzzzzzsz= sss-----sss sss=              =3=3=3=====   ==   = =  =   = =S
94     95      96     97  TotaL          94-97            94         95         96        97      TotaL
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment
Furniture                           5     10      35     50    100        3000000          8333      16667      58333     83333    166667
Weights & Measures epn.             5     10      35      50    100        2000000          5556     11111      38889     55556    111111
Cooking utensils                    5     10      35      50    100         540000          1500      3000      10500      15000     30000
Computer Equipment                  2      0       0       0      2       18000000        20000          0          0          0     20000
Sub-Total                                                                                  35389      30775    107722    153889    327775
B. Infrstructure Rehabit.                5      10     35      50    100        7200000         20000      40000    140000    200000    400000
C. Personrel
Coordinaotr                        12     12      12      12     48        2399400         15996     15996      15996      15996     63984
IEC Specialist                     12     12      12     12      48        999000          6660       6660       6660      6660      26640
Nutritionist                       12     12      12      12     48         999000          6660      6660       6660       6660     26640
Sub-Total                                                                                   29316     29316      29316      29316    117264                         o
0. Food Transport s50  UFP               -      -       -      -       -              -          8000      17000     30000      54000    109000
E. Vehicles
FWD                                 1      0       0       0      1      54000000         30000          0          0          0     30000
Motorcycles                         4      4       4       4     16        1800000          4000      4000       4000       4000     16000
Bicycles                            5      10     35      50    100         540000          1500      3000      10500      15000     30000
Sub-Total                                                                                   35500       7000     14500      19000     76000
F. Training
Trainers <>                       800    800    800    800   3200            50000         22222     22222      22222      22222     88889
ACN 2Q                           1260   1260   1260   1260   5040            50000         35000     35000      35000      35000    140000
PCNi Book                           1      0       0       0      1        9000000          5000          0         0          0      5000
Sub-Total                                                                                   62222     57222'    57222       57222    233889
G. Food                                     -       -      -       -                 -          26733      61206    123294    239400    450633
H Training Abroad
Nutrition Speclalist                1      0       0       0      1       18000000         10000          0         0          0     10000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            227160    242522    502055    752827   1724564
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Expenses
FWD                                -      -       -       -      -              -          12000     12000      12000      12000     48000
Notorcycles                        -       -      -       -      -              -           1200       2400      3600       4800      12000
Cosputer Maintenance               -       -      -       -      -              -           4000      4000       4000       4000      16000
Other transport                     5      10     35      50    100        2000000          5556      11111     38889      55556    111111
Offtce S277pies                                                                             5000       5011      5000       506      20000
Sub-Total                                                           ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2776  34511  63489  81356    207111



Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                         27756       34511       63489       81356    207111
======z=== =======  u=z====== ==.-.=.s
Total                                                                                                    254916      277033      565544      834183   1931675
Wss88sssstss==s--w=w=----=S.=====s==was=s===ta====st===as================t========s========                                                  ======l-ss=----s-
<1> 190 trainers x 3 sessions x 7 days *3990 days a 50000 FMG/day
Q> 450 ACN x 2 sesslons x 7 days  u 6300 days 2 50000 FMG/day
1/28/1993 9:51
l4



MADAGASCAR
Food Security & Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 13. Iodine
Detailed Cost Table
FMG
Quantity      Unit Cost                    Base Costs in SUS
94-97 Total        94-97          94        95        96       97    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Salt lodization Equipment
Morondav                       -                  -        20000         0        0         0    20000
Tulear                        -      -            -        70000         0        0    20000    90000
TAF                            -     -            -        20000         0        0         0    20000
Diego                          -     -            -        20000         0        0         0    20000
Sub-Total                                                  130000         0        0    20000   150000
B. Training of technician           -     -            -         10000        0         0        0    10000                                                   I
C. Iodate K103                      -                  -        55000    55000    55000    55000   220000
D. Iodated oil                      -     -                     107600        0   107600         0   215200
E. IEC                              -     -            -          2000     2000      2000        0      6000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                             304600    57000   164600    75000   601200
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salt iodiz. Equipm. Maint                                                                                                                                            00
Morondav                       -     -            -         4000      4000     4000      4000    16000
Tulear                         -     -            -        14000    14000    14000    18000    60000
TAF                            -     -            -         4000      4000     4000      4000    16000
Diego                          -     -            -         4000      4000     4000      4000    16000
Sib-Total                                                   26000    26000    26000    30000   108000
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                               26000    26000    26000    30000   108000
Total                                                          330600    83000   190600   105000   709200
1/28/1993 9:51



MADAGASCAR
Food Security & Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 21. Social Fund
Detailed Cost Tabte
FNG
Quantity                 Unit Cost                         Base Costs in SUS
94    95    96    97 Total            94-97             94         95          96         97       Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Intl. Short-term TA
Long-term TA (2)               2      2     0     0      4      216000000         240000      240000           0          0      480000
Mid-term                       0      0     2      0     2       32400000              0           0      36000           0       36000
Final Evaluation               0      0     0     2      2       32400000              0           0           0      36000       36000
honitoring and EvaL.            1     1     2      0     4       32400000          18000       18000      36000           0       72000
Technical Support              1      1     0     0      2       32400000          18000       18000           0          0       36000
Sub-Total                                                                          276000      276000       72000      36000      660000
B. Local Short-term TA
Adhin. fin. & Comp. Spec.      3      3     0      0     6        3600000           6000        6000           0          0       12000
Monitoring S Evatuation        4      4     4      4    16        3600000           8000        8000        8000       8000       32000
Private Sector Support         2      2     0      0     3        3600000           3000        3000           0          0        6000
Support to Inc. gen. act.      2      2     0      0     3        3600000           3000        3000           0          0        6000
Sub-Total                                                                           20000       20000        8000       8000       56000
C. Social Fund Projects
Private Sector Support         -     -     -      -     -               -         546000      398000      424000     245000    1613000
Infrastructure Projects       -      -     -     -      -               -         959000    1102000    1267000    1463000    4791000
Inc. generating projects      -      -     -     -      -               -         315000      364000     416000      479000    1574000
Sub-Total                                                                         1820000    1864000    2107000    2187000    7978000
D. Personnet Direction Natl.
Executive director            12    12    12    12    48          3000000          20000       20000       20000      20000       80000
Responsable de division       36    36    36    36   144           1000000         20000       20000       20000      20000       80000
Accountant                     12    12    12    12    48           400000           2667       2667        2667       2667       10667
Cofputer Speciatist            12    12    12    12    48          400000           2667        2667        2667       2667       10667
Sub-Total                                                                           45333       45333       45333      45333      181333
E. Personnet Tana Region
Regional Director              12    12    12    12    48         2000000           13333      13333       13333      13333       53333
Resp. de service (3)          36    36    36    36   144           1000000          20000      20000       20000      20000       80000
Promotion Dept. Assistant    12    12    12    12    48             800000           5333       5333        5333       5333       21333
Coord. de Realisations 3      24    36    36    36   132           800000           10667      16000       16000      16000       58667
Accountant                     12    12    12    12    48           400000           2667       2667        2667       2667       10667
Computer Speciatist            12    12    12    12    48          400000           2667        2667        2667       2667       10667
Sub-Total                                                                           54667       60000       60000      60000      234667
F. Personnel Tulear Region
Regional Director              12    12    12    12    48         2000000           13333      13333       13333      13333       53333
Resp. de services (3)         36    36    36    36   144           1000000          20000      20000       20000      20000       80000
Asst. Service Promotion        12    12    12    12    48          800000           5333        5333        5333       5333       21333
Coord. Travaux (3)            24    36    36    36   132            800000          10667      16000       16000      16000       58667
Accountant                     12    12    12    12    48           400000           2667       2667        2667       2667       10667
Computer Specialist           12    12    12    12    48            400000           2667       2667        2667       2667       10667
Sub-Total                                                                            54667      60000       60000      60000      234667
G. Equlpment Central level



Computers (3)                   3     0     0      0     3        1B000000         30000           0           0          0       30000
Photocopier                     1     0     0      0     1        18000000          10000          0           0          0       10000
Machine a relure                1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0        3000
Fax                             1     0     0      0     1        5400000           3000           0           0          0        3000
Telephone System                1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0       3000
Sub-Total                                                                           49000           0           0          0       49000
H. Equipment Tana
Coenpjters (5)                  5     0     0      0     5        18000000         50000           0           0          0       50000
Machine a reliure               1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0        3000
Fax                             1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0        3000
Audiovisual Eqpm.               1     0     0      0     1         9000000          5000           0           0           0       5000
office Furniture               14     0     0      0    14          900000           7000          0           0           0       7000
Telephone System                1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0        3000
Sub-Total                                                                           71000           0           0           0      71000
1. Equipment Tulear
Computers                       5     0     0      0     5        18000000         50000           0           0          0       50000
Machine a reliure               1     0     0      0     1         5400000           3000          0           0           0       3000
Fax                             1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0        3000
Audiovisual Equipment           1     0     0      0     1         9000000           5000          0           0          0        5000
office Furniture               14     0     0      0    14          900000           7000          0           0           0       7000
Telephone System                1     0     0      0     1         5400000          3000           0           0          0        3000                 1
Sub-Total                                                                           71000           0           0           0      71000
J. Vehicles Central
FWD               ,1                 0     0      0     1        54000000         30000           0           0          0       30000
Sedan                           1     0     0      0     1        32400000          18000          0           0           0      18000
Sub-Total                                                                           48000           0           0           0      48000
K. Vehicles Tans Region                                                                                                                                                 c
Four wheel drive (4)           4      0     0      0     4        54000000        120000           0           0          0      120000                           O
L. Vehicles Tulear region
Four-wheel drive (4)           4      0     0      0     4       54000000         120000           0           0           0     120000
M. Training
Central level                        -      -     -                     -            5000       5000        5000       5000       20000
Tanm                           -     -     -      -     -               -           10000      10000       10000       10000      40000
Tulear                            -     -      -        -               -           10000      10000       10000       10000      40000
Sub-Total                                                                            25000      25000       25000      25000      100000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                    2774667    2350333    237M333    2421333    9923667
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs Central
Computer Maintenance                 -     -      -     -               -            6000       6000        6000        6000      24000
FWD Maintenance               -      -     -      -     -               -           6000        6000        6000       6000       24000
Sedan Naintenance                    -     -      -     -               -           3600        3600        3600       3600       14400
Rent                           12    12    12    12    48          1000000          6667        6667        6667       6667       26667
Utilities                      12    12    12    12    48          1000000           6667       6667        6667        6667      26667
Office SWpplies                 1     1      1     1     4        18000000          10000      10000       10000       10000      40000
Per dlems                      12    12    12    12    48          1900000          12667      12667       12667       12667      50667
Secretaries                   24    24    24    24    96            250000           3333       3333        3333       3333       13333
Drivers                        24    24    24    24    96           150000           2000       2000        2000        2000       8000
Guards                        24    24    24    24    96            100000           1333       1333        1333        1333       5333
Sub-Total                                                                            58267      58267       58267       58267     233067
B. Operating Costs Tana
FWD                           -      -     -      -     -               -          30000       30000       30000      30000      120000
Computer Maintenance           -     -     -      -     -               -           10000      10000       10000       10000      40000
Rent                           12    12    12    12    48          1000000           6667       6667        6667        6667      26667



Utilities                     12    12    12    12    48          900000           6000       6000        6000       6000       24000
Office SWp lies                1     1      1     1    4        12600000           7000        7000       7000       7000       28000
Per diems                     12    12    12    12   48          2700000          18000      18000       18000      18000       72000
Secretaries (2)               24    24    24    24    96          250000           3333       3333        3333       3333       13333
Drivers (2)                   24    24    24    24    96          150000           2000       2000        2000       2000        8000
Guards                        24    24    24    24    96          100000           1333       1333        1333       1333        5333
Sub-Total                                                                          84333      84333       84333      84333      337333
C. Operating Costs Tulear
Conputer Maintenance                -     -      -     -               -          10000      10000       10000      10000       40000
Vehicle Maintenance              -         -     -     -               -          24000      24000       24000      24000       96000
Rent                          12    12    12    12    48          800000           5333       5333        5333       5333       21333
Utilities                     12    12    12    12    48          900000           6000       6000        6000       6000       24000
Office Supplies                1     1      1     1     4       12600000           7000       7000        7000       7000       28000
Per diem                      12    12    12    12   48          4000000          26667      26667       26667      26667      106667
Secretaries (2)               24    24    24    24    96          250000           3333       3333        3333       3333       13333
Drivers (2)                   24    24    24    24    96           150000          2000       2000        2000       2000        8000
Guards (2)                    24    24    24    24    96          100000           1333        1333       1333       1333        5333
Sub-Total                                                                          85667      85667       85667      85667      342667
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                    228267      228267     228267      228267     913067
=Xss==.=s assussuazuz .s=:==    .3==Uun *nusu.... 
Total                                                                                3002933    2578600    2605600    2649600   10836733
1/28/1993  9:52
co



MADAGASCAR
Food Security & Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 30. Food for Work
Detailed Cost Table
FMG
Quantity                Unit Cost                       Base Costs in SUS
94    95    96    97 Total           94-97            94        95         96        97      Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. NMterials (Hand Tools)UFP        -     -      -     -      -              -        136150    145230    181500    217900    680780
B. Bureau d'Etudes/ONG              -     -      -     -                              300000    300000    300000    300000   1200000
C. Food
HIMO                           -     -     -      -     -              -        550900    587600    734500    881500   2754500
Centers                        -     -                                          368111    368111    368111    368111   1472444
Sub-Total                                                                        9190;1    955711   1102611   1249611   4226944
D. Training                         -     -      -     -      -             -          42000     42000      42000     42000    168000
E. Equlpment Bureau d'etudes
Vehicles                        2     0     0      0     2       36000000         40000         0.         0         0      40000
Motorcycles                    10     0     0      0    10        3960000         22000         0          0         0      22000
Coqmpters                       5     0     0      0     5       18000000        50000          0          0         0      50000
Photocopier                     1     0     0      0     1       12600000          7000         0          0         0       7000
Office Furniture               -     -      -     -     -              -          10000         0          0         0      10000
Sub-Total                                                                         129000         0          0         0    129000
F. Logistics
Storage                        -     -     -      -     -              -         30000      30000     30000      30000    120000
ITSH Social Centers           -      -     -      -     -              -         56000      56000     56000      56000    224000
ITSH HIMO 50% WFP                    -        -         -              -         81000      86400    108000    129600    405000
Sub-Total                                                                         167000    172400    194000    215600    749000
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                  1693161   1615341   1820111   202511;;    7153724
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Veh. Oper. I Maint.
Vehicles                       -                                                  16000     16000      16000     16000      64000
Notorcycles                    -           -                                       8800      8800       8800      8800      35200
Suib-Total                                                                         24800     24800      24800     24800      99200
Total RECUORRENT COSTS                                                                    24800     24800      24800      24800     99200
Total                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==;======; ==~====;= ZZNZ==~=j Z==z=Z=Z= Z5====Zz=
Total                                                                                1717961   1640141   1844911   2049911   7252924
1/28/1993 9:52



MADAGASCAR
Food Security L Nutrition Project
Project Cost Estimates
Table 40. IEC
Detailed Cost Table
FMG
Quantity                 Unit Cost                       Base Costs in SUS
94    95    96    97 Total            94-97           94         95         96        97     Totat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Technicat Assistance
S-T Intl.                     1      1     1     0      3       32400000         18000      18000     18000          0     54000
Food Security Strategy       -      -     -     -      -               -        100000    1OOOO           0          0    200000
Local IEC SpecIalist         36    36    36    36   144          1098000         21960      21960     21960      21960     87840
ST Locat TA                   2      2     2     2      8        3600000          4000       4000      4000       4000     16000
Sub-Total                                                                        143960    143960      43960      25960    357840
B. JEC Equipment
Training Haterials             1     0     0     0      1       10800000          6000          0         0          0      6000
Moblte video camera            1     0     0      0     1       18000000         10000          0          0         0     10000
Movie equipment                1     0     0      0     1        9000000          5000          0          0         0      5000
Accoustic eqpm.  ,             1     0     0      0     1        18000000        10000          0          0         0      10000
Computers (3)                 3      0     0     0      3        18000000        30000          0          0         0     30000
Furniture                     1      0     0     0      1         900000           500          0         0          0       500
Sub-Total                                                                         61500          0          0         0     61500
C. Materials/surveys
Mobile exposition              1     0     1      0     2       36000000         20000          0     20000          0     40000
Musical groups                0      1     0      1     2       36000000             0      20000          0     20000     40000
Reinf. of rurat radios         1     1     0      0     2       180000000       100000    100000           0         0    200000
CAP Survey                    0      0     0      1     1       54000000             0          0          0     30000     30000
Beneficiary Assesnent         0      1     0      1     2       54000000             0      30000          0     30000     60000
Sub-Total                                                                        120000    150000      20000      80000t  370000
D. Operationat Research
Workshops                      1     1     1      1     4         7200000         4000       4000      4000       4000   . 16000
Additional surveys             1     0     0      0     1        18000000        10000          0          0         0      10000
Production of materials        1     1     1      1     4        5400000          3000       3000      3000       3000      12000
Sub-Total                                                                         17000       7000      7000       7000     38000
E. Vehicles                         2     0     0      0     2        54000000         60000         0          0          0     60000
F. Training
Local training               -         -     -         -               -          4200       4200          0         0      8400
Training abroad CESAO         3      0     0     0      3        18000000        30000          0          0         0     30000
Sub-Total                                                                         34200       4200          0         0     38400
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                   436660    305160      70960    112960    925740
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Cm iputer Maintenance                     -     -         -              -           6000      6u!'0      6000       6000     24000
S. Vehicle Maintenance             -     -      -     -     -               -          12000     12000      12000      12000     48000
C. IEC Eqpm. Maintenance            i     1      1     1     4        18000000         10000     10000      10000      10000     40000
0. Audio visual Eqpm. Maint                                                 -          10000     10000      10000      10000     40000
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                     38000     38000      38000      38000    152000



=5n===Sn=  S=====lSU  ==z====sf  rf======t   SSSSS.USU
Total                                                                                              474660      343160       108960      150960    10740
1/2f/1993  9:52
I0



- 85 -                                             ANNEX X
ANNEX X: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
IDA FY/QUARTER END                         DISULRSEMENT                     ACLXUUTED                   X
DURIMCG QUARTERS                  DISIURSENENTS
FY94
March 31, 1994                                             2.5                              2.5                   12
June 30, 1994                                              0.9                              3.4                   4
FY95
September 30, 1994                                         1.4                              4.8                   7
December 31, 1994                                          1.4                              6.2                    7
March 31, 1995                                             1.4                              7.6                   7
June 30, 1995                                              1.4                              9.0                   7
FY96
September 30, 1995                                         1.2                             10.2                   6
December 31, 1995                                          1.2                             11.4                    6
March 31, 1996                                             1.1                             12.5                    5
June 30, 1996                                              1.1                             13.6                   5
FY97
September 30, 1996                                         1.3                             14.9                   6
December 31, 1996                                          1.3                             16.2                    6
March 31, 1997                                             1.2                             17.4                   6
June 30, 1997                                              1.2                             18.6                   6
FY98
September 30, 1997                                         1.0                             19.6                   5
December 31, 1997                                          0.8                             20.4                   4
March 31, 1998                                             0.6                             21.0                   3
June 30, 1998                                              0.3                             21.3                    1



- 86 -                                    ANNEX XI
ANNEX XI: SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision will be carried out according to the supervision plan below.  The
expected targets to monitor are presented in the main-text in Table 3.1. In addition to those
numerical targets supervision missions should examine the following:
a.      Coordination between the SECALINE project and the FID  i.e. FID  should be
allowed to operate independently of the project though it should make a special effort
to finance qualifying proposals for income generating activities coming from
communities participating in the community nutrition program to enhance the synergy
between nutrition activities and income generating activities.
b.      Perfomance of the Regional Coordinators and the National Coordinator.
c.      Performance of the Executive Director and the Regional Directors of FID.
d.      Effectiveness of the IEC program in communicating to the beneficiary population.
e.      Integration of the results of the beneficiary assessment surveys into day-to-day p roject
execution.
2.              The targets in the main text Table 3.1 are tentative as the project, particularly FID,
is demand driven and should respond to beneficiary requests. Supervision missions can still monitor
that FID follows its manual of procedures.  Key variables to monitor for each component are in
Annex VII (Monitoring).
Missions' Objectives                    Missions' Members             Period
Pre-effectiveness
. Review compliance with conditions of credit     Task Manager                  July 93
effectiveness.                                     Implementation Specialist
Review bidding documents
Finalize social fund modalities
. Review work plans for 1st year of project
impleimentation.
Proiect launch
. Working sessions with the BCP, social fund,     Task Manager                  January 94
community nutrition and NGOs                       Implementation Specialist
Nutrition Specialist
Project launch seminar.                          IEC Specialist



- 87 -                                      ANNEX XI
Ist Supervision Mission
Assess start-up progress for all components.        Task Manager                   June 94
Financial Analyst
. Assess financial management/accounting
system/disbursement
2nd Supervision Mission
. In-depth review of social fund and community nutrition    Task Manager            December 94
components                                           Nutrition Specialist
3rd Supervision Mission
. Review one year implementation performance         Task Manager                   June 95
Financial Analyst
. Donor coordination
Nlid-term Implementation Review
. Review of project progress with government and     Task Manager                   December 95
donors                                               Economist
Food Security Specialist
Nutrition Specialist
Financial Analyst
4th Supervision Mission
. Field trip                                         Food Security Specialist       June 96
Nutrition Specialist
5th Supervision Mission
. Review of the implementation of the mid-tern review  Task Manager                 December 96
recommendations.                                     Implementation Specialist
6th Supervision Mission
. Assess project impact at aU levels                 Social Sector Specialist       June 97
Task Manager
. Pre-identification of the next phase of the project  Economists
7th Supervision Mission
. Overal assessment of project performance           Task Manager                   December 97
. FoUow-up on identification of the second           Financial Analyst
phase of the project                                 Implementation Specialis
8th Supervision Mission
. Preparation of second phase of project             Task Manager                   June 98
Economist
Social Sector Specialist



- 88 -                             Annex Xn
ANNEX XII: LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1. General
1.1    Madagascar : Towards a Food Security Strategy, AF3PH, 1990
1.2    Decree No. 92-612 of June 5, 1992 approved by the Council of Ministers and signed
by the Prime Minister setting up the project structure.
1.3    Decree No. 92-613 of June 5, 1992 approved by the Council of Ministers and signed
by the Prime Minister nominating the National Coordinator.
1.4    Decree No. 93-043 of January 27, 1993 modifying Decree No. 92-612.
1.5    Decree No. 93-044 of January 27, 1993 recognizing FID as a public service
association.
1.6    Mise en place d 'un Systeme d 'Infornation Alimentaire et Alerte Rapide September,
1989 FAO Madagascar
1.7   Production et Commnercialisation Agricole: Contribution a la Securite Alimentaire
Draft Report by Commission II on Food Security Strategy, Antananarivo,
Madagascar June 1991
1.8   Education Nutritionnelle et Sensibiisation de la Population Report by Commission
V on Food Security Strategy, Antananarivo, Madagascar, June 1991
1.9   Reflexion sur I'Amerlioration de l'Alimentation Report by Commission VI on Food
Security Strategy, Antananarivo, Madagascar, June, 1991
1.10  Developpement des Institutions Chargees de I 'Amelioration de la Securite Alimentaire
et de la Nutrition en Republique Democratique de Madagascar by Peter Bachrach,
May 1991
1.11   Etude Regionale sur la Securite Alimentaire au Niveau des Menages et la Nutrition -
Cas de Madagascar: Rapport de Madagascar by C6cile Ramanintrera, Beatrice
Gakuba and Henri-Auguste Randrianiriana
2. Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement(FID)
2.1   Food Security and Nutrition Project: Implementation Manual for FID, World Bank,
February, 1993
2.2   Etudes Preparatoire pour le lancement du'n Fonds d'Investissements pour le
Developpement, International Labor Office, Geneva, December 1992



- 89 -                             Annex XII
2.3   The World Bank. Community Organizations and SuDportive NGOs in Madagascar,
EXTIE, World Bank, February 1991
2.4   Towards a Decentralized Social Fund, AF3PH, 1991
2.5   Place du Credit pour la Femine dans le Developpement by Emilienne Raparson,
Antananarivo, Madagascar, June 1991.
3. Food for Work
3.1   Etude de Faisabilitte d'un Programme d'Assainisssement Urbain Utilisant la
Methodologie 'Vivres Contre Travail' OSIPD/IMES, Antananarivo, Madagascar,
Octobre, 1991
3.2   Projet Madagascar 4553: Appui au Projet Securite Alimentaire et Nutrition World
Food Program, Rome, October,1992
4. Nutrition
4.1   Programme Communautaire Nutritionl Developpement: Rapport pour la Banque
Mondiale by Marlena Bouche, Consultant, Antananarivo, August, 1991
4.2   Rapport Preliminaire: Project de Securite Alimentaire et de nutrition elargie dans la
Fairtany de Toliary by the SECALINE Project Preparation Unit in Toliary,
December 1991
4.3   Propositions sur l'education nutritionnelle dans k projet SECALJNE: Rapport de
Mission by Michel Andrien, CERES, University of Liege, Belgium, August, 1991
4.4   Enquete Nutritionnelles Region Sud de l'Androy Madagascar: Medecins Sans
Frontieres by Soledad Vasquez, Antananarivo, June 1992
4.5   Lutte Contre les Troubles Dus aux Carences en lode : Plan d'Actions 1993-1999,
UNICEF/Ministry of Health, October, 1992
5. IEC
5.1   La Strategie d 'Information-Education-Commzunicationdu ProjetSECALINE by Michel
Andrien, Consultant, Projet SECALINE, Antananarivo, October 1992
5.2   Rapport de Consultant: Volet Information, Education, Communication - Projet de
Securite Alimentaire et Nutritionnelle Elargie (SECAUNE), by Michele Lioy,
Academy for Educational Development, Washington, May 1991






IBRD 20035R
12"                                                                                     W                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12--
;  Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                        4-
Povnd road.                                                           
Rt., Ogt oueondeo........  
_   All-lnroher roods
Rout., occessibs *n tout Jo,,O,                                            NOSY-iE   -            Amblob.
-. _      Nonp."rfion.nt roods                                                         4-             4                Volumorirro
Rou, s,o,nr-e,                                                               Hl-lr I       _.-
Railrood.                                                                               4-'
Cheo., of I,                                                                          ,, Ambor.v t
Riyr's
4 f Ai,  *ts rgrSes                                                              J   2           ANTSIRANANA
fi Notinol caPit.1/ 
-    faritony(prorince) capitals                                        Anoldoo                    0+         t
Ch/40V Ae' roitar,y                                                   An tohuhI                                           nt :4 Andopo
_.________ aFrit6ary boondori..                                                                                    A)rtlho
14.,tmwi dis Fo ,,y                                               t                  +'Befordr,ono    r-
_ l -trni-Inal bound.r..                                                                9            ".
limat, om . Etot,                    Mahajanga  4.                        -                       I       40 M     nt".Ia
Mtthoictngetk                     RJnPor            \      )         (
Ab b-             (t          %_B.r    IMondritoro i  
M A H A J AN  G A 
Si.iornpr  MAHAJANG.-W.                                                                 ONVH
Ar    TOAMASINA 0
,A. Ambodftoioro
[Y I I                                                    Andr,ororenr   /i                 Fonhooriro At.inanaon
I                *1'F                                AItab  4  1
Mci.twone'   M-f -b                                                        mbotondra.  a
7' r            Aniotob+   Ar1o-orob.                            Toomasino
Anft.t             ANTANANARIV
rroI.jvo                              Alodrtm                          t
0.L.4-                                         A,o,rt,,
\     '    T.lroopjonroddddy                         nlaV> an       b 00
<,                       t_,~~~. .J      '%  Soovrnondrono  A> ndrsmos,ro                        v'omdr
.                     ~~~~~~/ M,ordr,vo,oA              F   sh't    gAbthpy  Aro,rbo onA o
t:l         ~~B.Io.Turib,h,no(F z       4-                   ort,           Amblolr,p
,, vA,-,-    o    
'\0   r        AearOb>^9e 4-'         7'               Moh-aoro
r1xAnlsr             \          M6.'oIorbo   .                                                  ?-
Morondrdo y otso b oMol,ombond _ orr0r           \ ;             nortroo  '
5\                                           -         mbolFrondrohoro         Ambositra          'No.rVoriko
T O      L I A R Y                                 Aboh-oho.oo  4
M    b            -d-                 0 Mo_of --                  -            lorod,o       n    nry
9   Mtromb ~Tonondovo                    Beofoo2                                I
4-                  Bar;robo~~~~~~FI   NA  #      Arrooo
0Ab,o,'      FIANARN   SOA                0Ikorgo
,   /          ~~~~~oAnk.-ob.  I,*i
v   4-    j           Ikoy,              h.rabkoro
/              -   4         Ivohie         VoI.pe.no       KILOMETERS 0      SO      100    ISO    200
- (po                                 V-dr-O .F.-'f..g.                    MILES 0           50          I0
/;.                        l>~~~~Be;t k             /
Tolioir                                                                     ng.dr 4  Vordoinrofon
ttg., oky - Sod           \        0Mrdongy    V          o             ZOAL   TANZANIA
KB.W
VItO~~ ~ ~ 0000oa,c.rro                             rokaro      '>      / '\                         24-                    - }      _  coMoIos
Tmh.  1,a.,o I0.5000by0                        B.k.IyO                           ,MiJ MLAWI
erft Kt_d   I-# ..                                                                                                   ZAMBIA  Mooont.no  -i   -\
r_ z hr rhr ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOOt e-                                                                     IC I
rd.. n  .a * '   O o'o
Md.d 0, maNoo,.O                                                                                                       1
std. h                                     d--- o                                                                   /           1 t
bCr^ W- shh-twIl     1   Amponiny      -\        \ZIMBABWEs ,0                                                                       Ant-r-oorP.?
0.w     W   t   'f                                           Arrboolory~
ontlw .1 Th. Nbw B.* r   S.dS dbr                                      -P                                                                    MADAGASCAR
N.t~F*CO ca-.                                     ?                               Tolagnaro n
N* _Or   t t  r w N.                                    .  -       Anboorob.                                         .       \          ,
'trCA SAZILAND
JUNE 1 990



