Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19282
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CREDIT 2474-MAG
May 17, 1999
Human Development IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Malagasy Franc (FMG)
(Period average)
1989: US$ 1.00 = FMG 1603          1994: US$ 1.00 = FMG 3067
1990: US$ 1.00 = FMG 1494          1995: US$ 1.00 = FMG 4266
1991: US$ 1.00 = FMG 1835          1996: US$ 1.00 = FMG 4061
1992: US$ 1.00 = FMG 1864          1997: US$ 1.00 = FMG S091
1993: US$ 1.00 = FMG 1914          1998: US$ 1.00 = FMG 5441
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACN                 Community nutdtion Worker (Agent Communautaire de Nutrition)
BPS                 SECALINE Project Office (Bureau d'execution du Projet SECALI.NE)
CICS                Interministerial Coordination Committee (Comite Interministeriel de
Coordination du Projet SECALINE)
CRT                 Nutrition Rehabilitation Center (Centre de Rehabilitation Therapeutique)
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
EMSAP/ PASAGE    Economic Management and Social Action Project (Projet des Actions Sociales et
Appui a la Gesfion Economique)
EWS                 Early Warming System (Systeme d'Alerte Precoce)
FARITANY            Province (groups about 20 fivondrononana)
FID                 Social Fund (Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement)
FIRAISANA           Local Government Grouping of Villages orNeighborhoods
FIVONDRONANA    District (includes several Fraisana)
FOKONTANY           Village or Neighborhood
IDA                 International Development Association
IEC                 Information, Education and Comnunmication (Informafion, Education et
Communications)
IDD/TDCI            Iodine Deficiency Disorders (Troubles Das aux Carences en Iode)
ILO/BIT             Intemational Labor Organization/Bureau International du Travail
KAP                 Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
NGO                 Non Govenmnental Organization (Organisation Non Gouvernementale)
PCN                 Community Nutrition Program (Programme Communautaire de Nutrition)
PNSAN               National Food Security and Nutrition Monitoring System (Programme ANafional
de Surveillance Alimentaire et Nutritionelle)
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SECALINE            Food Security and Nutrition Project (Securite Alimentaire et Nutrition Elargie)
UNICEF              United Nations Intemational Children Emergency Fund
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
WFP/PAM             World Food Program (Programme Alimentaire Mondia)
Vice-President: Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Mr. Michael Sanis
Sector Manager: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Task Manager: Ms. Eileen Murray



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRMTION PROJECT
CREDIT 2474-MAG
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.                                                                               i
Project Objectives ................................................
Implementation Experience and Results ...............................................ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned ................................................
1. PROJECT IPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENl.._...._...
Project Objectives . . . .
Achievement of Project Objectives .   ..............................................       .3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The project .......................................... . . 4
Project Sustainability ................................................7
Bank Performance .................................................
Borrower Performance . . . . .
Assessment of Outcome ................................................ .
Future Operation ................................................                         13
Key Lessons Learned ................... ..                            .                   l.4
2.   STATISTICAL            EX............... .....................-_                .16
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...............................................................  l
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS .19
TABLE 3: PROJECT T        ABLE .............................................................. 2)
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ........................... 20
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................... 21
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..............................................................     23
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT............................................................... 2.4
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS ...............................................................  27
TABLE 9: PROJECT FINANCING ..............................................................       28
TABLE 10: ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFITS ..............................................................  28
TABLE 11: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS IN THE CREDIT AGREEMENT ..................................... 29
TABLE 12: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS IN THE PROJECT AGREEMENT .................................. 35
TABLE 13: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ......................................... 39-
TABLE 14: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..............................................................  39
TABLE 15: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..............................................................  40
Annex A: Aide-memoire de la mission SECALIE de la Banque mondiale
Annex B: Borrower assessment of Project Implementation
Annex C: Map No IBRD 20035R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CREDIT 2474-MAG
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report OCR) for the Food Security and
Nutrition Project in Madagascar, for which a Credit (2474-MAG) in the amount of SDR15.5
million(US$21.3 million equivalent) was approved on March 18, 1993, signed on April 9,
1993, and made effective on July 29, 1993. The Credit aimed at assisting the Government to
reduce food insecurity and malnutrition in the provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998, or five months behind schedule. An
amount of SDR 3,673,673 (US$ 4,981,684 equivalent) was canceled on May 14, 1999. The
last disbursement took place on November 13, 1999. In addition to the government
counterpart funding and to the beneficiary contribution (about five and four percent;
respectively, of total project costs excluding taxes and duties), the project was to be
cofmanced by the World Food Program (WFP), UNICEF and Japan.
The outcome of the project is satisfactory overall. The success of the project is due in
large part to its flexibility and adaptability, but the real people behind the success are the
Malagasy who worked to make it go and the poor for whom it was designed.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Paul Geli (Consultant) and Ms. Nathalie Lopez-Diouf
(Team Assistant). It was reviewed by Ms. Eileen Murray (Task Manager for the project -
AFTH4) and Mr. Arvil Van Adams (Sector Manager, AFTH4). Preparation of this ICR was
started during the Bank's final supervision mission in August 1998. It is based on materials
in the project file, and on the interviews of people who have been associated with the project
during implementation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing
views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (Annex A), by preparing its own evaluation of
the project's execution (Annex B) and by commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURI1TY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2474-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    At the time the project was processed and the credit made, Madagascar was
among the least developed countries in the world. Despite Madagascar's significant
development potential, its social conditions were, and continue to be below sub-Saharan
African standards. To remedy that situation and to help the poorer segments of the
population during the period of adjustment which started in 1985, the Bank financed
sectoral operations in education and health, as well as an Economic Management and
Social Action Project (EMSAP/PASAGE) which included pilot targeted programs to
reduce food insecurity among the poor. The experience of those pilot programs was
taken into account in the design of the project.
Project Objectives.
2.    The project's objective was to reduce food insecurity and malnutrition in
Madagascar's two most food-insecure provinces (which are Antananarivo and Toliary)
through income generating projects and targeted nutrition programs. The project
objectives were not modified during project implementation.
3.    To help achieve the above objectives, the project consisted of three components:
(a) Income Generating Activities to be carried out through (i) the Fonds d'Intervention
pour le Developpement (FID), a social fund financing labor intensive works and other
income generation activities and (ii) a Food for Work Program targeted to the urban poor
in Greater Antananarivo; (b) Nutrition Interventions including (i) a Community nutrition
Program in the provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary working through mother groups
organized by a community nutrition agent supported by NGOs to provide nutrition
education, arrange supplemental feeding and refer severe cases of malnutrition to
nutrition rehabilitation centers operating under medical supervision and (ii) a national
Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program; and (c) Institutional Strengthening
to support the development and execution of an Information, Education and



Evaluation Summary                                                  Page ii
Communication (IEC) program and support the development of a National Food Security
Strategy for the long term.
4.    The Food Security and Nutrition Project was to be implemented under the overall
guidance of a National Coordinator assisted by the SECALINE Project Office (Bureau
d'Execution du Projet SECALINE - BPS) with specific arrangements depending on the
component and sub-component. The BPS' role was to coordinate, support and monitor
implementation, including project financial management, accounting and auditing, but
with the exception of FID which had been set up as a non-profit association operating
independently. The total project cost estimate was US$32.4 million equivalent, and the
project was expected to be completed by January 31, 1998 and the credit closed on July
31, 1998.
5.  In addition to the standard clauses for counterpart funds, procurement and audit,
covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Agreement and a
supplemental letter to the DCA were expected to promote the achievement of project
objectives. Those covenants and letter dealt with project management and execution, and
performance and monitoring indicators.
6.    The formulation of the project's objective was both too broad and too narrow. The
SAR ad the legal documents should have specified what was clearly intended, namely
that the project's main objectives was to reduce food insecurity and malnutritionfor the
target groups in the targeted areas, but that on the other hand there were other
objectives, such as to reduce the goiter prevalence among pregnant women and school
children and to prepare a National Food Security Strategy, and, through FID, to improve
access of rural poor to social and economic infrastructure and to promote the
development of local small contractors and consultants. Given Madagascar's very low
level of development, alleviating poverty was a priority of the Bank's assistance program.
The SAR recognized that, although necessary, sustained growth would not in itself be
sufficient to alleviate poverty, and that the poorest households needed to receive targeted
protection. The Bank strategy was to rely increasingly on NGOs and private
organizations with a proven track record in the field for efficient delivery of programs
reaching the most vulnerable groups. The project was complex, with many sub-
components; however, it was not too demanding for Government since adequate
arrangements had been made for the execution of those sub-components by other
organizations.
Implementation Experience and Results.
7.    Achievements can be assessed as "substantial" for physical objectives (compared
to the targets included in the SAR), gender issues and private sector development,
"partial" for institutional development and poverty reduction, and "negligible" for macro
policies and sector policies; other objectives listed in Table 1 do not apply.
8.    The achievements generated in relation to the project's major objectives are likely
to be maintained in the future. Both SECALINE and FID have become household words



Evaluation Summary                                                 Page iii
in Madagascar; in rural areas, families are even naming their newly born "SECALINE".
Generally, behavioral changes which have been promoted through well designed and
conducted IEC campaigns may be the main elements of sustainability of the project.
NGOs have kept most of the 535 community nutrition centers or sites active; the Ministry
of Health is following up on the Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program; the
same type of urban works as those undertaken under the food-for-work sub-component
will be continued by the Municipality of Antananarivo; IEC activities are also being
continued on a national scale; and the National Food Security Strategy has been adopted
by Government and is the main reference for any activity or research regarding food
security. The additional phases of FID requested by Government demonstrate that an
autonomous institution such as the FID remains the best option to implement small-scale
sub-projects at the community level. Regarding the sub-projects financed by FID, the
important community involvement in their identification, preparation, appraisal, selection
and implementation will contribute to their sustainability. Generally, the participatory
approach at the grass-roots level which characterizes this project means that many
stakeholders will want to make the achievements of the project last and to ensure that the
newly created assets are properly maintained. The sustainability of the project will also
be reinforced by the Second Social Fund Project or FID II (CR. 2778-MAG) approved in
1995, the Community Nutrition II Project (CR. 3060-MAG) or SEECALINE approved in
1998 and the Third Social Fund Project or FID Im approved in 1999, which continue and
expand in the six provinces of Madagascar most of the activities undertaken under this
project.
9.    The project was basically implemented according to schedule. The slight delay of
five months is attributable to the fact that the project was still needed to finance some
necessary operating costs before SECALINE II became effective. In addition, it was
envisaged at one point that the undisbursed balance of the credit would be used to finance
emergency locust control activities. The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US $
28.8 million, compared to the SAR estimate of US $ 32.4 million excluding taxes and
duties, or an 11 percent decrease. IDA disbursements in dollars were less than originally
forecast (minus 19 percent), but the World Food Program contributed more than the
original estimate (plus 26 percent). The contribution from Japan and UNICEF were the
same as forecast. Thirty-eight percent of the money was spent on FID sub-projects, 27
percent for the urban food-for-work sub-component, 21 percent for the community
nutrition program and the balance of 14 percent for the other sub-components and project
management.
10.   A number of factors affected project implementation and the achievement of the
project objectives. One factor which affected the project negatively in a major way was
the inability of SECALINE and the Ministry of Health to make satisfactory arrangements
for the treatment of severely malnourished children in nutrition rehabilitation centers run
by the Ministry of Health. Another problem of great significance at the time was the
dismissal of the General Manager of FID at the end of 1995. This was the only
occurrence of political interference in the project. The other factors that affected project
implementation negatively were a shortage of food for the food-for-work sub-component,



Evaluation Summary                                                  Page iv
delays in procurement, problems with the installation of computerized accounting
systems for both the BPS and FID, and too low a ceiling for the FID special account.
11.   On the positive side, the project benefited greatly from the fact that it was outside
the traditional government entities, worked closely with communities and relied
extensively on NGOs. This was one of the first IDA-financed projects with this type of
design. It also benefited from the availability of a reasonably well prepared
implementation plan. Under the successful SECALINE strategy, village communities
have been placed at the center of all project activities, as primary actors responsible for
their execution and as direct beneficiaries. Also, the IEC strategy and program designed
and implemented by nationals who had an intimate knowledge and understanding of local
behavior and customs had a high impact at a low cost. Finally, the project had
considerable backing from the country's political leadership who publicly speak of the
project as a Malagasy effort and not as a World Bank-financed project; generally
Government, and particularly the Prime Minister, have been very supportive of
SECALINE and FID and have not interfered with their day-to-day management. Close
collaboration with other donors also contributed to the project's success.
12.   The Bank performance on this project has been satisfactory at the identification
stage and for preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision. The Borrower
performance can also be rated as satisfactory for preparation, and highly satisfactory for
implementation and covenant compliance.
13.   The outcome of the project is satisfactory overall. The close monitoring done by
project management shows that, between the beginning of activities on the sites and
March 1998, the rate of malnutrition in the target community nutrition centers or sites has
decreased on average by 58 percent in the Province of Antananarivo and 48 percent in the
Province of Toliary. The Food-for-Work sub-component provided food rations to the
poorest segments of the population of Greater Antananarivo, and the FID operations
injected significant amounts of money in the rural areas of Madagascar, part of which
must have been used by the population to purchase food. Nationwide, the impact of the
project has been limited, since it seems that for the whole population of Madagascar
access to food has not increased but rather decreased and that overall the malnutrition rate
for Malagasy children has remained about the same, or is even slightly worse. In the
absence of sustained economic growth, the project contributed to attenuate the
deterioration in the conditions of Malagasy households, but the activities undertaken
under the project were not a scope sufficient to have a real impact on food insecurity and
malnutrition overall. Nevertheless, the successful implementation of the Community
Nutrition Program in the target sites paved the way for the launching of a more ambitious
program in the six provinces. One of the most interesting aspects of this component has
been the close link between IEC, nutrition and community development. As a result of
the Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program, the goiter prevalence in pregnant
women and school children dramatically decreased from 45 percent in 1992 to 15 percent
in 1998. FID has had a very positive impact in poor rural areas; over the years it has
become the instrument of choice of Government to implement its rural development



Evaluahon Summary                                                   Page v
strategy. The Food-for Work sub-component provided support to the poorest in urban
areas (the majority are women heads of households) by giving them food rations in return
for work performed in cleaning their neighborhoods. The National Food Security
Strategy was adopted by Government in December 1997 and is supposed to be used as a
reference for all actions and research on food security.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
14. The success of the project is due in large part to its flexibility and adaptability, but
the real people behind the success are the Malagasy who worked to make it go and the
poor for whom it was designed. This project is essentially a Government and Malagasy
project, which has been successfully implemented by Malagasy without any external long
term technical assistance. In Madagascar, it was the first project of this scope and size
working with communities and NGOs. One important finding is that it has clearly
demonstrated the benefits of such an approach on a scale which goes well beyond
previous attempts by pilot type operations. Achievements include: (i) the financing and
execution by FID of 348 infrastructure sub-projects, 36 income generating activities and
10 training sub-projects, which generated almost 2 million persons/days of temporary
employment and contributed to private sector development; (ii) the execution by BPS of
drainage and other urban works in Antananarivo (with co-financing by the WFP), which
generated almost 1.3 millions persons/days of temporary employment, of which over 70
percent benefited very poor women; (iii) the implementation by the Regional
Coordinations of SECAL1NE and NGOs, with co-financing by the WFP, of the
community nutrition program, which covered 535 community nutrition centers or sites
and provided growth monitoring for almost half a million children in the two provinces of
Antananarivo and Toliary; (iv) the very successful implementation by the BPS, the
Ministry of Health and UNICEF of the Iodine Deficiency Disorder (IDD) control
program; (v) the design and implementation by the BPS and the Regional Coordinations
of SECALINE of an effective IEC strategy; and (vi) the preparation by BPS with the
assistance of Malagasy experts of a national food security strategy which was adopted by
Government in December 1997.
15.   Out of the six sub-components included in the project, three will be continued and
expanded with IDA financing: FID, the community nutrition program and the lEC. The
Community Nutrition II Project (CR. 3060-MAG) aims to improve the nutritional status
of children under three, primary school children and pregnant and lactating women in the
project target areas. The second Social Fund Project (FID II) and the Third Social Fund
Project (FID HI) were approved in 1995 and 1999, respectively. The objectives of FID II
are to alleviate poverty and support community development through partnership with
NGOs and beneficiary communities. The objectives of FPD HI are: (i) improved access of
poor rural population to social and economic infrastructure; (ii) on a pilot basis,
empowerment of poor rural communities and/or communes to identify, organize, manage
funds, and implement sub-projects responsive to community needs in order to achieve
decentralized social and economic development; (iii) employment creation; and (iv)
improved capacity of private sector: local small contractors and consultants, artisans,



Evaluation Summary                                                   Page vi
skilled labor and NGOs. Also, the scope of FID activities has been expanded
considerably.
16.   A number of lessons can be learned from the implementation of this Food
Security and Nutrition Project. They have been taken into account in the design of the
Social Fund II and III and the Community Nutrition II Projects. The SECALINE
approach also inspired the design of Senegal's Community Nutrition Project as well as
Benin's Food Security and Nutrition Project. The main lessons are the following:
* Projects that are managed outside the traditional government entities tend to be more
efficient and flexible in getting quick results in the field and in serving the
communities. Both the BPS and FID were able to recruit on a contractual basis and
motivate competent and dedicated staff. Also, the fact that the project relied
extensively on NGOs and other decentralized community structures contributed to its
success. The effectiveness of the project was reinforced by the "contracting
approach" that was adopted, which lead to formal contracts (such as those with
NGOs) and more informal agreements (such as those with community nutrition
workers).
• Communities should actively participate in the design and implementation of project
interventions. Under the successful SECALINE strategy, village communities have
been placed at the center of all project activities, as primary actors responsible for
their execution and as direct beneficiaries.
* Strong national leadership and continuity is also very important for the success of any
community nutrition project.
* A successful project design includes, in addition to community participation, program
flexibility and training.
* The definition and acceptance of a satisfactory community exit strategy is a challenge
which presents many difficulties; nevertheless, the community should know from the
time of entry that the program will not go on forever.
* Implementation plans and manuals of procedures are very important to facilitate a
speedy and smooth implementation of a project. They give directions to project staff
and government officials as to what concrete steps need to be taken, and when, to
have successful outcomes.
* Behavioral changes which can be promoted through well designed and conducted
IEC campaigns are important elements of sustainability.
* The capacity of nationals to implement a new type of project entirely on their own,
without long-term external assistance, particularly when reasonably well prepared
implementation plans are available, should not be underestimated. There is a lot to be
said for learning by doing, even if it means making some mistakes.
* In a project that includes several components of a different nature and type, one
should expect that some components will work better than others and that there may



Evaluation Summawy                                                  Page vii
be conflicts between different strong institutional entities responsible for
implementation.
*  An IEC strategy and program designed by nationals -'ho have an intimate knowledge
and understanding of local behavior and customs can have, if properly implemented,
a high impact at a low cost.
* The delegated contract management approach for the construction or rehabilitation of
infrastructure works well and at a reasonable cost, not only in urban areas (as has
been demonstrated by the AGETIPs), but also in rural areas, despite the severe
logistical problems in Madagascar.



PART 1:
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CREDIT 2474-MAG
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives
1.1   At the time the project was processed and the credit made, Madagascar was among
the least developed countries in the world. Despite Madagascar's significant development
potential, its social conditions were, and continue to be below sub-Saharan African standards:
chronic malnutrition rates were about 40 percent; child mortality claimed 20 percent of live
births before age 5; endemic malaria had become a major health problem; tuberculosis and
other communicable diseases were growing in importance; and education standards were low
with enrolment rates falling, though from a relatively high level. To remedy that situation
and to help the poorer segments of the population during the period of adjustment which
started in 1985, the Bank financed sectoral operations in education and health, as well as an
Economic Management and Social Action Project (EMSAPIPASAGE) which included pilot
targeted programs to reduce food insecurity among the poor. The experience of those pilot
programs was taken into account in the design of the project, including the need to: (a)
involve communities and beneficiaries in project design and execution; (b) work outside
traditional government structures; (c) have clearly outlined decision making structures and
lines of authority in multi-component projects; and (d) have a good monitoring, financial
management and accounting system. The project supported a national program prepared by
government called SECALINE (SECurite AlImentaire et Nutrition Elargie), and came to be
known in Madagascar as the SECALINE project.
1.1   As succinctly stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), the project objective was to reduce food insecurity and malnutrition in
Madagascar's two most food-insecure provinces (which are Antananarivo and Toliary)
through income generating projects and targeted nutrition programs. The project objectives
were not modified during project implementation.
1.2   To help achieve the above objective, the project which was to be primarily active in
two of Madagascar's six provinces consisted of three components: (a) Income Generating



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 2
Activities to be carried out through (i) the Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement
(FID), a social fund financing labor intensive works and other income generation activities
and (ii) a Food for Work Program targeted to the urban poor in Greater Antananarivo; (b)
Nutrition Interventions including (i) a Community Nutrition Program in the provinces of
Antananarivo and Toliary working through mother groups organized by a community
nutrition agent supported by NGOs to provide nutrition education, arrange supplemental
feeding and refer severe cases of malnutrition to nutrition rehabilitation centers operating
under medical supervision and (ii) a national Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control
program; and (c) Institutional Strengthening to support the development and execution of an
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) program and support the development of a
National Food Security Strategy for the long term. At the time of the mid-term review of the
Project, the operations of FID were extended to all six provinces, as envisaged in the
description of the project which read: "Preparation and execution of sub-projects in the
Borrower's Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary, and such other Provinces as may be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association".
1.3   The Food Security and Nutrition Project was to be implemented under the overall
guidance of a National Coordinator assisted by the SECALINE Project Office (Bureau
d'Ex&ution du Projet SECALINE - BPS) with different arrangements depending on the
component and sub-component. The BPS' role was to coordinate, support and monitor
implementation, including project financial management, accounting and auditing, but
excluding FID. The FID had been set up as a non-profit association operating independently
in accordance with the provisions of its Articles of Agreement, By-laws and Manual of
Procedures, and of a Framework Agreement between FID and the Government. The Food
for Work program was to be executed in cooperation with the target neighborhood with
support from an ILO technical assistance team recruited to manage the program. The
implementation of the community nutrition program was to be the responsibility of Regional
Coordinators (one for each province). The Iodine Deficiency Disorders control program was
to be executed by UNICEF in collaboration with the Ministries of Health and Scientific
Research. The development of a long-term food security strategy was the responsibility of
the National Coordinator and of the Comite Inter-minisferiel de Coordination du projet
SECALINE (CICS). The total project cost estimate was US$32.4 million equivalent, and the
project was expected to be completed by January 31, 1998 and the credit closed on July 31,
1998.
1.4   The formulation of the project's objective was both too broad and too narrow. The
SAR and the legal documents should have specified what was clearly intended, namely that
the project's main objective was to reduce food insecurity and malnutritionfor the target
groups in the targeted areas, but that on the other hand there were other objectives, such as
to reduce the goiter prevalence among pregnant women and school children and to prepare a
National Food Security Strategy, and through FID, to improve access of rural poor to social
and economic infrastructure and to promote the development of local small contractors and
consultants. Actually, the SAR and the supplemental letter to DCA included quantified
criteria along those lines for judging the achievement of the project objectives. Given
Madagascar's very low level of development, alleviating poverty was a priority of the Bank's



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 3
assistance program. The project had been designed to address those aspects of food
insecurity that would not be tackled by adjustment or investment operations in agriculture,
infrastructure and the social sectors. The SAR recognized that, although necessary, sustained
growth would not in itself be sufficient to alleviate poverty, and that the poorest households
needed to receive targeted protection. The Bank strategy was to rely increasingly on NGOs
and private organizations with a proven track record in the field for efficient delivery of
programs reaching the most vulnerable groups. Obviously, the project's objective was also
very important for Madagascar. The project was complex, with many sub-components.
However, it was not too demanding for Government since adequate arrangements, including
delegating or sub-contracting to the BPS, FID and other organizations, had been made for the
execution of those sub-components. Nevertheless, the SAR stressed that the main risk was
implementation delay that could result from inadequate management, and that there was also
a risk of conflict between two potentially strong institutional entities: the BPS and the FID.
Achievement of Project Objectives
1.5   The design of the project, with its combination of nutrition programs and income
generating activities, was appropriate for achieving the project's objective as interpreted
above. However, the performance/monitoring indicators or targets were not very ambitious.
Based on the initially planned coverage included in the SAR, the cost per beneficiary of the
community nutrition program in particular was high considering the very low per capita
income in the country. This should be kept in mind when assessing the degree to which the
project achieved its objective.
1.6 Achievements are highlighted in the Aide-Memoire of the completion mission of
April1999 (Annex A) and in the Borrower's Report (Annex B); also, Table 5 provides a
summary of the achievements and shortcomings of the project through key indicators for
project implementation and operation.
1.7   Achievements include:
* The financing and execution by FID of 348 infrastructure sub-projects (including the
construction/rehabilitation of 124 primary schools, 45 health centers, 29 community
water supply schemes, 54 micro irrigated perimeters, 8 community markets, 56
communal roads and 23 bridges), 36 income generating activities and 10 training sub-
projects, which generated almost 2 millions persons/days of temporary employment, and
involved 431 contracts with small enterprises and 76 contracts with NGOs and
contributed, therefore, to private sector development.
* Under the urban food-for-work sub-component, the execution by BPS of drainage and
other urban works in Antananarivo (with co-financing by the WFP and a management
contract with ILO), which generated almost 1.3 millions persons/days of temporary
employment, of which over 70 percent benefited very poor women. However, the
employment created is only about 40 percent of the target or indicator in the SAR.



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 4
* The implementation by the Regional Coordinations of SECALINE and NGOs, with co-
financing by the WFP, of the community nutrition program, which covered 53 5
community nutrition centers or sites (compared to 250 estimated at appraisal) and
provided growth monitoring for almost half a million children in the two provinces of
Antananarivo and Toliary (262,000 for Antananarivo and 229,000 for Toliary) compared
to the SAR estimate of about 300,000 children (103,000 for Antananarivo and 207,000
for Toliary).
* The very successful implementation by the BPS, the Ministry of Health and UNICEF of
the Iodine Deficiency Disorder (IDD) control program, with the distribution to pregnant
women and children of iodine capsules provided by UNICEF and the iodization of most
of the salt produced in Madagascar.
* The design and implementation by the BPS and the Regional Coordinations of
SECALINE of an effective IEC strategy, which enabled SECALINE to convey its
messages on nutrition education and IDD control to the population and be understood by
them.
* The preparation by the BPS with the assistance of Malagasy experts of a national food
security strategy which was adopted by Government in December 1997.
1.8   Achievements can be assessed as "substantial" for physical objectives (compared to
the targets included in the SAR), gender issues and private sector development, "partial" for
institutional development and poverty reduction, and "negligible" for macro policies and
sector policies; other objectives listed in Table 1 do not apply.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The project
1.9   The Borrower's report in Annex B describes the implementation record for the
project. Performance on implementation and achievement of development objectives have
been generally good, with no major problem during the whole implementation period.
1.10 The project was basically implemented according to schedule. The slight delay of
five months is attributable to the fact that the project was still needed to cover some
necessary operating costs before the Community Nutrition II Project (SEECALINE) became
effective. In addition, it was envisaged that the undisbursed balance of the credit would be
used to finance emergency locust control activities. In May 1998, the Government of
Madagascar requested that US$ 2 million of the US$ 3 million undisbursed balance be
utilized for that purpose. As a result, in August 1998, a formal amendment to the project was
made (along with 2 agriculture projects--Irrigation and Extension) to re-allocate US$ 2
million on an emergency basis to the locust control initiative; it was forecasted that all funds
would be disbursed by the revised closing date of December 31, 1998. By November 1998,
none of the allocated funds had been utilized since the locust situation had somewhat
improved combined with the fact that the Government was not very clear as to what types of
activities needed to be funded. As a result, it was agreed with the Government that this credit



Project Implementation Assessment                                        Page 5
would close on December 31, 1998, and that funds from selected agriculture projects would
be utilized as necessary to finance locust control activities.
1.11 Tables 8 and 9 show the project cost and project financing. The latest estimate of the
cost of the project is US $ 28.8 million, compared to the SAR estimate of US $ 32.4 million
excluding taxes and duties, or an 11 percent decrease. IDA disbursements in dollars were
less than originally forecast (minus 19 percent), but the World Food Program contributed
more than the original estimate (plus 26 percent). The contribution from Japan and UNICEF
were the same as forecast. Both the Government and beneficiary contributions were less
than estimated, minus 35 percent and minus 66 percent respectively. The reduction in
beneficiary contributions was in large part due to the fact that disbursements for FID were
mostly for infrastructure sub-projects with a minimum beneficiary contribution of only 5
percent and for a much smaller number of income generating activities (with a beneficiary
contribution of 20 percent) than originally assumed. Thirty-eightpercent of the money was
spent on FID sub-projects, 27 percent for the urban food-for-work sub-component 21
percent for the community nutrition program and the balance of 14 percent for the other sub-
components and project management.
1.12 A number of factors affected project implementation and the achievement of the
project objectives. One factor which affected the project negatively in a major way was the
inability of SECALINE and the Ministry of Health to make satisfactory arrangements for the
treatment of severely malnourished children in nutrition rehabilitation centers run by the
Ministry of Health. The centers that were established (5 for Antananarivo and 7 for Toliary)
did not provide the kind of services that were needed, primarily because of the shortage of
drugs but also because of the sometimes great distances between the rehabilitation centers
and the community nutrition centers. Also, community nutrition agents were not properly
trained as to what to do with severely malnourished children.
1.13  Another problem of great significance at the time was the dismissal of the General
Manager of FID. In late 1994, the Government appointed the Minister of the Interior as
National Coordinator of SECALINE, who also became the new President of the Board of
Directors of FID. Relations between the National Coordinator and the General Manager of
FID became progressively very tense during the course of 1995. In the Fall of 1995, the
National Coordinator informed the Bank of its decision to fire the General Manager of FID
for so called "serious professional misdemeanors". The allegations did not appear very
convincing. In any event, the Bank pointed out that the General Manager had been appointed
by the Board of Directors of FID and that only the Board of Directors could dismiss him. At
the end of 1995 the Board of Directors of FID voted, at the request of its President, to dismiss
the General Manager. It took more than six months in 1996 to recruit a replacement for the
General Manager. During that same year, the Board of Directors of FID did not meet as it
should have to take care of FID business. It is also during that period that a few of the
project vehicles were used for purposes other than the project. This incident of the dismissal
of the General Manager is one aspect of a more general "conflict" between two strong
institutions, the BPS of SECALINE and FID, which was resolved when the FID became
completely independent of SECALINE. In any event, the situation was not catastrophic



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 6
since FID continued to function, but at a considerably lower level of activity than could have
otherwise been achieved. It is worth noting that this was the only occurrence of political
interference in the project. Government, and particularly the Prime Minister, have generally
been very supportive of SECALINE and FID and have not interfered with their day-to-day
management.
1.14  The other factors that affected project implementation negatively were:
*  A shortage of food for the food-for-work sub-component due to difficulties that the WFP
experienced in importing food. As a consequence, the urban works were in effect
suspended for about one year.
* Delays in procurement, particularly vehicles purchased through IAPSO (the delays were
not due to IAPSO, but to cumbersome Malagasy procedures).
* Problems with the installation of computerized accounting systems for both the BPS and
FID. A Malagasy accounting firm had been given a contract to design computerized
accounting systems but was not able to deliver a satisfactory product (i.e., adapted to the
requirements of BPS and FID) on time. After much delay, the contract was canceled, and
both BPS and FID purchased and used software available off-the-shelf (TOMPRO).
*  Too low a ceiling for the FID special account, so that at times FID ran out of money and
had to delay payments to contractors.
1.15 On the positive side, the success of the project is due in large part to its flexibility and
adaptability, but the real people behind the success are the Malagasy who worked to make it
go and the poor for whom it was designed. The project benefited greatly from the fact that it
was outside the traditional government entities, worked closely with communities and relied
extensively on NGOs. The effectiveness of the project was reinforced by the "contracting
approach" that was adopted, which lead to formal contracts (such as those with NGOs) and
more informal agreements (such as those with community nutrition workers). This was one
of the first IDA-financed projects with this type of design. The project launch workshop was
widely attended, involving people ranging from cabinet ministers to poor peasants, which
helped to increase borrower ownership. The project was well targeted towards the poorest
segments of the population. It also benefited from the availability of a reasonably well
prepared implementation plan. The two main implementing agencies, BPS and PID, were
able to recruit, on a contractual basis, competent, motivated and dedicated staff at all levels.
Basically, they did a good job of managing the project, with a very active participation of
other agencies, NGOs and communities. Under the successful SECALINE strategy, village
communities have been placed at the center of all project activities, as primary actors
responsible for their execution and as direct beneficiaries. Also, the IEC strategy and
program designed and implemented by nationals who had an intimate knowledge and
understanding of local behavior and customs had a high impact at a low cost. This is
particularly true for the Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program. The choice of a
delegated contract management approach for the construction or rehabilitation of



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 7
infrastructure by FID turned out to a good choice; it worked well despite the severe logistical
problems that are prevalent in the rural areas of Madagascar. Finally, the project had
considerable backing from the country's political leadership who publicly speak of the
project as a Malagasy effort and not as a World Bank-financed project.
1.16  Close collaboration with other donors contributed to the project's success. The
financing from Japan helped in having a rather well prepared project. The World Food
Program (WFP) provided more money than estimated at appraisal for the community
nutrition program and the food-for-work activities. UNICEF was instrumental in bringing
the Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program to a very satisfactory conclusion.
The International Labor Office (ILO), which was not a donor, did a good job as executing
agency for the food-for-work sub-component.
Project Sustainability
1.17  The achievements generated in relation to the project's major objectives are likely to
be maintained in the future. Both SECALINE and FID have become household words in
Madagascar; in rural areas, families are even naming their newly born " SECALINE".
Generally, behavioral changes which have been promoted through well designed and
conducted IEC campaigns may be the main elements of sustainability of the project. NGOs
have kept most of the 535 community nutrition centers or sites active, in the sense that
mothers continue to meet periodically with the former community nutrition agents to
undertake group activities, not necessarily limited to nutrition. The Ministry of Health is
following up on the Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program; under the new
Community Nutrition II Project, IEC and surveys will be conducted in primary schools to
collect information from students on the use of iodized salt. Local management committees
have been established and trained to maintain the drainage and other urban works carried out
under the food-for-work sub-component. However, it is an open question whether those
committees will be able to mobilize resources to effectively maintain the works. In any
event, the Government is seeking additional financing to undertake more food-for-work
activities. The same type of urban works will be continued by the Municipality of
Antananarivo; under the project for the development of the Antananarivo plain (Cr. 2117-
MAG), the Municipality promoted the creation of two private companies to manage urban
infrastructure. IEC activities are also being continued on a national scale in the Community
Nutrition II Project. The National Food Security Strategy has been adopted by Government
and is the main reference for any activity or research regarding food security.
1.18 The institutional sustainability of a social fund like FID is usually dependent on the
availability of additional external financing, which has already been forthcoming from IDA
and may be coming from other donors. The additional phases of FID requested by
Government demonstrate that an autonomous institution such as the FID remains the best
option to implement small-scale sub-projects at the community level. Regarding the sub-
projects financed by FID, the important community involvement in their identification,
preparation, appraisal, selection and implementation will contribute to their sustainability.
Because the beneficiaries made a financial contribution for the sub-projects, they have a



11"?ject Implementation Assessment                                         Page 8
sense of ownership and are interested in ensuring that the infrastructure is properly utilized
by the community and that adequate funds are allocated towards maintenance. In the cases
oA primary schools and health posts, prior to the start of the works, the sectoral ministry made
s commitment that the appropriate personnel (teacher in the case of a school and nurse/mid-
vviie in the case of a health post) will be transferred to that facility once it is completed.
During the last year, FID has made a substantial effort to create awareness among the
communities who benefited from sub-projects on the importance of maintenance. Cost
fecovery mechanisms have been put in place, and arrangements have been made to train
community members in proper maintenance techniques.
1.19  Generally, the participatory approach at the grass-roots level which characterizes this
project means that many stakeholders will want to make the achievements of the project last
and to ensure that the newly created assets are properly maintained. The sustainability of the
project will also be reinforced by the Second Social Fund Project or FID II (Cr. 2778-MAG)
approved in 1995 and the Community Nutrition II Project (Cr. 3060-MAG) approved in 1998
and the Third Social Fund Project or FID III (Cr. 3180-MAG) approved in 1999, which
continues to expand in the six provinces of Madagascar most of the activities undertaken
umder this project.
.-ank Performance
1.20  The Bank performance on this project has been satisfactory at the identification stage
and for preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision.
1.21   As mentioned earlier, the project objective was important for Madagascar and for the
Bank's country assistance strategy. At the identification stage, a number of important
decisions were made regarding the project design, in order to minimize some of the
component specific risks that were anticipated. Among those it is worth mentioning the
decisions: (i) to require community participation from the beginning and to support the
development of grass-roots development groups focusing on self-help for practically all the
sub-components; (ii) to set up FID not as a public enterprise but as a private non-profit
association; (iii) to contract out to the private sector whenever feasible; (iv) to emphasize
nutrition surveillance and limit preventive feeding supplementation; (v) to focus nutrition
education on the more efficient use of materials already available to the households; (vi) to
hire the ILO as an executing agency and to target the poorest neighborhood and the most
unappealing work (i.e., cleaning drains) for the food-for-work sub-component; and (vii) to
use an NGO familiar with the area to execute the program and giving it and its agents as
much decision making independence as possible. On the other hand, the design of the
project did not pay sufficient attention to the cost effectiveness of some activities; in
particular, the cost per beneficiary of the community nutrition program was very high -
approximately US$15.00 equivalent - considering the very low per capita income in the
country (during project implementation, it was brought down to a more acceptable range of
roughly $4-7 per child). Also, the inclusion in the project of the preparation of a National
Food Security Strategy is questionable; such a strategy necessarily involves all sectors of the
economy, and it was not obvious that the staff supervising the project would be able to deal
wiL this sub-component.



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 9
1.22  The Bank performance for preparation assistance (and also for appraisal, which did
not always involve an independent review of work done during preparation) was satisfactory.
As mentioned earlier, the project was relatively well prepared thanks to the PHRD grant
provided by Japan and administered by the Bank. Because of the availability of an
implementation plan, both BPS and FID were able to start field operations relatively quickly.
Nevertheless, the preparation of the project could have been more thorough and detailed in
certain areas. Here are a few examples. First, the model of contract with NGO to be used for
the community nutrition program was finalized several months after project approval, after
the BPS had extensive discussions with all interested parties, particularly the WFP. Second,
the manual of procedures of FID was well done for infrastructure sub-projects, but deficient
for income generating activities and training sub-projects; it had to be completed during
project implementation. Third, in the early years of project implementation some additional
preparatory work had to be done on other sub-components, and both the BPS and FID had to
prepare their own manuals of administrative and financial procedures. Finally, project
preparation could have provided more guidance to SECALINE on the preparation of the
National Food Security Strategy.
1.23  The project has been well supervised by the Bank, with a right balance between
discussions in Antananarivo with the implementing agencies and field visits. There has been
some continuity in staff. The Bank has been very supportive of the BPS and FID and has
shown great flexibility in encouraging them to adjust their operations to respond to problems
as they arose. Bank staff and project management acted in unison to control project staff and
prevent them from taking advantage of the minor graft opportunities that a project of this
type presents. The assignment of the task manager to Antananarivo in 1998 allowed the
Bank to provide a better service to the implementing agencies. The only negative aspects are
that the Bank was not able: (i) to find, jointly with the Ministry of Health and the BPS, a
solution to the problem of the treatment of severely malnourished children - tense relations
between the Ministry of Health and the Bank since 1995 did not help; and (ii) to make a
substantive contribution to the preparation of the National Food Security Strategy, in order to
ensure that it be translated into concrete actions, including World Bank-financed projects.
1.24 The Borrower Report (Annex B) includes a favorable judgment on the performance
of the Bank, referring to the excellent climate of cooperation between the Bank and the
implementing agencies and to all the help that Bank missions have been providing through
aide memoires, recommendations for improvements, and assistance on procurement.
However, the report regrets that the same Bank staff who supervised the project were not
responsible for the preparation of the follow up Community Nutrition ]I Project to ensure a
certain continuity of approach based on their knowledge of the needs of the country.
Borrower Performance
1.25  The Borrower performance can be rated as satisfactory for preparation, and highly
satisfactory for implementation and covenant compliance.
1.26 Originally the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, the preparation of the
project was transferred in 1992 by the "transition" Government to a project structure outside



Project Implementation Assessment                                     Page 10
the central administration reporting directly to the Prime Minister. A National Coordinator
was appointed and the Bureau d'Excution du Projet SECALINE - BPS was established. A
small nucleus of staff collaborated closely with Bank staff and international consultants
(including ILO) to help define the final phase of preparation. The transitional authorities
showed strong support for the project and for independent project execution. Generally,
support for this type of poverty alleviation project was widespread across the political
spectrum.
1.27 Government and the implementing agencies have always been in compliance with
covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Agreement - Tables
1 1 and 12. As mentioned earlier, except for one occasion Government has let the BPS and
FID implement the project without interference in its day-to-day management. Government
has been very supportive of the implementing agencies; in particular, counterpart funds have
been made available as required when other projects in Madagascar have suffered.
1.28 The two implementing agencies, BPS and FID, have done a very good job of
implementing the project. Despite the availability of an implementation plan, getting the
project going was no small affair: staff had to be recruited, promotional activities had to be
launched, NGOs and other partners had to be identified and briefed on their role in the
project, etc. The project quickly gained momentum, and disbursements have been in line
with the forecasts. The fact that there were not that many changes in personnel during the
project period helped. The implementing agencies essentially executed the project as defined
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and in accordance with the procedures and methods of
execution specified in the implementation plan. When needed, however, they showed
flexibility to respond to problems as they arose and adjusted their operations accordingly.
Program flexibility and training improved the project. A few examples of that capacity to
adjust are given in the following paragraphs.
1.29  The cost estimate for the project included US$ 480,000 equivalent, to be financed
from the IDA credit, to cover the cost of two expatriates in 1994 and 1995 (or 4 persons/
years) that would assist FID for project implementation. After the signing of the credit the
newly appointed General Manager of FID indicated that he did not need nor want such long-
term technical assistance. He thought that it would be better for FID national staff to be fully
in charge and to learn by doing, even if it meant doing some mistakes. The Bank task
manager agreed that it was worthwhile giving it a try. Some of the first projects financed by
FID experienced quality problems, which was not too surprising since FID started working
with inexperienced local consultants and contractors, not to mention the shortcomings of its
own technical staff. In order to correct the situation, about 18 months after the beginning of
operations, the General Manager of FID then recruited an expatriate consultant to make a
diagnosis of the status and quality of the completed works and develop training programs for
local consultants, contractors and FID staff specifically tailored to their needs. Those
training programs were subsequently carried out with good results. This is a good example
of an appropriate response by FID to a problem that they had identified and of a good use of
technical assistance: not something that is imposed upon the Borrower by the Bank, but
something that the Borrower itself is asking for because it really needs it and wants it.



Project Implementation Assessment                                      Page 11
1.30  As mentioned earlier, in the original project design the cost per beneficiary of the
community nutrition program was very high. Once the program had been successfully
launched and taken hold in the two provinces, the BPS started considering ways to improve
the cost effectiveness of the program. The obvious way to do it was to increase substantially
the number of beneficiaries with only a very small increase in costs. This is exactly what the
BPS and the two regional coordinations managed to achieve by increasing the number of
community nutrition centers from the SAR estimate of 250 to 535, more than doubling the
coverage. As a consequence, the cost per beneficiary was brought down from about $15
equivalent per child to a more acceptable range of the equivalent of four to seven dollars per
child.
1.31  The development of a National Food Security Strategy was supposed to be the
responsibility of the National Coordinator and the Comite Inter-ministgriel de Coordination
du Projet SECALINE (CICS) with support from international and national experts. Somehow
the CICS did not function properly and the project management had some reservations about
using international consultants. The BPS recruited national experts to prepare the strategy
which was discussed and reviewed in sixteen regional and one national workshops before
being adopted by Government in 1997. In the end, this Malagasy product reflected the
realities of the country.
1.32 Both BPS and FID internalized the preparatory work that had been done by others
(particularly international consultants) so that they could feel comfortable with the scope and
contents of the project as well as the methods of execution. They also filled the gaps in the
preparatory work. They prepared manuals of internal procedures that proved to be very
useful for project and personnel management. Finally, FID completed its manual of
procedures for operations, dealing more extensively with income generating activities and
private sector support (training).
Assessment of Outcome
1.33  An assessment of the project's impact is in the Aide-memoire of the completion
mission of April 1999 (Annex A) and in the Borrower Contribution to the ICR (Annex B), as
well as in Table 5 on key indicators for project implementation and operation. This project is
essentially a Government and Malagasy project, which has been successfully implemented
by Malagasy without any external long term technical assistance. In Madagascar, it was the
first project of this scope and size working with communities and NGOs. One important
outcome is that it has clearly demonstrated the benefits of such an approach on a scale which
goes well beyond previous attempts by pilot type operations.
1.34  On the basis of the project's objectives as interpreted above, the outcome of the
various components can be rated as satisfactory for the target groups in the targeted areas.
1.35 In addition to the impact ofthe project itself, many factors, such as the climatic
conditions and the volume of agricultural production, influence the rate of malnutrition. The
close monitoring done by project management shows that, between the beginning of
activities on the sites and March 1998, the rate of malnutrition in the target community



Project Implementation Assessment                                       Page 12
nutrition centers or sites has decreased on average by 58 percent in the Province of
Antananarivo and 48 percent in the Province of Toliary. However, household surveys for the
years 1993 and 1997 show that nationwide, on the basis of the weightlage ratio, the
proportion of moderately malnourished children has remained about the same at 45 percent,
and that the proportion of severely malnourished children has increased from about 15
percent to about 18 percent. The malnutrition rates have remained about the same in the
province of Antananarivo but are significantly worse in the province of Toliary.
1.36 The Food-for-Work sub-component provided food rations to the poorest segments of
the population of Greater Antananarivo, and the FID operations injected significant amounts
of money in the rural areas of Madagascar. Obviously, part of this money must have been
used by the population to purchase food. Nationwide, the impact of the project has been
limited, since it seems that for the whole population of Madagascar access to food has not
increased but rather decreased. Household surveys conducted in Madagascar show that
average expenditures for food per household increased from FMG 789,000 in 1993 to FMG
1,326,000 in 1997, an increase of 68 percent; however, during the same period, the price of a
kilogram of ordinary rice in Antananarivo increased from FMG 766 in 1993 to FMG 1,926 in
1997, an increase of 151 percent!
1.37  The successfuul implementation ofthe Community Nutrition Program in the target
sites paved the way for the launching of a more ambitious program in the six provinces. The
BPS contracted about 50 NGOs for the implementation of the program. One of the most
interesting aspects of this component has been the close link between IEC, nutrition and
community development. IEC messages have been developed regionally using results from
local KAP (Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices) Surveys and beneficiary assessment surveys.
Relevant messages have been developed in accordance with local mores.
1.38  Madagascar had high levels of goitre and cretinism due to iodine deficiency; the areas
at risk have a population of 9 million people, or 70 percent of the population of the country.
As a result of the Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) control program, the goiter prevalence
in pregnant women and school children dramatically decreased from 45 percent in 1992 to 15
percent in 1998. The availability of iodized salt in households rose equally dramatically
from 0 percent in 1995 to more than 90 percent in 1998. Those improvements were achieved
at a small cost of US$ 0.11 equivalent per person. This is the most successful part of the
project which had a great impact at a very limited cost. The IDD control program, jointly
financed and executed with UNICEF, is another example of good inter-agency cooperation.
1.39  The FID financed and executed 348 infrastructure sub-projects, 36 income generating
activities and 10 training sub-projects. FID's operations generated almost 2 millions
persons/days of temporary employment, and involved 431 contracts with small enterprises
and 76 contracts with NGOs. It was the first time in many years that something was
happening at the village level. FID has had a very positive impact in poor rural areas; over
the years it has become the instrument of choice of Government to implement its rural
development strategy. By giving local contractors and consulting firms an opportunity to



Project ImplementationAssessment                                      Page 13
obtain contracts and by paying them promptly for work actually done, the PID made also an
important contribution to private sector development.
1.40 The Food-for Work sub-component provided support to the poorest in urban areas
(the majority are women heads of households) by giving them food rations in return for work
performed in cleaning their neighborhoods. It has helped the poorest residents of the greater
Antananarivo area. It also included a drive to reduce the rat population to mitigate the
endemic bubonic plague in the poorer overpopulated areas of the city. The Food-for-Work
program created almost 1.3 millions persons/days (about 70 percent among women) of
employment linked to cleaning up poor neighborhood. However, the employment created is
only about 40 percent of the target or indicator in the SAR. The program is also a good
illustration of a working partnership between the World Bank and other UN Agencies, with
WFP providing the food and the ILO helping to manage the program.
1.41 The National Food Security Strategy was adopted by Government in December 1997
and is supposed to be used as a reference for all actions and research on food security. It
seems that the WFP has taken it into account for programming its operations, but
unfortunately it has been ignored by other donors, including the World Bank. As an
example, despite a Government request the Bank did not agree to include in the Community
Nutrition II Project Food-for-Work activities which are definitely part of the strategy. The
Bank was never able to give a good reason why this request was not accepted.
1.42 On balance, the objectives of the project as interpreted above have been met, and the
outcome of the project is satisfactory overall.
Future Operation
1.43  Out of the six sub-components included in the project, three will be continued and
expanded with IDA financing: FID, the community nutrition program and the IEC.
1.44 The Community Nutrition II Project (CR. 3060-MAG) aims to improve the
nutritional status of children under three, primary school children and pregnant and lactating
women in the project target areas. It also aims at increasing the capacity of village
communities to combat the determinants of malnutrition. The community nutrition program
will be extended to all six provinces of the country, with the establishment 4,040 nutrition
centers. Since the project's focus, and its main challenge, is to promote behavior changes,
the project will invest significantly in IEC to communicate simple and powerful messages to
communities, especially to parents, and in the training of staff.
1.45  The Second Social Fund Project (FID ID) and the Third Social Fund Project (FID III)
were approved in 1995 and 1999, respectively. The objectives of FID II are to alleviate
poverty and support community development through partnership with NGOs and
beneficiary communities. The objectives of PID Im are: (i) improved access of poor rural
population to social and economic infrastructure; (ii) on a pilot basis, empowerment of poor
rural communities and/or communes to identify, organize, manage funds, and implement
sub-projects responsive to community needs in order to achieve decentralized social and



Project Implementation Assessment                                       Page 14
economic development; (iii) employment creation; and (iv) improved capacity of private
sector: local small contractors and consultants, artisans, skilled labor and NGOs. The scope
of FID activities has been expanded considerably, but FID strategy remains concerned with
its whole portfolio of sub-projects, including the early ones that it has financed under this
project. Recently, FID contracted four Malagasy consulting firms to undertake an inspection
and review of all the sub-projects with a particular focus on maintenance. The fact that FID
will not finance any new sub-project in a commune where a sub-project previously financed
is not properly maintained constitutes a powerful incentive for communes and beneficiaries
to maintain sub-projects. Since a few of the early sub-projects suffered from quality
problems for which the beneficiaries were not responsible, FID is considering the possibility
of providing additional financing to correct those problems.
1.46 A future evaluation by OED is not likely at this stage to throw new light on the
impact of the project or identify additional lessons learned and is, therefore, a low priority. It
might be more productive a few years from now when the full impact of several operations in
nutrition and for the social fund can be evaluated.
Key Lessons Learned
1.47 A number of lessons can be learned from the implementation of this Food Security
and Nutrition Project. They have been taken into account in the design of the Social Fund II
and Im and the Community Nutrition II Projects. The SECALINE approach also inspired the
design of Senegal's Community nutrition Project as well as Benin's Food Security and
Nutrition Project. The main lessons are the following:
* Projects that are managed outside the traditional government entities tend to be more
efficient and flexible in getting quick results in the field and in serving the communities.
Both the BPS and FID were able to recruit on a contractual basis and motivate competent
and dedicated staff. Also, the fact that the project relied extensively on NGOs and other
decentralized community structures contributed to its success. The effectiveness of the
project was reinforced by the "contracting approach" that was adopted, which lead to
fornal contracts (such as those with NGOs) and more informal agreements (such as those
with community nutrition workers).
*  Communities should actively participate in the design and implementation of project
interventions. Under the successful SECALINE strategy, village communities have been
placed at the center of all project activities, as primary actors responsible for their
execution and as direct beneficiaries.
*  Strong national leadership and continuity is also very important for the success of any
community nutrition project.
*  A successful project design includes, in addition to community participation, program
flexibility and training.



Project Implementation Assessment                                     Page 15
* The definition and acceptance of a satisfactory community exit strategy is a challenge
which presents many difficulties; nevertheless, the community should know from the
time of entry that the program will not go on forever.
*  Implementation plans and manuals of procedures are very important to facilitate a speedy
and smooth implementation of a project. They give directions to project staff and
government officials as to what concrete steps need to be taken, and when, to have
successful outcomes.
* Behavioral changes which can be promoted through well designed and conducted IEC
campaigns are important elements of sustainability.
* The capacity of nationals to implement a new type of project entirely on their own,
without long-term external assistance, particularly when reasonably well prepared
implementation plans are available, should not be underestimated. There is a lot to be
said for learning by doing, even if it means making some mistakes.
* In a project that includes several components of a different nature and type, one should
expect that some components will work better than others and that there may be conflicts
between different strong institutional entities responsible for implementation.
* An IEC strategy and program designed by nationals who have an intimate knowledge and
understanding of local behavior and customs can have, if properly implemented, a high
impact at a low cost.
*  The delegated contract management approach for the construction or rehabilitation of
infrastructure works well and at a reasonable cost, not only in urban areas (as has been
demonstrated by the AGETIPs), but also in rural areas, despite the severe logistical
problems in Madagascar.



2. STATISTICAL ANNEX



Statisfical Annex                                                    Page 17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of        Substantial    Partial    Negligible     Not
Objectives                                                      Applicable
Macro Policies                                         X
Sector Policies                                        X
Financial Objectives                                                X
Institutional Development                 X
Physical Objectives           X
Poverty Reduction                         X
Gender Issues                 X
Other Social Objectives                                             x
Environmental Objectives                                            X
Public Sector Management                                            X
Private Sector                X
Development
Other (specify)                                                     x
B. Project Sustainability     Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
x



StatisticalAnnex                                                       Page 18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C. Bank Performance              Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                     X
Preparation Assistance                             X
Appraisal                                          X
Supervision                                        X
D. Borrower Performance          Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                      X
Covenant Compliance                 X
Operation (if applicable)         N/A.            N/A.            N/A.
E. Assessment      Highly     Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
of Outcome      Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
x



Stafisfical Annex                                                 Page 19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or               Purpose                  Year of    Status
Loan Title                                      Approval
Preceding
Operations
CR 2094    Education Sector Reinforcement Project  1990    Closed
(CRESED)
CR 2243    Livestock Project                       1991    Ongoing
CR. 2251    National Health Sector (CRESAN)        1991    Ongoing
CR 2382    Vocational Education (PREFTEC)          1992    Ongoing.
Following
Operations
CR. 2591    Antananarivo Urban Works Project       1994    Closed
CR. 2644    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  1994    Ongoing
CR 2778    Social Fund II (FID)                    1995    Ongoing
CR. 2968    Urban Infrastructure                   1997    Ongoing
CR. 3025    Rural Water Supply Project             1997    Ongoing
CR 3046    Education Sector Development            1998    Ongoing
CR. 3060    Community Nutrition II                 1998    Ongoing
CR. 3180    Social Fund III (FID)                  1999
Second Manpower Development            1999
Micro Finance Project                  1999



Statistical Annex                                                       Page 20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle        Date planned       Date actual / latest
estimate
Identification                                              Jul 1990
Preparation                                                 1990-1992
Appraisal                                                   Nov 1992
Negotiations                                                Jan 1993
Board Presentation                                        Mar 18, 1993
Signing                                                    Apr 9, 1993
Effectiveness                          Jul 1993            Jul 29, 1993
Midterm Review                        June 1996            Jun/Jul 1996
Project Completion                   Jan 31, 1998         June30, 1998
CreditClosing                        Jul 31, 1998          Dec 31,1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year                1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Appraisal Estimate            3.4    9.0   13.6    18.6   21.3    21.3
Actual                        2.9     6.4    13.9   17.8   18.7   17.8
Actual as % of Estimate     85.3   71.1   102.2   95.7   87.8    83.6
Date of Final Disbursement: November 13, 1998.
Note: Amount canceled: SDR 3,673,673.43 (US$ 4,981,684) on May 14, 1999.



Statistical Annex                                                          Page 21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation 1
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report Estimated      Actual
I. INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES COMPONENT __T_1
SOCIAL FUND (FID) SUB-COMPONENT                       I_T_1
1. Small Scale Infrastructure
Persons days of temporary employment                      1,904,000        1,913,00
Contracts with small enterprises                                91             431
2. Income generating activities contracts with NGOs               125             76
3. Pernanent jobs created through private sector support        1,900           300"
projects         _
URBAN FOOD-FOR-WORK SUB-COMPONENT
Number of beneficiaries                                        62,800         28,060
Persons days of employment                                  3,168,500       1,270,500
II. NUTRITION PROGRAM COMPONENT
Community Nutrition - Antananarivo
Population of target Fivondronana                           1,124,000       2,891,000
Number of new centers to be established                           100            282
Number of children in growth monitoring                      103,360'        261,538
Number of children in supplemental feeding                     15,300         42,233
Number of children referred for nutritonal rehabilitation       5,168           2164
Growth surveillancecoverage rate as percent of children 0-3  2% in 94      0.3% in 94
in target Fivondronana                                       7% in 95      1.5% in 95
Note: The actual refers to the coverage rate as percent of  23% in 96      4.7% in 96
children 0-3 in the province (faritany) and not in the target  45% in 97  14.2% in 97
Fivondronana.                                                             19.3% in 98
Percent reduction in malnutrition rate in target Fivondronana  1% in 95     10% in 95
Note: The actual refers to the reduction in malnutrition rate in  3% in 96  20% in 96
the target nutrition centers (sites). From the beginning of  8% in 97       15% in 97
activities on sites and March 1998, the reduction in                        53% in 98
malnutrition rate has been on average 58%.
Community Nutrition - Toliary
Population of target Fivondronana                             602,500       1,772,600
Number of new centers to be established                           150            253
Number of children in growth monitoring                       207,080        228,568
Number of children in supplemental feeding                     30,600         31,450
Number of children referred for nutritional rehabilitation     10,336           249'
1 Some of those indicators deal with both project implementation and project operation.
2Includes only the permanent jobs created by consulting finns, and not those created by small local
contractors and income generating activities.
3The targets of 103,360 for Antananarivo (and 207,080 for Toliary) are the sums of the annual targets.
The actual number of children in growth monitoring for each year includes those that were monitored
the previous year who are still participating in the program in the community nutrition centers or sites.
4Number of children referred for nutritional rehabilitation as of the end of the first semester 1998.



Statistical Annex                                                        Page 22
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report Estimated    Actual
II. NUTRITION PROGRAM COMPONENT (continued)
Community Nutrition - Toliary
Growth surveillance coverage rate as percent of children 0-3  27% in 94  2.3% in 94
in target Fivondronana                                  53% in 95       5.7% in 95
Note: The actual refers to the coverage rate as percent of  86% in 96   11.6% in 96
children 0-3 in the province (Faritany) and not in the target  126% in 97  20.6% in 97
Fivondronana                                                            29.5% in 98
Percent reduction in malnutrition rate in target Fivondronana  10% in 95  7% in 95
Note: The actual refers to the reduction in malnutrition rate in    19% in 96  9% in 96
the target nutrition centers (sites). From the beginning of  31% in 97   15% in 97
activities on sites and March 1998, the reduction in                     13% in 98
malnutrition rate has been on average 48%."
Iodine deficiency disorder control
Number of children receiving capsules                     876,000          620,160
Number of pregnant women receiving capsules               374,400          265,783
III. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
COMPONENT  _
IEC sub-component
KAP surveys and beneficiary assessments to develop nutrition            Done
messages                                        _
Launch national IEC campaign to communicate project                     Done
objectives                                            _
Second round beneficiary assessment surveys          ___________        Done
National food security strategy sub-component        _
Identify experts to support the Inter-ministerial Coordination     Actually, the
Committee (Comite Interminist6riel de Coordination du              strategy has been
Projet SECALINE - CICS) 6 for the preparation of the strategy.     prepared by the
experts that have
been identified
and recruited.
CICS presents draft strategy to Govermnent                         Done - strategy
was presented to
Government by
the BPS of
SECALINE
Government adopts strategy                                         Strategy adopted
by Government
in December
__________________________________________  __________1997.
5Number of children referred for nutritional rehabilitation as of the end of the first semester 1998.
6The CICS has not been operational because of changes in ministries.



Statistical Annex                                                  Page 23
Table 5 : Key Indicators for project Implementation (continued)
Sub-projects financed by FED
Type of sub-projects                         Number
Infrastructure
Schools                                  124
Health centers                           45
Water supply                             29
Other                                     1
Sub-total social infrastructure                      199
Micro irrigated perimeters (MPI)         54
Markets                                   8
Other                                     2
Sub-total productive infrastructure  j                64
Rural roads                              56
Bridges and other                        23
Sub-total transport infrastructure                    79
Environmental protection                               6
Total Infrastructure                                 348
Income Generating Activities                          36
Private Sector Support (training)                     10
GRAND TOTAL                                          394
Table 6: Key indicators for Project Operation
The SAR included only one set of project monitoring indicators, listed in Table 5, dealing
with both project implementation and project operation.



Statistical Annex                                                    Page 24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Description of study                                 Impact of Study
I. INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES
COMPONENT
Social fund (FID) sub-component
FID Implementation Manual, by Messrs. Yves    Allowed the FID to quickly
Dhont and Marc Van Imschoot (ILO consultants)    start the financing and
and Mr. Paul G6li (consultant) - 1992-1993    execution of infrastructure sub-
projects.
Diagnosis of sub-projects implemented by FID  Quality of studies undertaken
during its first year of operation and formulation of   by local consulting firms and of
training programs for small, local contractors and  works executed by small, local
consulting firms, by Marc Van Imschoot        contractors improved
(Consultant) - May 1994                       substantially in the field of rural
road construction and buildings
(schools, health centers, ...)
Manual of administrative and financial procedures,   Allowed the FID to follow
by FID staff - June 1994                      sound administrative and
financial procedures.
Operational manual for the implementation of sub-   Was very useful for FID
projects (identification, appraisal and execution) -    personnel for the processing of
Three volumes - by FID staff - September 1994.  requests from beneficiaries and
the implementation of sub-
_________________________________________________ projects.
Preparation of standard plans and drawings for  Facilitated the preparation of
buildings, by consulting firm BMET - September  bidding documents for sub-
1995                                          projects.
Ex-post evaluation of the achievements of FID, by    FID adjusted its operations
the "Societe d'Assistance Technique et de Gestion" -  based on the feedback from
SOATEG (Oct 95-Jan 96).                       beneficiaries.
Manual of Procedures - Income Generating      Allowed FID to start training
Activities, by Mr. Paul Geli, consultant - April 1997.  programs for its own staff and
NGOs, and to finance a
substantial program of income
generating activities.



Statistical Annex                                                 Page 25
Technical audit report, by Mr. Eddy Bynens,  FID implemented almost all the
consultant (April 1996). The technical audit  recommendations of the
reviewed the quality of the sub-projects financed by  technical audit, which
FID, checked that FID complied with the provisions  contributed to an improvement
of its manual of procedures and included    in the efficiency and
recommendations to improve the operation of FID.   effectiveness of FID.
Urban food-for-work sub-component
Study of the impact of the labor intensive food-for-   Provided an inventory of all the
work project, by the "Ecole Superieure des Sciences  works undertaken (types,
Agronomiques - Agro-management department    volume, and number of
(January 1998).                              beneficiaries) and an
assessment of their impact on
beneficiaries.
HI. NUTRITION PROGRAM COMPONENT
Community nutrition Program (PCN) sub-
component
KAP survey on breast feeding, the feeding of young   The information collected and
children and pregnant women and evaluation of the   analyzed was used for the
nutritional status of children in the provinces of  preparation of messages for
Antananarivo and Toliary, by Dr. Colette Rabenja,   nutrition education.
consultant (January 1994).
Report on a participatory evaluation by the  Was used to modify and adjust
beneficiaries of the PCN in six fivondronana, by the  the communication methods
firm SEDRIC (April 1996).                    and messages, which were not
always appropriate for the
targeted adult population.
Evaluation of nutritional education - Survey carried   Provided useful information to
out by students of the University of Madagascar  assess the effectiveness of the
(September 1997).                            community nutrition program,
and to develop actions to
promote the sustainability of
the program.
Survey on the feeding of young children in PCN  Provided information on the
centers in Toliary, by the Regional Coordinator  attitude and opinions of
Office (September 1997).                     mothers with respect to breast
feeding and weaning, which
was used for the preparation of
more efficient and convincing
messages.
Iodine deficiency sub-component



Statistical Annex                                                   Page 26
Feasibility study of the iodization of salt in  Allowed for the universal
Madagascar, by Mr. Lamine Meftah, UNICEF      iodization of salt in
consultant (November 1993).                   Madagascar, in accordance with
decree 95-587 of September 5,
1995 which made such
iodization compulsory.
Im. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
SUPPORT COMPONENT
IEC sub-component                             ___
Preparation of a SECALINE IEC strategy and plan,   Provided SECALINE with an
by Mr. Michel Andrien, consultant - Oct/Nov 1992   IEC strategy, aimed at linking
the LEC activities for all the
components. However, its
implementation suffered from
the non-availability of the
consultant. Local consultants
are better suited to undertake
X____________________________________________ grassroots IEC activities.
National food security strategy sub-component
National food security strategy, prepared by  Adopted by Government decree
SECALINE and Malagasy consultants - 7         No. 97-1353 on December 4,
documents - 1997                              1997, as the Government policy
on food security. To be used as
a basis for all actions and
research on food security.
Miscellaneous
Manual of administrative and financial procedures    Provided a useful guide for the
(Manuel de Procedures Internes) for SECALINE,    management of the Project and
by the BPS - 1994.                            of SECALINE personnel, in
accordance with World Bank
procedures and Malagasy
I legislation.



Statistical Annex                                                  Page 27
Table 8: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components               Appraisal    Actual/Latest
Estimate      Estimate
FID sub-projects                                10.8           10.8
Urban Food-for-work                             7.3            7.9
Community nutrition - Toliary                   3.6            3.2
Community nutrition - Antananarivo              1.9            2.8
Iodine deficiency                               0.7            0.9
IEC and food security strategy                   1.1           0.7
Project management                               1.1           1.5
PPF and Japan grant                             2.0             1.0
Sub-total base costs                           28.5           28.3
Physical contingencies                           1.2
Price contingencies                             2,7
Total Project Costs (excluding taxes and duties)  32.4        28.8



StatisticalAnnex                                                          Page 28
Table 9: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                        Appraisal    Actual/Latest
Estimate        Estimate
Government - counterpart funds                        1.7             1.1
IDA                                                 21.3             17.2'
World Food program                                   7.3              9.2
UNICEF                                               0.4              0.4
Japan                                                0.5              0.5
Beneficiaries                                         1.2             0.4
Total                                               32.4             28.8
Table 10: Economic Cost and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project.
There are no data available to calculate a posteriori the economic rates of return or the cost
effectiveness of the investments that were actually financed under the Project.
7 Including US$0.5 million equivalent spent for project preparation.
8 The amount of financing was revised and increased to US$ 12.275 million equivalent (Second
amendment to Plan of Operations of WFP).



Statistical Annex                                                                                                Page 29
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
2.02(b)     1,3        C      Continuous   Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special
deposit account in the name of BPS (the BPS Special
Account) and a special deposit account in the name of
FID (the FID special account) in a commercial bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to be
operated in accordance with Schedule 5 of DCA.
3.01 (a)    3, 4, 5    C      Continuous   (i) Borrower declares its commitment to project
objectives; Borrower shall carry out the urban food-
for-work sub-component, the nutrition program, and
the institutional development support components of
the project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shal provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such parts of the project.
(ii) Borrower shall cause FID to perform all its
obligations under the Project Agreement, shaU take or
cause to be taken all actions, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FID to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
3.01 (b)     5         C      Continuous   Borrower shaU carry out the urban food-for-work sub-
component, the nutrition program and the institutional
development support components of the project in
accordance with the lmplementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to the DCA.



Statistical Annex                                                                                               Page 30
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
3.01 (c)     3         C      Continuous   Borrower shall make available to FID, on a grant  The execution of the
basis, the proceeds of the IDA credit allocated to the   Convention was a condition
social fund (FID) sub-component under a Convention  of effectiveness of the IDA
to be entered into between the Borrower and FID, on   credit. The Convention was
terms and conditions which shall have been approved  executed on May 4, 1993.
by IDA.
3.01 (d)     5         C      Continuous   Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and IDA and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as IDA shall
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Convention or any provision thereof.
3.01 (e)     4         C      Continuous   Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available   The making of the initial
its contribution to the Project, open and maintain in a  contributions into the two
commercial bank: (i) in the name of the BPS for the   accounts was a condition of
urban food-for-work sub-component, the nutrition  effectiveness of the IDA
program and the institutional development support    credit.
component of the Project, a separate account and
make an initial contribution of the equivalent of
$75,000 into such account; and (ii) in the name of FID
for the social fund (FID) sub-component of the
Project, a separate account and make an initial
contribution of the equivalent of $75,000 into such
account; said accounts to be replenished at least on a
quarterly basis or whenever their respective balance
shall be less than the equivalent of $25,000 up to the
amount of the initial contribution.



Statistical Annex                                                                                               Page 31
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
3.02      5. 10       C     Continuous   (a) Procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA).
(b) Borrower shall, through the BPS, employ a
specialized consulting firm or agency, satisfactory to
IDA, to assist in the execution of the urban food-for-
work sub-component of the Project.
4.01 (a)     1         C      Continuous   Borrower shal maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the urban
food-for-work sub-component, the nutrition program
and the institutional development support component
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the project or
any part thereof.
4.01 (b)     1         C      By June 30    Borrower shall have the records and accounts     Date          Year
of each year,  (including the BPS special account) audited by  Received
for the     independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and shaU
preceding    furnish to IDA, not later than six months after the end    06-30-93  1992
year.        of each fiscal year, the report of such audit by said  06-29-94  1993
auditors.                                       06-30-95       1994
06-15-96       1995
06-10-97       1996
06-19-98       1997



Statistical Annex                                                                                               Page 32
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment              Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type     Status       date
4.01 (c)     1         C     Continuous.  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the credit account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, Borrower shall (i)
maintain records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain them until at least one year
after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the credit
account or payment out of the BPS special account
was made; (iii) enable IDA representatives to examine
such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.01    1,3, 4, 5,   C      Conditions of (a) The Convention has been executed on behalf ofthe Credit was made effective on
and 10            effectiveness  Borrower and FID; (b) the manual of procedures,  July 29, 1993.
satisfactory to the Borrower and IDA, has been
adopted by FID; (c) accounting and financial
management systems have been set up; (d) auditors
have been appointed for a period of three years; (e)
initial contributions have been made into the two
project accounts; (f) the monitoring and evaluation
specialist at the national level has been employed by
the BPS; and (g) the executive director and the two
regional directors of FID have been appointed.



StatisticalAnnex                                                                                                   Page 33
Section     Cove  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                      Comments
nant   Status      date
Type
Schedule 4 to     5      C      Continuous   1. Overall Project execution and coordination
DCA                                          - At the national level, the Comite Inter-ministeriel de
Implementation                               Coordination du Projet SECALINE (CICS), chaired by
Program                                      a national coordinator, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA, shall be responsible for
the overall coordination of project activities and
liaising with FID. The national coordinator shall be
assisted by the Bureau d'Execution du Projet
SECALINE (BPS) which shall be staffed at all times
with the following personnel, all with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA: an office director,
an administrative and financial officer, an accounting
officer, an IEC specialist and a monitoring and
evaluation specialist. The BPS shall also be staffed
with adequate support staff.
- At the regional level, in each of the provinces of
Antananarivo and Toliary, a regional coordinator,
reporting to the national coordinator, shall be
responsible for the coordination of project activities
and liaising with FID, and shall be assisted at all times
with an IEC specialist, a specialist in community
nutrition and an accountant, all with qualification sand
experience satisfactory to IDA; he shall also be assisted
by adequate support staff.



Statistical Annex                                                                                                  Page 34
Section      Covenant  Present  Fulfillment                     Description of Covenant                     Comments
__________  Type   Status      date
Schedule 4 to       9          C     Continuous    1. Overall Project execution and coordination (continued)
DCA                                                The regional coordinator shall be responsible in particular for
Implementation                                     ensuring the execution of the community nutrition program with
Program                                            due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with a Livret du
Programme Communautaire de Nutrition (PCN), satisfactory to
IDA, and with the assistance of qualified NGOs and community
nutrition agents.
Schedule 4 to       9          C     By Sep 30 of  2. Project review
DCA                                  each year     (a) Borrower shall fumnish to IDA for its review and approval
detailed work programs and budgets for the Project for the
following year, and an evaluation report of project activities
undertaken during the previous July 1 to June 30 12-month
period.
Schedule 4 to       9          C     By Jun 30    (b) Borrower shal carry jointly with IDA and with the
DCA                                   1996         participation of FID a midtenn review of project and shall
implement the recommendations of such a review.
XThere was one supplemental letter to the DCA, listing the aiinual performance indicators for the Project. Those indicators a-re referred i  ati 
tables 5 and 6, and discussed in the main text of the Implementation Completion report (ICR) .l
Covenant types:
1 = Accounts/audits.                         8 = Indigenous people.                 Present status:
2 = Financial perfonnance/revenue generation  9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
from beneficiaries.                         10 = Project implementation not covered by  C = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  categories 1-9.                          CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                    11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or   CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or    other resource allocation..             NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                     12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Environmental covenants.                policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.               13 = Other.



Statistical Annex                                                                                                Page 35
Table 12: Status of Legal Covenants in the Project Agreement
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
2.01 (a)    3, 4, 5     C     Continuous   (i) FID declares its commitmentto project objectives
and shaU carry out the social fund (FID) sub-
component of the project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public
works practices, and shaUl cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such part of the project.
2.01 (b)    5, 10       C     Continuous   FID shall carry out the social fund (FID) sub-
component of the project in accordance with the
Manual of Procedures.
2.02       10         C     Continuous   Procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the social fund (FID) sub-
component of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shal be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA).
2.04        5         C     Continuous   FID shaU duly perform all its obligations under the
Convention and the Manual of procedures. Except as
IDA shall otherwise agree, FID shaU not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Convention, the Manual of Procedures or any
_____ _    ___ _____ ______   __provision  thereof.



StatisticalAnnex                                                                                                Page 36
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
2.06 (a)     9         C      By Sept. 30   FID shall prepare the programs, budgets and reports
of each year  with respect to the social fund (FID) sub-component
of the Project, referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4
to the DCA.
2.06 (b)     9         C      By Jun 30    FID shaU participate in the midterm review of the
1996         Project and implement the recommendations of such a
review within its competence.
3.01      5,10        C     Continuous   FID shall cany on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineeing and public works practices and
with the Manual of Procedures, under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers, including an
executive director and a regional director in each of
the FID offices of the Provinces of Antananarivo and
Toliaiy, all with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA.
4.01 (a)     1         C      Continuous   FID shaU maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.



Statistical Annex                                                                                                   Page 37
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment                 Description of Covenant                     Comments
l   Type      Status       date
4.01 (b)      I         C      By June 30    (i) FID shall have its records, accounts and financial  Date      Year
of each year,  statements (balance sheets, statements of income and    Received
for the      expenses and related statements) and the records and
preceding    accounts for the FID Special Account, for the fist six-  06-30-1993  1992
year.        month period for each three months, and thereafter for  06-29-1994  1993
each six-months, audited, in accordance with        n.a.       1st half 1994
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,    06-30-1995   2d half 1994
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;          n.a.       I5t half 1995
(ii) FID shall have its administrative, technical and  06-15-1996   2d half 1995
managerial performance for each fiscal year audited,  n.a.     Ist half 1996
with comments on its compliance with the provision    07-07-1997   2d half 1996
of this agreement, the Convention, the Statutesand the  01-22-1998   1st half 1997
Manual of Procedures by the auditors referred to
above; and
(iii) FID shall funish to IDA, not later than three
months after the end of each such period, certified
copies of its financial statements and the report of
_______  _______ _   ______   ___such audit by  said auditors.



Statistical Annex                                                                                              -.------_Page 38
Section   Covenant   Present | Fulfillment                Description of Covenant             I        Co- mIenits
Type      Status       date
4.01 (c)      I          C     Continuous    For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the credit account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, FID shall (i)
maintain records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain them until at least one year
after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the credit
account or payment out of the FID Special Account
was made; (iii) enable IDA representatives to examine
such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their prepaxation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
There was one supplemental letter t the DCA, listing the annual performance indicators for the Project. Those indicators are referred in p
in tables 5 and 6, and discussed in the main text of the Implementation Completion report (ICR).
Covenant types:
1 = Accounts/audits.                      8 = Indigenous people.                     Present status:
2 = Financial performnance/revenue         9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.       10 = Project implementation not covered by  C = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  categonies 1-9.                           CD = Complied witi after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                    11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or    CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation..                 NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Enviromnental covenants.              policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.              13 = Other.



Statistical Annex                                                   Page 39
Table 13: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title         Describe and comment on lack of
I         ~~~compliance
Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or OP/BP) have been substantially complied
with.
Table 14: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Staff weeks                   US$ '000
Stage of    Orig.    Rev.    Actuals    Orig.   Rev. Plan   Actuals
Project Cycle   Plan    Plan                Plan
SWs    SWs        SWs       $'000      $'000     $'000
Preparation to
Appraisal      N.A.    N.A.      141.2      N.A.       N.A.      294.2
Appraisal      N.A.    N.A.       99.8      N.A.       N.A.      274.1
Negotiations
through Board
Approval       N.A.    N.A.       11.3      N.A.       N.A.       33.4
Supervision    94.6    83.0       79.2      236.2     273.3      265.2
Completion      6.3      7.2       6.6       17.4       31.5      15.7
TOTAL       100.9    90.2     338.1      253.6     304.8      882.6
Source: FACT



Statistical Annex                                                                    Page 40
Table 15: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month       Number   Days    Specialized staff    Performance Rating        Types
Cycle          [Year         of        in     skills represented                            of
Persons   Field                                               Problems
Implemen   Develop-
ment
tation    Objectives
Stau
Through            Several
appraisal         missions in
1991 and
1992
Appraisal           11/92          6        16    EC, IMP, IEC,
_  _           ~~~NUT, FA, MIS_
Supervision 1       7/93          7         14    EC,                                        None
Supevision 2       10-11/93        3        13    NUT, IMP, IEC                              None
Supevision 3        3/94          3         12    EC, NUT, IMP            S           S      None
Supervision 4      7-8/94         3         25    NUT, IMP, SF                               None
Supervision 5       4-5/95        4         20    EC, LEC, IMP, MIS      HS          HS      None
Supervision 6       6-7/95        3         22    EC, NUT, PO            HS          HS      None
Supervision 7      11-12/95       5         17    PO, NUT, SF, IMP,       S           S      None
MIS         _
Superision 8        6/96           3        18    PO, NUT, PRO            S           S      None
Supervision 9      11-12/96        2        20    PO, NUT                 S           S      None
Supervision 10      7-8/97        2         14    PO, NUT                 S           S       None
Supervision 11       2/98          3        5    PO, NUT             ____None'
Supervision 12      12/98         2      __       PO, NUT                                     None
Completion
Key to secialized staff skills
CO   =    Country Officer                             EC   =      Economist
PO   =    Project Officer                             IMP  =      Imlementation Specialist
NUlT  =    Nutritionist                               SF   =      Social Fund Specialist
IEC   =    IEC Specialist                             FA    =     Financial analyst
MIS  =    MIS Specialist                              FOS  =      Food Security Specialist
PRO  =    Procurement Specialist
Key to erformance rating              HU
HS = Highly Satisfactory        HU = Highly Satisfactory               NR = Not Rated
U = Unsatisfactory               S = Satisfactory



ANNEX A
AIDE-ME'MOIRE



BANQUE MONDIALE
PROJET SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE ET NUTRITION
SECALINE - CREDIT 2474-MAG
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE LA MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
(AVRIL 1999)
Introduction
1.  Par e-mail et videoconference, Mme Eileen Murray, Charg6 de projet, a dirige de
Washington la mission d'ach6vement du Proj et SECALINE fmance par le credit 2474-MAG
qui a ete cl6ture le 31 decembre 1998. La mission, qui comprenait aussi Paul G6li
Consultant, avait pour but de faire le point sur l'achevement des activites prevues dans le
projet, et en particulier de valider les conclusions et reconmmandations du projet de rapport
d'ach6vement en date du 18 mars 1999 qui avait 6te soumis a la partie Malgache pour avis et
approbation.
Principales conclusions
2.   La partie Malgache est d'accord avec les principales conclusions et recommandations
du proj et de rapport d'achbvement, et n'a pas d'objection a ce que ce rapport soit soumis au
Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale et fasse l'objet d'une large diffusion.
Resultats du Projet
3.   Le projet avait pour objectif de reduire l'insecurite alimentaire et la malnutrition dans
les deux provinces malgaches les plus touchees par ces probl6mes (Antananarivo et Toliary),
par le biais d'activites generatrices de revenu et de programmes de nutrition cibles. La lutte
contre la pauvrete 6tait l'objectif prioritaire du programme d'assistance de la Banque ; une
croissance soutenue etait necessaire mais pas suffisante pour reduire la pauvrete, et les
menages les plus pauvres devaient faire l'objet d'une protection ciblee.
4.   Les resultats du projet sont satisfaisants dans l'ensemble, ce qui tient en grande partie a
sa souplesse et a sa capacite d'adaptation. Mais la r6ussite du projet est avant tout imputable
aux Malgaches qui ont participe au projet et aux pauvres auxquels il etait destine. Le suivi
etroit de la gestion du projet montre que, entre le demarrage des sites et mars 1998, le taux de
malnutrition dans les centres ou sites communautaires de nutrition vises a diminue en
moyenne de 5 8 % dans la province d'Antananarivo et de 48 % dans la province de Toliary.
Le sous-volet (<Vivres contre travail»> a distribue des rations alimentaires aux habitants les
plus pauvres de la zone metropolitaine d'Antananarivo, et les operations du FID ont injecte
des fonds importants dans les zones rurales du pays, dont on peut pr6sumer qu'une partie au
moins a servi a acheter des vivres. Sur le plan national, l'impact du projet a ete limite, car il



semble que pour l'ensemble de la population l'acces a la nourriture n'a pas augmente mais
plut6t diminue et que pour l'ensemble des enfants le taux de malnutrition est reste a peu pres
le meme, ou s'est meme legerement aggrave. En fait, l'objectif du projet aurait du preciser
qu'il s'agissait de reduire l'insecurite alimentaire et la malnutrition pour les groupes cibles
dans les deux provinces d'Antananarivo et Toliary. Faute de croissance soutenue, le projet a
tout au plus contribue A freiner la degradation globale de la situation des menages et des
enfants, mais les actions menees n'ont pas ete d'une envergure suffisante pour avoir vraiment
un impact sur l'insecurite alimentaire et la malnutrition pour l'ensemble de la population.
Neanmoins, le succes du programme communautaire de nutrition dans les sites selectionnes a
jete les bases d'un programme plus amrni'tieux dans les six provinces. L'un des aspects les
plus interess ants de ce volet est le lien etroit entre l'IEC, la nutrition et le developpement
communautaire. A la suite du programme de lutte contre les troubles dus aux carences en
iode (TDCI), le taux de goitre chez les femmes enceintes et les enfants scolarises a diminue
de 45 % en 1992 A 15 % en 1998, ce qui represente une baisse sensible. Le FID a eu un
impact tres positif dans les regions rurales pauvres ; au fil des annees il est devenu
l'instrument de choix des pouvoirs publics pour mettre en ceuvre la strategie de
developpement rural. Le sous-volet <<Vivres contre travail>> a foumi un appui aux elements
les plus pauvres de la population urbaine (la majorite sont des femmes chef de famille) en
leur distribuant des rations alimentaires en echange de travaux d'assainissement dans leurs
quartiers. La Strategie Nationale de Securite Alimentaire (SNSA) a ete adoptee par le
Gouvernement en decembre 1997 et sert de base a toutes les actions et recherches en matiere
de securite alimentaire.
Principales lerons et raisons du succes du Projet
5.   Le rapport d'achevement identifie un certain nombre de lecons que l'on peut tirer de
1' execution du present projet de securite alimentaire et de nutrition. Elles ont et prises en
compte dans la conception des projets FID II et III et du Deuxieme Projet Communautaire de
Nutrition (SECALINE). L'approche SECALINE a egalement guide la conception du proj et
communautaire de nutrition au Senegal et du projet de securite alimentaire et de nutrition au
B enin.
6.   Le projet a fortement beneficie du fait qu'il etait exterieur a l'appareil gouvememental
traditionnel, qu'il a collabore etroitement avec les communautes et a fait largement appel aux
ONG. C'etait l'un des premiers projets de ce type finances par l'IDA et le premier projet de
cette envergure realise a Madagascar en collaboration avec les communautes et les ONG.
Une conclusion importante est que le projet a clairement demontre les avantages de cette
approche a une echelle beaucoup plus vaste que celle des experiences pilotes anterieures. Le
fait qu'il existait un plan d'execution relativement bien prepare a 6galement favoris6 le
projet. Dans le cadre de la strategie SECALINE, les communaut6s villageoises se sont
trouvees au cceur de toutes les activites du projet, a la fois comme principaux responsables de
leur ex6cution et comme b6n6ficiaires directs. La strat6gie et le programme IEC congus et
mis en oeuvre par des Malgaches qui connaissaient bien et comprenaient les us et coutumes
locaux ont ete tres efficaces a peu de frais. Le projet est essentiellement un projet Malgache
qui a ete mene A bien par les Malgaches sans assistance technique exterieure A long terme.
Enfin, le projet a recu l'appui enthousiaste des dirigeants politiques de Madagascar qui ont
2



pr6sente le projet comme une initiative malgache et non comme un projet financ6 par la
Banque mondiale ; le Gouvemement, et en particulier le Premier Ministre, ont 6nergiquement
soutenu la SECALINE et le FID, sans intervenir dans la gestion de leurs activit6s courantes.
La collaboration etroite avec les autres bailleurs de fonds a 6galement contribu6 a la reussite
du projet.
Dernier audit des comptes du projet
7.  II a ete convenu que le Projet SECALINE soumettrait a la Banque Mondiale, avant le
30 juin 1999, le dernier audit des comptes du projet couvrant l'annee 1998 et les reliquats de
depenses effectu6es dans les premiers mois de 1999.
3



ANNEX B
BORROWER ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION



RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET SECALINE PAR L'EMPRUNTEUR
INTRODUCTION
La SECALINE est un Projet dont l'objectif est de participer a la lutte contre la pauvrete de
facon durable.
Pour nous, la lutte contre la pauvrete est un concept multi-sectoriel qui commence par des
theories et souhaits et qui devrait se traduire par des actions concretes et combinees , des
actions destin6es A atteindre des objectifs d6fmis au pr6alable.
Dans ce cadre general le Projet SECALINE, a eu pour mission de lutter contre l'ins6curit6
alimentaire et la malnutrition, premiers elements de la pauvrete a combattre, si l'on veut
commencer les actions contre la pauvret6. Une composante qui doit etre suivie par d'autres
composantes s'occupant de l'6education, de la sante ,des revenus pour tous et de
l'environnement en general de la population. La question qui se pose lorsqu'on arrive au
terme du Projet est la suivante, la SECALINE a-t-elle apporte quelque chose pour le peuple
malgache ? A-t-elle realise son mandat?
Subdivise en six composantes dont deux pour le renforcement nutritionnel, deux pour la
promotion de l'emploi et du travail et deux pour le renforcement institutionnel, nous
estimons que les actions de la SECALINE se sont adressees directement a la population
malgache et que ses mandats ont ete realises.
Ci-dessous les six composantes de la SECALINE
Renforcement nutritionnel:
Programme communautaire de nutrition      |
<<PCN>) pour deux provinces Antananarivo et                 d44Q 
Toliary - creation de 532 sites
Lutte contre les troubles dus  la carence en iode composante realisee , poursuivie par le
par  operation  nationale  d'iodation  du  sel Ministere de la Sante en realisation, contr6le e
malgache.                                  suivi .
Renforcement de 1'emploi et du travail:
Fonds d'interventions pour le Developpement devenu FID N°2 projet MAG - 2778.
FID  NWI>  operant  dans  deux  provinces ind6pendant par rapport A la SECALINE opere
Antananarivo et Toliary                    dans les six provinces.
Transfert de vivres aux plus demunis de la Ces  travaux  d'assainissement  devront  etre
Capitale par Travaux A Haute Intensite de Main poursuivis par la Mairie de la Capitale qui a cree
d'(Euvre sous systeme Vivres contre Travail avec l'aide du projet-Banq/Mond-BPPA  deux
<<HMONCTh)                                 societes privees SAMVA et APIPA.
Renforcement institutionnel:
I-nformation Education Communication ((IEC)                       ara 
activites nationales s'adressant an toute la I .
population
Strategie Nationale de S6curite Nationale <(SNSA) Composante r6alis6e totalement, adoptee par
elaboration de documents par des nationaux.  d6cret N°97-1353 par le Gouvemement comme
politique de securite alimentaire du pays et comme
base de toutes activites et etudes en matiere de
strategie de securite alimentaire.



Ainsi nous pouvons constater que sur les six composantes, quatre sont terminees et realisees et deux
seront poursuivies car considerees comme indispensables et necessaires pour le pays. (Nous avons
present6 ces six composantes dans les tableaux ci-dessus, les deux composantes qui subsistent sont
dans des cases plus foncees).
Ce rapport conceme toutes les activites sauf la lutte anti-acridienne. Mais l1'pargne faite par le Projet
n'est utilisable seulement que jusqu'au 31 Decembre 1998, date de cloture du Projet.
Nous etions 6tonnes que la composante HIMO/VCT n'a pu etre poursuivie car elle a et6 tres salutaire
pour la population pauvre de la zone urbaine du Gra-nd Antananarivo et ces resultats sont pour nous
positifs. Cette composante aurait pu etre etendue dans les grandes villes sous une autre forme
(monnaie contre travail) si la gestion de vivres est trop lourde.
000000000000000
2



A) - RAPPEL ET EVALUATION DES OBJECTIPS DU PROJET
Nos activites sont principalement basees sur le rapport d'evaluation du 18 fevrier 1993 et I'accord de
credit du 09 Avril 1993.
OBJECTIFS PREVISIONNELS                OBJECTIFS        OBJECTIFS
PREVUS          REALISES
Programme PCN - Province d'Antananarivo
Population/lFivondronana cibles               1 124 369      2 891 000
Nombre de centres a creer                         100             282
Nombre d'enfants suivis/croissance             103 360          79 816 (1
Nomb/enfts/alimenta°complementaire              15 300         42 233
Nomb/enfts/rehabilita°nutrition                  5 168            216 (2)
Taux de couvert/suivi/croissance 0 a 5ans         45%            88,7%
Taux de reduction de malnutrition                  8%            58,1% (3)
Programme PCN- Province de Toliary
Population/Fivondronana cibles                602 537        1 772 610
Nombre de centres a creer                         150             253
Nombre d'enfants suivis/croissance            207 080           71 231 '
Nomb/enfts/alimenta°complementaire              30 600          31 450
Nomb/enfts/r6habilita°nutrition                 10 336            249 (2)
Taux de couvert/suivi/croissance 0 a 5 ans       126%          75,88%
Taux de reduction de malnutrition                 31%          48,4%  (3)
Lutte contr/troubles dus a la carence en lode
Nomb/enfts recevant capsules iodees          876 000         620 160
Nomb/fem/enceintlrecev/capsl/iod6es          374 400         265 783
Ponds d'interventions pour Develop/FID n°l
Petites infrastructures:
a) Hom/jours emploi temporaire               1 904 000       1 912 824
b)Marches avec PME                           91              431
Contrats avec les ONG pour AGR               125             76
Emplois permanents appui secteur prive        1900           300(4)
Programme urbain Vivres contre travail:
Nombre de beneficiaires                      62 807         28 059
Hommes-jours d'emploi                        3 168 487      1 270 500
Information Education Communication IEC
Enqu8tes CAP ben6ficiaires                                   realis6
Lancement campagne IEC objectifs Projet                      realise
2eme tour enqu8tes beneficiaires                             realise
Strategie Nationale Securite Alimentaire SNSA:               Le CICS institu6
Identification institutions pour appui CICS,                 n'a pu travailler ai
cause de
changements/
Adoption de la SNSA par le Gouvemement                       Ministeres
Adoption/Gouv
___________________________________________ ______________ Dec-1997
(1) Enfants suivis encore presents dans les sites au 31 mars 1998.
Les chiffTes previsionnels de 103360 enfants suivis pour la province d'Antananarivo et 207080 pour la
province de Tulear resultent de la sommation pure et simple des objectifs annuels. Or, les chiffres des
3



enfants suivis de chaque ann6e incluent ceux de P'ann6e pr6cedente encore presents dans les sites, d'oui la
non adequation de la sommation. Si l'on devait raisonner ainsi, les chiffres d'enfants suivis seraient les
suivants:
Antananarivo          261 538
Toliara               228 568
(2) Nombre d'enfants referes et traites aux CRT pendant le premier trimestre 1998.
(3) Taux de malnutrition moyens, au demarrage des sites et en fin de projet (mars 1998):
Demarrage            Mars 1998          Reduction
Antananarivo         43,13%                18,08%             58,1%
Tulear               26,07%                13,46%             48,4%
Les taux de demarrage ci-dessus indiqu6s sont relatifs et doivent etre interpret6s avec circonspection dans
la mesure oui il s'agit de taux moyens pour des sites ouverts a des epoques differentes.
(4) Evaluation emplois permanents crees par BE n'inclut pas ceux des MPE et des AGR.
4



PROJET SECALINE
Coordination Regionale
TOLIARA
ENFANTS SUIVIS AUX SITES PCN
SYNTHESE PAR FIVONDRONANA
STrUATION SITES SECALINE
ENQUETE                      AU DEMARRAGE                                     MARS 1998               ENF. < 3
ANS
FIVONDRONANA                 CAP 93   ANNEE    NB         TAUX    ENFANTS   ENFANTS    NB   TAUX ENFANTS ENFANTS RECENSES
SITES  MALNUT    SUMIS   MALNUTRIS SITES MALN   SUIVIS  MALNUTR  INSTAT 98
.______                           UT                  IS          _
1. PROVINCE DE TOLIARA
TOLIARA I                                      Mars 94   6           25,16       1 594         401   17    9,93        8 295        824        8 561
TOLIARA II                           51,2      Mars 94    5          18,51        578          107   37    11,60       7 843        910       19 549
TSIHOMBE                                       Mars 94   4           15,50        955          148   20    8,57        5 774        495        5 998
BETIOKY-SUD                                    Mars 94    1          16,67        108           18   12    13,73       2 389        328       17 440
AMBOVOMBE                            46,5      Mars 94    3          14,37        835          120   24    20,45       8 123       1 661      16 028
AMBOASARY-SUD                                  Mars 94    2          35,00        820          287   6    15,08        3 700        558       14 547
AMPANIHY                             39,5      Mars 94    5          18,09        890          161   33    6,48        8 456        548       19 533
BELOHA                                         Mars 94    3          20,82        538          112   14    7,15        4 252        304        5 753
MAHABO                                          Oct 95    3          35,69        678          242   7    12,93        1 655        214        8755
MIANDRIVAZO                                     Oct 95    3          43,08        694          299   6    16,22        1 856        301        8 981
MORONDAVA                                       Oct 95    3          27,83       1 024         285    8      7,24      2 391        173        8 042
BELO/TSIRIBI:HINA                               Oct 95    3          29,97        734          220    6      8,91      1 515        135        5 413
TOLAGNARO                                       Oct 95    3          36,05        932          336   9    27,85        2 862        797       22 973
BETROKA                                        Mars 96   3           16,04        505           81   6      12,56      2 540        319       13 185
SAKARAHA                                      Mars 96   3            23,09        537          124   5    12,00        1142         137        6 093
MOROIBE                                        Mars 96    3          32,43        737          239   6    16,08        1 679        270       10 430
MANJA                                          Mars 96   3           20,18        654          132   5    16,75        1182         198        6 081
BEKILY                               50,7      Mars 96   3           29,69        751          223   10    25,19       2 616        659       12 064
ANTANIMORA                                     Mars 97               38,21        806          308   3    31,44        1075         338
BEROROHA                                       Mars 97   3           19,98        991          198   4    17,91        1 312        235        4 097
BENENITSE                                      Mars 97   3           21,07        712          150   4    32,06          574         184
ANKAZOABO-ATSIMO                                                                                                                               4 618
SAKARAHA                                                                                                                                       6 093
TOTAL                                                    65          26,07     16 073        4 191  242   13,46       71231        9588      224234
TAUX DE COUVERTURE SECALINE DANS LE FARITANY DE TOLIARA (Mars 98) = 31,77%
REDUCTION DU TAUX DE MALNUTRITION DEPUIS LE DEMARRAGE DES SITES JUSQU'A MARS 1998: 48,4%
5



PROJET SECALINE
Coordination Regionale
ANTANANARIVO
ENFANTS SUIVIS AUX SITES PCN
SYNTIIESE PAR FIVONDRONANA
SITUATION SITES SECALINE
ENQUETE                         AU DEMARRAGE                                          MARS 1998                  ENF. < 3 ANS
FIVONDRONANA              CAP 93      ANNEE    NB          TAUX    ENFANTS   ENFANTS             NB      TAUX   ENFANTS   ENFANTS   RECENSES
SITES   MALNUT    SUMVIS   MALNUTRIS   SITES MALNUT   SU"VIS   MALNUTRIS INSTAT 98
1. PROVINCE
D'ANTANANARIVO
ANTANANARIVO                   49.0     Mars 94       2        70,33        337          237         24      16,49          5714         1047       19 438
AVARADRANO
AMBOHIDRATRIMO                 45.6    Mars 94        2        43,03        251          108         25      13,08         7059           923       22 674
ANKAZOBE                       62.9    Mars 96        3        46,71        386          270          9      16,32         2679           487       13 344
ARIVONIMAMO                             Mars 94       2        48,71        236          113         19      13,00         6132          797        28 251
MANJAKANDRIANA                          Mars 96       2        34,18        392          134          7      15,93          2135          340       19 050
ANJOZOROBE                              Mars 96       2        44,17        240          106          8      8,69           1957          170       16 903
ANTSIRABE I                             Mars 94       2        53,37        185          98          25      24,23          6561         1590       13 424
BETAFO                                  Mars 96       3        51,89        528          274         22      27,09          6930         1877       34 152
AMBATOLAMPY                             Mars 96       2        43,01        286          123          7      18,11         2115           383       23 798
TSIROANOMANDIDY                         Mars 96       3        35,02        987          344          8      11,59          2415          280       20 622
MIARINARIVO                             Mars 96       3        20,16        759          153          8      11,07          3343          370       24786
SOAVINANDRIANA                          Sept 96       4        34,12        674         230           8      20,65         2160           446       17 287
ANTANIFOTSY                             Mars 96       2        48,61        251          122         24      20,69         7274          1505       31 844
ANDRAMASINA                             Mars 96       3        45,32        481          218          7      19,10          2262          432       14 620
FARATSIHO                                                                                                                                           18 805
ANTANANARIVO                            Mars 94       2         70          181          126         25      15,20          8264         1303       27 796
ATSIMONDRANO
ANTSIRABEII                    53.9     Mars 95       3         48          135          65          31      21,26         10442         2220       36 827
FENOARIVO CENTRE                        Mars 96       3         71          485          209          8      12,42          2374          257       10 031
TOTAL                                                41        43,13       6 794        2 930        258     18,08        79 816       14 427      393 652
TAUX DE COUVERTURE SEC ALINE DANS LE FARITANY D'ANTANANARIVO (Mdars 98) 2 20,28%
REDUCTION DU TAUX DE MALNUTRITION DEPUIS LE DEMARRAGE DES SITES JUSQU'A MARS 1998: 58,1%
6



B) - EVALUATION DE LA MESURE DANS LAQUELLE LES OBJECTIFS ONT ETE
ATTEINTS
Dans la description du Projet (Annexe 2 de l'accord de cr6dit), il est 6crit:
f"Les objectifs du Projet sont de reduire l'insecurite alimentaire et la malnutrition dans les>
<<Provinces d 'Antananarivo et de Toliary du territoire de I 'Emprunteur. )>
.le Projet comprend les parties suivantes :)
<<Partie A: Activites Gineratrices de Revenu>
<4.Pr6paration et execution de Sous-projets dans les Provinces d 'Antananarivo et de Toliary)
I1 s'agit de la composante FID nel qui est une organisation a but non lucratif qui encourage et
finance a des fins de d6veloppement 6conomique et social de petits projets et activit6s
communautaires que proposent, entreprennent et executent des groupements communautaires, des
ONG et des administrations locales. Les petits projets et activit6s communautaires propos6s
comprennent : i) construction et r6fection de l'infrastructure de base ii) activit6s g6n6ratrices de
revenus iii) programme de soutien au secteur priv6.
Cette composante a pu atteindre ses objectifs car la SECALINE le Projet mere a su rapidement cr6er
juridiquement l'association d'utilit6 publique FID, 6riger les divers organes n6cessaires a la
supervision institutionnelle, transmettre au personnel-cle de cette composante les m6thodes de gestion
comptable et de relations avec les responsables des Finances Publiques, les b6n6ficiaires, les ONG et
les divers intervenants. Ainsi, il n'a pas rencontr6 de problemes majeures au point de vue logistique,
fonds de contre-partie, d6caissements, divers audits et relations avec le Projet- mere. En mi-1995
apres que le FID n°l ait consomm6 9 775 000USD la SECALINE a pr6par6 la mise en place du
projet FID n°2, a recrute son Directeur G6n6ral par Appel d'Offres et a proc6de du 03 au 05 Juillet
1995 aux n6gociations avec la Banque Mondiale. Les n6gociations de FID n02 se sont d6roul6es a la
Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale A Antananarivo. Ainsi par Accord de Cr6dit MAG 2778
du 05 Octobre 1995, le FID n°2 a pu obtenir 40 millions de dollars US, ne faisait plus partie des
composantes de la SECALINE et grace A ses acquis dans le FID n°l, opere dans tout le territoire de
facon ind6pendante.
R6alisations du FID N°1 chiffres en DTS communiqu6s par son Directeur General suivant sa lettre
n0987/00/02CRH/98 du 19/11/98:
Categories de depenses   Budget alloue       D6caissements        Solde au 31/12/96
L.A Foumitures et services 5 460 000         5 169 580,61         290 419,39
pour les sous-projets
LB Service  consultants, 1 140 000             427 996,43         712 003,57
formations et etudes
L.C Mat6riel, v6hicules et  370 000            896 772,13         (526 772,13)
mat6riaux
1.1) Frais fonctionnement    470 000            787 176,88        (317 176,88)
Compte special          I                       866 243,38        (866 243,38)
DTS                     7 440 000             8 147 769,43        (707 769,43)
Rappel des objectifs du FID:
- Cr6ation d'emplois temporaires par construction ou r6habilitation d'infrastructures de base;
- Cr6ation d'emplois durables par le biais d'activit6s g6n6ratrices de revenu;
- Promotion et ddveloppement des micro et petites Entreprises(MPE) notamment des Bureaux
d'Etudes(BE) et Entreprises des BTP.
Le FID a 6galement pu offrir 104 march6s Bureaux d'Etudes et 48 contrat de tacheronnage.
7



Ci-dessous les r6alisations en nombre par typologie:
- Infrastructure de base         331
- Activites Generatrices de revenu  20
- Appui au secteur prive (formation)   10 (soit 180 participants)
Nombre total de sous-projets      361
La contribution des b6neficiaires se concretisait soit sous forme de fournitures de materiaux locaux,
soit en main-d'ceuvre, soit en especes.
Le montant correspondant de ces apports est alors deduit du contrat de l'Entreprise pour un total de 1
581 675 880 Fmg.
<<2. Distribution d court terme de vivres au profit d 'environ 90 Fokontany les plus pauvres de la zone
du Grand Antananarivo auxquels il sera demande d'entretenir, de rehabiliter et de construire des
equipements communautaires. >>
I1 s'agit de notre composante HIMO/VCT. Nous avons choisi le BIT (lettre d'accord du ler F6vrier
1994) pour executer cette composante, compte tenu de leur experience en micro-realisations et en
travaux Himo. Nous avons egalement choisi un CTP qui connait bien les realites africaines,
notamment la situation des pauvres et des travaux d'assainissements indispensables pour leur
environnement, tout en respectant l'objectif de la SECALINE de transferer des vivres aux plus
demunis en evitant de faire de l'assistanat.
I1 faut mentionner que cette composante qui utilise des vivres est 6galement regie par le plan
d'operation MAG- 4553 conclu entre Madagascar et le Programme Alimentaire Mondial relatif a
l'appui au Projet de Securite Alimentaire et de Nutrition Elargie <(SECALINE>).
Dans cette composante la SECALINE doit respecter trois protocoles: i) I'accord de credit avec la
Banque Mondiale, ii) le Plan d'operation avec le PAM et iii) la lettre d'accord avec le BIT.
La mesure dans laquelle cette composante est une reussite est le fait:
i) qu'efle utilise de la main d'cruvre non qualifiee, non utilis6e ni par les societes et Projets qui
n'utilisent que des PME ni par les ONG; ii) qu'elle fait du transfert de vivres aux plus demunis grace
a un bon ciblage; iii) qu'elle fait les travaux d'assainissements d'utilite publique non programmes par
d'autres projets, iv) qu'elle a su restructurer et reorganiser les communautes de base ou Fokontany.
Lorsqu'on regarde les previsions, on peut constater de prime abord, que certains chiffres ne sont pas
atteints. C'est tout a fait normal car pour nous les objectifs ont 6te surestimes .. Par exemple pour le
nettoyage d'un canal de 1 lKm 1'estimation etait d'utiliser 200 personnes-jours or 40 personnes-jours
ont suffi pour nettoyer ce canal de l1km. Un autre exemple concemant les vivres, nous n'avons
injecte qu' 1/5 des vivres prevus pour realiser le meme travail .
Dans le rapport d'&valuation du 18 Fevrier 1993 il n'etait pas fait de distinction entre travailleurs
femmes et hommes mais les resultats ont montre que 70% de la population pauvre touchee etait des
femmes.
Concemant la perennisation, nous avons constitue au sein des Fokontany, des comites de gestion,
nous avons donne des formations aux membres de bureau de ces comites pour assurer l'entretien des
acquis. 20% de ces comites sont juges bons actuellement, 20% ont disparu et le reste juge moyen.
Pendant la realisation de cette composante, nous avons cree de petits outillages faciles A fabriquer
mais tr&s perfornants. Nous pensons que les Comit6s de gestion des Fokontany s'ils
veulent reellement continuer les travaux que nous avons initi6s, pourront acquerir ces outillages avec
les fonds obtenus des cotisations des membres du Fokontany - systeme que nous avons initie au
niveau de ces communautes pour assurer la perennit6 des acquis.
Pour eviter que les jeunes ne deviennent oisifs et s'adonnent a la delinquance, nous avons renforce les
assainissements et nettoyages des terrains vagues pour les rendre aptes A devenir des terrains de sport
et de jeux.
Ainsi la principale mesure qui nous a aides A atteindre notre objectif est la prise en mains de nos
activites par la population. I1 est bien dommage que cette composante ne soit pas reconduite
dans la phase n°2-SEECALINE, car nous avons acquis une bonne experience dans les travaux
8



communautaires urbains et nos objectifs ont ete compris par la population.
Realisations VCT/HIMO Chiffres en USD:
IDA          I       PAM                  TOTAL                  SOLDE
1 456 900(1)           6 433 660      |      7 890 560            743 100(IDA)
(1) Depenses BIT non encore disponibles (Novembre 1998).
<<Partie B: Programme de Nutrition))
<<1. Exgcution d'un programme communautaire de nutrition pour aider les menages a utiliser plus
efficacement les ressources disponibles et pour fournir des supplements alimentaires aux enfants
grdce au fonctionnement d 'environ 250 centres communautaires de nutrition d creer et de 9 centres
de rehabilitation nutritionnelle a renover dans les Provinces d 'Antananarivo et de Toliary.))
II s'agit des deux Programmes Communautaires de Nutrition(PCN) Antananarivo et Toliary.
Les mesures qui nous ont aides a atteindre nos objectifs sont assez nombreuses.
- Tout d'abord les ONG ont servi de traits d'union entre la SECALINE et la Population.
II fallait selectionner correctement les ONG les plus performantes. Nous avons choisi au total 50
ONG avec lesquelles nous avons travaille. Nous sommes convaincus que la perennisation se fera par
ces ONG. Elles ont constamment recu des formations et des recyclages dans le sens de la
perennisation. Lorsque la SECALINE se desengage de ses sites, les divers equipements et materiels
sont remis a ces ONG. Cette methode de d6sengagement ne pourra que les encourager et les inciter a
mieux s'organiser pour arriver jusqu'a la cloture du Projet.
I1 est bien entendu que les ONG non perfonnantes ont ete remplacees en cours d'execution du Proj et.
- La SECALINE a su integrer le Projet dans la mentalite malgache par le respect de la culture, les us
et coutumes de chaque localite et l'Histoire de Madagascar. C'est un des points que nous avons
cherche a tout prix a realiser, en effet, des le depart nous etions convaincus de l'importance de la
th6orie qui se traduit en pratiques, en particulier celles adaptees aux besoins concrets de la
population.
- Le choix de l'Agent Communautaire de Nutrition, 1'ACN n'est impose ni par l'ONG, ni par le
Projet mais choisi parmi les membres de la Communaute par la Communaute. Cette procedure a
contribue a la realisation de nos objectifs. En effet, 1'ACN choisie, toujours une femme a ete agreee et
acceptee par tous, a pu beneficier d'un statut social qui lui a permis de realiser dans de bonnes
conditions ses taches.
- Les rencontres lors des seances de travail, de formation, de recyclage, des evaluations cycliques et
sommatives et des voyages d'etudes, ont e  rentables car nous avons note les echanges entre ONG,
entre Animateurs, entre ACN et entre agents du Projet. Echanges qui ont apporte des ajustements, des
ameliorations et des enrichissements reciproques .
- I1 y a eu collaboration avec les centres de rehabilitation th6rapeutique, 5 a Antananarivo et 7 a
Toliary, mais collaboration insuffisante compte tenu de  problemes divers (insuffisance de
medicaments, eloignement des CRT par rapport aux sites...)
Realisations PCN/TOLIARY chiffres en USD:
IDA                  PAM                  TOTAL    E   EPARGNE
1 598 100             1 546 300             3 144 400              1 101 900
Realisations PCN/ANTANANARIVO chiffres en USD:
IDA                  PAM                  TOTAL                EPARGNE
1396 800              1 274 900             2 671 700               3 200
Nous tenons a mentionner que pour le succes des composantes HIMONVCT, PCN et Aides en vivres
aux Centres Sociaux, nous avons eu a gerer des articles alimentaires et des articles non alimentaires.
L'obtention   d'un  magasin  de stockage dans un camp militaire a e  pour nous d'un grand
9



secours contre les risques de vol de ces articles et le perissement des vivres, en effet le magasin etait
conforme aux normes requises pour un bon stockage.
En ce qui concerne les aides en vivres pour les centres sociaux, en fait c'est une composante qui s'est
greffee a la composante HIMO/VCT . Cette sous-composante nous a aides a mieux connaltre la
gestion et les activites d'une centaine d'ONG dans leur vocation d'aide humanitaire, A mieux
connaitre le probleme de pauvrete, puisque nous avons distribu6 des vivres a environ 6000
beneficiaires.
((2. Excution d'un programme national de lutte contre les troubles dus a la carence en iode par la
fourniture de capsules d'huile iod&e aux enfants de quatre ans et moins et aux femmes en dge de
procreer etpar I 'addition d 'iode au sel. >
C'est notre composante 6odation du selb realisee avec le Ministere de la Sante et l'UNICEF.
En fait la SECALINE a finance lFop6ration d'iodation du sel malgache, les capsules iodees ont 6t6
donn6es par l'UNICEF et le Ministere ajou6 le r6le d'agence d'execution de la Composante.
La synergie des activites entre les trois entit6s cites ci-dessus, est un exemple qu'il faut citer a
Madagascar. En effet cette operation a e  salutaire pour le pays car les zones A risque totalisaient 9
millions sur 13 millions de malgaches.
On sait que la carence en iode entraine beaucoup de maladies telles que goitre, cretinisme,
avortements repetes, enfants sourds-muets et autres. Or lutter contre cette carence n'a couite que 0,11
dollars US par personne a Madagascar. Ce fat une operation prioritaire car c'est la premiere forme
de lutte contre une source originale de pauvrete. En effet les enfants atteints de cretinisme seront les
futurs pauvres car ils ne pourront pas s'ins6rer dans la population active plus tard.
L'operation a ete facilitee par le regroupement des sauniers dans trois zones de l'Ile, Antsiranana qui
assure les 70% du marche de sel a Madagascar, Morondava et Toliary pour les 30%. La mise en place
du mecanisme d'iodation, realis6e grace a l'assistance technique d'un expert alg6rien fourni par
l'UNICEF, le suivi, le contr6le de toutes les activites ont e  faits dans ces trois r6gions bien precises.
R6alisations LTDCI, Lutte contre les Troubles Dus A la Carence en lode, chiffres en USD:
IDA                        UNICEF                         TOTAL
500 000            400  000: capsules iod6es et             900 000
divers appuis au Ministere de
Sante. Enquete CAP au Projet
<<Parfie C: Appui au Developpement Institutionneb>
<<1. E:rcution d 'un programme d 'IEC a l 'appui des activit6s des Parties A et B du Projet, en vue
d 'etablir un lien entre ces activites et d 'en assurer la complementarite, y compris la mise au point et
I 'application d 'une strategie de communication. A
I1 s'agit de notre composante IEC.
Le rapport de mission du 06 Octobre au 04 Novembre 1992 de l'expert intemational charge de
mettre en place la strategie IEC pour notre Projet a su mettre en 6vidence I'articulation entre les six
composantes pour donner l'espoir et pour enlever toutes sortes d'inquietude dans la realisation des
objectifs. Cet expert nous a aide a d6velopper la communication sociale favorable A la securite
alimentaire et a la nutrition et la communication inteme au Projet SECALINE.
Ainsi, ce document, associe A l'enquee XCapacit6 Aptitude et Pratique)» ou enqu8te - CAP finance
par l'UNICEF, aux enquetes sur les ben6ficiaires et aux divers documentations que la Banque
Mondiale nous a dotees ont e  les outils efficaces pour le Projet, notamment en ce qui conceme
l'IEC A mettre en place tout au long du projet.
- L'6ducation nutritionnelle , les messages divers, les materiels IEC ont fait que nous sommes devenu
l'un des Projets qui a reussi a s'adresser directement a la population et qui a ete compris par cette
derniere..
Realisations IEC chiffres en USD : IDA= 549 200        Epargne = 450 800
10



,K2. Elaboration d'une Strat6gie Nationale de S&curitN Alimentaire (fSNSA)))
La Banque Mondiale nous a compris en acceptant notre demande de n'utiliser que des experts
nationaux pour l'6laboration de la SNSA. L'encadrement de ces experts a te une des taches
principales du Projet. Elaborer une strategie nationale est un objectif important pour Madagascar.
Aussi avons-nous fait en sorte d'obtenir F'adhesion aux objectifs de ces documents, des notables, des
responsables, des elus, des representants de la population, et des autres partenaires.
Pour valider les divers avis nous avons organise 16 ateliers r6gionaux et un atelier national.
L'adoption par decret n°97-1353 par le Gouvernement de ces documents - SNSA comme politique de
securite alimentaire Gouvemementale et base de toutes actions et recherches en matiere de S6curite
Alimentaire institutionnalise la lutte contre l'insecurite alimentaire.
Realisations SNSA chiffres en USD :IDA=167 800 sur un budget previsionnel de 100 000
C) - EVALUATION DE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET ET FACTEURS PRINCIPAUX
AYANT AFFECTE SA REALISATION.
L'execution du Projet SECALINE s'est reposee sur:
. l'administration du Projet qui englobe la gestion des ressources humaines, materielles et financieres,
les manuels de procedures;
le partenariat avec les communautes de base et les ONG;
les relations avec les Bailleurs de Fonds;
les relations avec l'administration, les prestataires de biens et services;
le suivi et l'6valuation.
gg-  M/1                       I~~~~~~ FE    ~ -
_______________ _________   /  /E                           /r' M'  /
Nous pensons que le personnel travailant dans un Projet ne doit pas avoir d'autres centres d'inter8t.
Que l'Objectif soit connu de tout le personnel et que tous cherchent les moyens a mettre en ceuvre,
chacun a son niveau , pour son atteinte
En ce qui conceme la SECALINE, nous avons adopte les procedures de recrutement de la Banque
Mondiale et avons 6labor6 les contrats du personnel selon nos propres prerogatives tout en tenant
compte du Code du travail et des realites socio-economiques du pays.
Nous avons cree nous-memes in Manuel de Proc6dures Inteme pour instituer une ligne de conduite
et une reglementation bien definie a respecter . Pour tout ecart nous avons pris les mesures qui
s'imposent prevues dans ce Manuel.
b) Lu gesdoo. des matdti*ls ~~~        ~       ....... ..M. Imsoli
Nous l'avons egalement prevu dans notre Manuel de procedures intemes.
Les procedures de passation des marches trop strictes ont constitue parfois un handicap pour la bonne
gestion des mat6riels du Projet. En effet, l'application du terme <moins disant>> lors du choix de
mat6riel nous a oblige de choisir un materiel moins performant qui n'a pas la m8me longevite que les
mat6riels de bonne marque, nousi obligeant de payer des frais de reparations repetees et onereuses.
En plus, les services apres vente a Madagascar laissent souvent a desirer (vol de pieces pendant les
reparations, incapacite des techniciens, retard de livraison et autres). Les prix des pieces detachees
sont exorbitants et imprevisibles. Les prix des consommations diverses (carburant, telephone et
autres) accusent une hausse constante et parfois dans des proportions considerables
Pour certains mat6riels, nous avons assure la formation des utilisateurs de ces materiels.
I1 serait souhaitable de pouvoir proc6der a la refonne puis a la vente des materiels uses et ceux
devenus obsoletes. En effet, nous avons des materiels non utilisables, non r6parables faute de pieces
de rechange et les endroits pour les stocker n'existent pas.
i)La nouvelle procedure de mettre les dep8ts initiaux (compte.special en dollars US et compte de
11



Projet en Fmg) dans une banque primaire a all6g6 notre gestion comptable. Cette proc6dure a et6
initiee et discutee le 08 decembre 1992, (en ce qui conceme la SECALINE) lots de la mission A
Antananarivo de M. Weindler, alors Responsable des deboursements au niveau de Washington. A la
suite de cette mission , ont et6 preparees les diverses reglementations concernant la gestion des
((comptes sp6ciaux>>, des avances sur ressources exterieures (arr&e interministeriel N°3889/93 du
02/08/93 portant crtation de caisses d'avances renouvelables finanedes par 1'IDA et les autres arretes
qui s'en sontsuivis).
ii)Pour la mise en place de notre gestion comptable, nous avons eu des probl&mes en 1992
concemant la mise en place d'un logiciel comptable sur mesure. Le Cabinet choisi par Appel d'Offre
n'a pas respect6 le d6lai de 7 mois du 05/01/93 au 05/08/93 pour l'elaboration du logiciel stipul6 dans
le contrat. Apr&s une attente vaine de 20 mois, 05/01/93 au 08/09/94 le Projet a ete oblig6 de resilier
le contrat et de se doter d'un logiciel utilisable par tous les Projets de la Banque Mondiale le
TOMPRO (TOMATE).
Nous avons eu des difficultes pour 6tablir manuellement les 6tats financiers exig6s pour les auditeurs
externes lors de la verification des comptes des exercices 1993 et 1994.
(Le Cabinet a port6 plainte contre nous devant le tribunal pour recevoir les 100% de ses prestations
pour un service qu'il n'a pas pu realiser. A la signature du contrat et lors d'une livraison de divers
documents, il a pu toucher 50% d'avance)
iii) Au debut du Proj et, nous avions b6nefici6 d'exoneration de droits et taxes A l'importation en ce
qui conceme les equipements et les denrtes alimentaires. Depuis mi-1997, nous avons ete obliges de
prevoir dans nos budgets des fonds de contre partie d'un montant correspondant a ces taxes. Ce qui
n'a pas affect6 r6ellement le Projet mais nous a cause quelques desagrements au niveau de la
tresorerie.
Sinon, nous ne voyons pas de facteurs majeurs ayant affecte la gestion financiere. Nos realisations
budg6taires n'ont varie qu'entre +10% a -10% d'ecart par rapport A nos programmes previsionnels de
travail annuel (PTA).
4) La gestuen dii manuel de proe~~~~~~~~d..r.... . . . 7..   .       ... ....
Concerne le FID n°l, deux points essentiels initialement prevus n'auront veritablement atteint leur
regime de croisiere qu'A la fin du FID pour des raisons qui s'expliquent de facon evidente:
- les projets AGR furent moins nombreux que prevus: en definitive le FID a ete utilise pour la mise au
point de Manuel de Procedures definitive en AGR,
- le FID constituait une periode test de mise au point de la nouvelle approche dite participative
integrant de plus en plus les beneficiaires, y compris la commune: a ce titre, il fut egalement a
l'origine d'un nouveau Manuel de Procedures en Infrastructure de base.
C'est la Cormunaute de base qui realise la plus grande partie des activites du PCN. Le choix de
1'ACN qui est elu par la Communaute influence considerablement les performances des sites.
Neanmoins, un bon encadrement de 1'ONG renforce et redynamise la mobilisation sociale en faveur
du PCN. Apres le desengagement de la SECALINE, les Communantes ont offert des locaux pour la
poursuite des programmes. Des ACN (toujours des femmes)ont ete aussi elues Presidents de
Fokoc.-tany quelque fois meme Maires.
En ce qui conceme le FID n°l, les resultats des interventions du FID sont fort apprecies par les
populations beneficiaires qui contribuent de plus en plus aux efforts d'investissements et d'entretien
des ouvrages
Pour la realisation du PCN, les Coordinations regionales collaborent en partenariat avec des ONG qui
jouent le role d'interface entre les Coordinations regionales et les Communautes de base, suite aux
selections effectuees par les Coordinations regionales pour determiner celles pouvant devenir
partenaires. Une convention signee par les deux parties regit la collaboration.
12



Les changements des missionnaires et des "Task Manager" nous ont oblige a nous adapter aux
nouveaux venus et a leurs methodes et par voie de cons6quence a l'organigramme des Bailleurs .
Pourquoi par exemple, la pr6paration de la phase n°2-Seecaline n'a pas 6te faite par des
fonctionnaires de la Banque qui connaissent d6ja a fond la phase nl -Secaline?
Nous souhaiterions atre inform6s et form6s a temps sur les changements de proc6dures.
Nous souhaiterions 6galement, pour la bonne continuit6 du Projet que les r6solutions et
recommandations 6mises dans les aides m6moires ant6rieures soient consid6rees par les nouveaux
venus.
Un climat de bonne collaboration et de confiance entre les agents de la Banque et ceux des Projets
est la source de r6ussite.
Les Bailleurs de fonds PAM et Banque Mondiale ont fix6 parfois des objectifs differents pour une
meme composante. Deux exemples sur la Secaline: a) pour le PCN d'Antananarivo, la Banque a
prevu la criation de 100 sites et le PAM 500 sites. b) pour la composante HIMONVCT la Banque a
prevu 3 168 000 Hommes-jours en emplois cr66s, et le PAM  4 218 000 revise A 1 500 000 lors de la
revue a mi parcours.
le Projet SECALINE n'a pas senti des facteurs ayant affect6 le Projet dans ses relations avec
l'admninistration. II a touj ours cherch6 les solutions et une bonne collaboration notammen.t sur le
terrain.
Nos relations ont toujours ete bonnes. Ce qui est du probablement au fait que nous n'avons pas
rencontr6 de probl&me de tr6sorerie.
Le projet FID n0l constituait sans conteste le plus grand support de la relance des activit6s des MPE
et BE en BTP, mais surtout de leur promotion et developpement au niveau r6gional et meme tres
local.
Le Logiciel de Suivi du Projet SECALINE (LSPS) elabor6 par un consultant de la Banque
Mondiale assist6 par un Consultant national n'a pas donn6 les r6sultats escompt6s. La programnnation
6tait trop lourde et finalement inexploitable. Ainsi avons-nous dui exploiter manuellement les chiffres
des r6sultats par composantes.
D) PERENNITE DU PROJET
P.C.N          La perennit6 pour 5 ans c'est la phase-2 Seecaline par creation de 4040 sites dans tou
Madagascar sur le modele de la phase-i Secaline. Apres, la perennite se fera par le
Communautes de base, les ONG et les organismes de nutrition
en renforcant nos actions d'IEC an profit des Fokonolona, des ONG et d'autres partenaires (1)
IODE           D6cret n°95-587 la p6rennite sera assuree par le Minist&re de la Saite car c'est
un probkme de sant publique. La phase-2 Seecaline fera de l'IEC dans les ecoles primaire
pour suivre au niveau des 6elves l'utilisation du sel iode.
FID N°l        FID N02
HIMOIVCT       La perennite des travaux d'assainissements se fera logiquement par la Mairie de la Capitalc
par cr6ation des deux societes privees SAMVA et APIPA.
Par contre la perennite de la prise en charge des plus demunis ne sera pas pr6vue . Nou
essayons de chercher des financements avec le BIT pour poursuivre cette composante afin d
crter des emplois pour les pauvres sans qualification. (1)
I.E.C          Cette composante sera poursuivie dans la phase-2 Seecaline. Ses activites seront renforcee
pour pennettre aux Fokonolona de se prendre en charge.
SNSA           Ddcret N°97-1353 qui adopte les documents - SNSA comme politique de securite alimentaire
gouvemementale. La SNSA servira de base de toutes actions et recherches en matiee d
Sbcurite Alimentaire.
13



(1) Pour permettre aux ONG de trouver des ressources nous avons organise 15 formations
d'Avril a Octobre 1998 comportant 250 personnes (Th6ories et pratiques) pour la transformation des
feuilles mortes et des ordures menageres en charbon et en engrais.
Actuellement, avec la promotion des foyers ameliores, on utilise ces charbons dans les families
Ces charbons ont I'avantage d'arr8ter la deforestation, de reduire les depenses familiales en achat du
bois de chauffe, de reduire leurs depenses en achat de fongicides et d'insecticides car en brfilant les
detritus et ordures on a remarque qu'il y a moins d'insectes et de microbes nuisibles dans les champs
et enfin d'avoir des cuisines plus propres car ces genres de charbons ne generent pas trop de fumees
et ne salissent pas les murs.
I1 y a deja plusieurs ONG qui font des revenus en vendant des foyers amnliores, des charbons et des
engrais. Toutes ces fabrications reposent sur des matieres premieres gratuites.
Nous vulgarisons ces methodes dans les Fokontany.
L'appropriation du Projet est aussi une des manifestations de cette perennisation. Les Fokontany se
sont organises pour mettre en place un fonds pour le maintien des infrastructures communautaires et
meme pour la construction de locaux pour la poursuite d'activites.
En matiere de nutrition, l'intensification des messages et des informations sur ce theme et ses derives
a nettement contribue a sa comprehension en tant que probleme vecu au quotidien dans chaque
famille. Les multiples poemes, chansons et pieces de theatre presentes au public lors des diff6rentes
manifestations temoignent l'integration du Projet au sein des Fokontany. Les demonstrations des
possibilites existant reellement sur place pour lutter contre la malnutrition, effectuees par le Projet ont
eu des resultats palpables et verifiables. Les meres, ACN et animateurs ont demontre leur capacite
d'innovation a travers les menus originaux, equilibres et delicieux.
Le Projet Secaline est entre dans la vie quotidienne de la population. Si bien que Secaline est devenu
un prenom pour les nouveaux n6s dans les sites. Secaline est aussi devenu un label pour les gargotiers
(soupe Secaline et autres)
E) PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
La Banque a toujours cherch6 tous les moyens pour all6ger nos procedures et pour nous aider a ne pas
rentrer dans la lourdeur administrative.
La Banque fait regulierement des missions de supervision en laissant des aides memoires
destines a soutenir nos activites. Par exemple des aides memoires a recommande des incitations pour
les ACN et des ONG (bicyclettes ou machines a coudre, formations, rencontres, 6changes, voyages
d'etudes...).
Lors des missions et apres echanges de vue, nous avons obtenu certains assouplissements et flexibilite
des procedures et des previsions. Par exemple la Banque et le PAM ont accepte d'augmenter le
nombre des sites lorsque nous avons explique notre savoir faire et le besoin de la population.
Autre exemple, lors de l'attribution des marches par appel d'offre, elle a prevu une certaine tolerance
dans nos choix. Le delai de reapprovisionnement du compte special d'environ 15 jours est presque
toujours respecte.
Lors des reunions sectorielles nous avons l'opportunite d'exposer nos problemes.
F) RESULTATS GLOBAUX ET IMPACTS DU PROJET (Par composante)
Le PCN:
i)reduction du taux de malnutrition dans les sites SECALINE sup6rieure aux previsions. ii)
participation effective de la plupart des meres et des Fokontany iii) Changement de comportement
grace aux actions de l'IEC ,iv) utilisation accrue des produits locaux en vue de la diversification des
repas, v) les sites sont devenus des centres d'infonmation pour tout ce qui conceme le bien etre de la
famille planning familial, vaccination, sante par les aliments, sant6 par des m6thodes simples tel par
exemple le melange d'eau, sel et sucre en cas de deshydratation.
14



L'iodation du sel:
i) reduction du taux de goitre de 45, 2% en 1992 A 15% en Octobre 1998,
ii) 90% de la production nationale de sel est iodee,
iii) les actions IEC et le decret N095-587 portant adoption de la politique nationale de lutte contre les
troubles dus a la carence en iode et sa r6glementation commencent a porter leurs fruits.
Le FID not:
Creation d'emploi, de marches aux PME. Realisation superieure aux objectifs fixes. Desenclavement
des regions (routes, pistes, ponts etc...), aides aux Communautes de base en ce qui conceme les
travaux de constructions et de rehabilitations d'utilite publique (ecoles, centres de soins de base,
h6pitaux, barrages, perimetres irrigues etc...).
Les efforts alloues a la formation des partenaires du FID ont ameliore de facon tres sensible le savoir
faire entreprenarial. Ses r6alisations furent A l'origine d'une importante creation d'emplois
temporaires et de distribution d'une masse de revenus importante au niveau des sites de projet.
Les HIMO/VCT:
Emplois temporaires crees : 1 270 500 - 105 Fokontany touches - Transfert de vivres aux plus
demunis : 2180 tonnes de riz - Dotation de savons, vaccins anti-tetanos, consultation et premiers
soins sur chantiers pour les travailleurs et leurs families directes - 141 700 metres de canaux cures,
nettoyes, rehabilites -  6920 metres de passerelles construites - 71800 metres de pistes pietonnes
r6habilit6es - 7500 metres d'escalier r6habilites - 100 000 metres carres de surface d'eau, marais et
terrains vagues amenages, 108 000 rats tues - 15 bacs a ordures construits.
Creation et formation de comites de gestion dans les Fokontany pour la perennisation des travaux
d'assainissement, reorganisation et restructuration de ces groupements afin de se prendre en mains et
de s'approprier des travaux offerts par le Projet mais executes par leurs membres.
Realisation de travaux que les autres Projets ne font pas car, travaux non realisables par les PME mais
aussi travaux tres degradants.
L'IEC:
Information des ONG, des decideurs, des services centraux et regionaux au sujet du Projet
SECALINE. Formation , recyclage, evaluations cycliques et sommatives - Mediatisations
communautaires - IEC au sein des composantes - Supports mediatiques : publication de livrets,
autocollants, tee-shirt, pagnes, casquettes, affiches, affichettes, banderoles etc.
Communication de masse: Radio, Television, , presses locales et nationales - Communication
interpersonnelle - Representation du Projet dans diverses manifestations.
La SNSA:
Elaboration des documents SNSA - Distribution de ces documents a tous les decideurs, responsables,
notables, elus, ONG, Organismes Intemationaux etc. (nombre de documents distribues a ce jour
=554) - Le Gouvemement a adopte par d6cret n' 97 1353 ces documents SNSA
G) LECONS TIREES DU PROJET ET DE SA REALISATION
10) Les acquis du Projet:
- Souplesse et efficacite de la gestion dues A une structure autonome placee sous tutelle
Primature, executee avec rapidite et travaillant comme dans le secteur prive (personnel recrute sur une
base contractuelle et large appel a des ONG pour l'ex6cution et autres);
- Savoir-faire en matiere d'interventions communautaires, participation active des
communautes ou Fokonolona a tous les stades de 1'execution;
- Developpement d'un faire-savoir dfi A une multitude de formations dispensees aux
animateurs, ACN et autres responsables d'ONG etlou de communautes;
- Solidarite de tous les agents operant pour le Projet grace a l'uniformite et a la coherence des
procedures, cimentee par les seances - IEC, renforcee par les echanges et rencontres lors des voyages
d'etudes, des seances de formation/recyclage et des evaluations collectives.
15



2°) Le;ons a en tirer:
- Un projet qui beneficie d'une autonomie de gestion a plus de chance de devenir un projet
performant avec une efficacite plus grande et une rapidite dans son ex6cution;
- Pour le succes d'un projet il faut se reposer totalement sur la mobilisation communautaire. Les
activit6s se reposant sur les communaut6s ou Fokonolona (Fokonolona et Fokontany sont les bases de
toutes divisions issues de la civilisation malgache) sont mieux comprises et appreciees par la
population .Si l'on tombe sur des ONG performantes, trait d'union entre les beneficiaires et le Projet,
le resultat positif est completement assure.
- Le personnel d'un projet ne devrait pas avoir d'autres centres d'interet mais se concentrer
entierement dans son ex6cution .
- En contrepartie, il faut securiser ce personnel s'il le merite, on adoptera a partir de la deuxieme
ann6e un contrat d'au moms deux ans? En effet les contrats sont actuellement faits pour un an
renouvelable apres avis de non objection annuel de la Banque en ce qui concerne la Secaline . n faut
6galement 6valuer le travail fait a sa juste valeur, considerer la performance des Projets et les plus
values qui en resultent pour les Bailleurs;
- Concemant les contrats avec les tiers, les paiements devraient s'echelonner pour assurer la bonne fin
de l'execution des prestations (par exemple, 10% a la signature du contrat, 10% au demarrage des
travaux, 30% A la livraison provisoire et le reste A prevoir selon le cas) I1 faut eviter les paiements de
50% a la signature si c'est possible (notre mauvaise experience avec le Cabinet charge de mettre en
place le logiciel comptable voir plus haut)
Lorsqu'on prepare un nouveau projet ou la suite d'un projet existant, la Banque devrait demander
l'avis du personnel du Projet sur les composantes A maintenir de cc projet. Ce personnel connait
mieux les besoins du pays. (Exemple pour la phase n°2 Seecaline, la mission de la Banque a decid6
de se cantonner a la malnutrition malgre notre demande de maintenir la composante HIMO qui sauve
les pauvres des villes en leur donnant soit des vivres soit des revenus contre des travaux
communautaires d'utilite publique.)
ANTANANARIVO, LE 26 NOVEMBRE 1998
16



IBRD 20035R1
________- A  ~          ~             A  H     J Ab.  b
P1444'0s elANATASANARAV
4'   ~~~~~    PS                                                  '~~~~~I
%7-dl  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snhv
Co~,A,t~ d Ffof
CIr.~    ~                                                    Ao4oIM- h>               /04
r.ty~~rr~n~~rO) c~'trdn  ~~An ~ositr4- Ardp
L I A R YB$                                                   i
1,4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arfkh
Olk-g
InrooH,~,o OA~ek.-b.               FIANARo   .
Ih.sy ~       ~         -               Q    /          
Maaag                                      /    0todrtoe-o
Bergegy
B.ki~ly    P          0ooMnpke                                                       .Me
MAHAJ NGA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AB.~
~ihy                                                                       IMBAAE: ::
ud ~  ~     ~    ~     srrjoo(SaeoavnO~S
/    seAr  -~~~~~~~~                      2'     (                      /is UT
jAnareene   ~       AFRIC
/    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~/( ~~~~~~~~~                                                      DCENR19



