                                                                                                             91725
Improving Children's Health in Madagascar                                                                    July 1, 2002
                      In Madagascar, children across the country have been afflicted by a remarkably high rate of infection
                      by various intestinal worms, which can cause anemia. A community-based response, supported by the
                      World Bank,  has brought action on several fronts, ranging from nutritional supplements to grants for
                      school water tanks. In almost four years, SEECALINE a community nutrition program in Madagascar
                      has treated 1.2 million students, preschoolers and non-enrolled school-aged children for intestinal
                      parasites.  The program has provided iron supplements to 800,000 students, funded 71 micro-projects,
                      and trained 20,000 teachers. 

Under the same program, parents, children, and teachers working with local non-governmental organizations can apply for
grants for school water tanks and latrines to decrease the chances of parasite re-infections.  Teachers are also trained to
provide education in good nutrition and hygiene to children during regular classes, which discourages re-infection and
encourages children to include iron in their regular diet.

The program continues to tackle iodine deficiency - another prevalent, but easily remedied problem which causes mental
retardation and poor growth in all children, and can cause younger children to become deaf.  Iodine deficiency affects all
children's capacity to learn.

In a primary school in the village of Soamierana, children were asked to bring in table salt from their houses to be tested in
school using a simple test kit provided by UNICEF.  The salt proved to be plain salt without any iodine.  With new-found self-
confidence, the children informed their parents that they should no longer buy salt from the local merchant.  Pressure from
parents and the community persuaded the merchant to restock his shop with iodized salt.  

Related Links:
  Madagascar
  Health, Nutrition & Population
  UNICEF  

Updated: July 2002
