lill
CREDIT NUMBER 2474 HAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Food Security and Nutrition Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated              rcL    , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2474 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       pc o, 1993, between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTEkNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated February 4,
1993, its policies and objectives designed to improve food security
in its territories (the Food Security Policy);
(C)   by agreements dated February 20, 1991 and September 27,
1991 (the Japanese Grant Agreements), the Association has agreed to
administer grant funds made available by Japan (the Japanese
Grants), to the Borrower in an aggregate amount principal amount of
twenty-six million five hundred thousand yen (v26,500,000) and
forty-one million nine hundred thousand yen (Y41,900,000),
respectively, to finance the cost of technical assistance activities
for the preparation of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Japanese Grant Agreements;
(D)   the Borrower intends to contract from other donors loans
or grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,700,000 dollars to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in respective agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and those donors;
(E)   Part A.1 of the Project will be carried out by Fonds
d'Intervention pour le D6veloppement (FID) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to FID a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and FID;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project  Preparation  Adva-ace"  means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 24 and February 15,
1991, and January 19 and March 25, 1993 between the Borrower and the
Association;
(b)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)   "BPS" means the Bureau d'Ex6cution du Projet SECALINE
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 92-
612 dated June 5, 1992, as amended from time to time;
(d)   "Convention" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FID pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Convention;
(e)   "Manual of Procedures" means the manual of procedures
governing FIi's operations;
(f)   "Statuts" means the articles of agreement of FID dated
January 13, 1993, including the Borrower's Decree No. 93-044, dated
January 27, 1993, portant reconnaissance d'utilit6 publique de
l'association d&nomm6e FID, and the internal regulations of FID;
(g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Fonds d'Intervention pour le DCveloppement (FID), of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,


﻿-3-
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
(h)   "Sub-project" means any of the sub-projects to be
carried out under Part A.1 of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit;
(i)   "Beneficiaries" means   community  groups  and  local
collectivities deriving benefits from Sub-projects, directly or
indirectly, including those individuals or private small-scale
enterprises operating in the economic sector;
(j)   "Executing Agency" means any of the regional services of
governmental agencies or of the non-governmental entities which
proposes to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out a Sub-project; and
(k)   "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Sche ,1e 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for 1he purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the name
of BPS (the BPS Special Account) and a special deposit account in
the name of FID (the FID Special Account), in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 4ccount
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annuLl installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. FID is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A.1 of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿-6-                                           P
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out Parts A.2, B and C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such Parts of the
Project; and
(ii) without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FID to
perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FID to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower a-nd the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A.2, B and
C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall make available to FID, on a grant
basis, the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under
a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and FID, on
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the


﻿-7-
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention
or any provision thereof.
(e)   Without limitation upon the provisions of this Section,
the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its contri-
bution to the Project, open and maintain in a commercial bank: (i)
in the name of the BPS for Parts A.2, B and C of the Project, a
separate account and make an initial contribution of the equiva-
lent of $75,000 into such account; and (ii) in the name of FID for
Part A.1 of the Project, a separate account and make an initial
contribution of the equivalent of $75,000 into such account; said
accounts to be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or whenever
their respective balance shall be less than the equivalent of
$25,000 up to the amount of the initial contribution.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b)   Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section and subject to the provisions of said paragraph,
the Borrower shall, through the BPS, employ a specialized consulting
firm or agency, satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the
execution of Part A.2 of the ProjVct.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of
Part A.1 of the Project shall be carried out by FID pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A.2, B and C of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-8-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the BPS Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year       after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the BPS Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records   and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of


﻿-9-
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
.42RTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Food Security Policy, or a significant part thereof, will
be carried out.
(b)   FID shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that FID will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Statuts of FID shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of FID to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FID or for the suspension of its operations.
(f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the fitancing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.


﻿- 10 -
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of   this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,    cancellation,    termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Convention has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and FID;
(b)   the Manual of Procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association, has been adopted by FID;
(c)   accounting   and    financial    management   systems,
satisfactory to the Association, have been set up by the BPS for
Parts A.2, B and C of the Project and by FID for Part A.1 of the
Project;


﻿- 11 -
(d)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement and in Section 4.01 (b) of the Project Agreement have been
appointed for a period of three years;
(e)   the Borrower has made the initial contributions into the
two accounts referred to in Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement in
accordance with the provisions of such Section;
(f)   the monitoring and evaluation specialist at the national
level has been employed by the BPS in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(g)   the executive director of FID and the regional directors
for FID offices in the Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary have
been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, that:
(a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by FID and is legally binding upon FID in accordance with
its terms;
(b)   the Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and FID and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
FID in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   the Manual of Procedures has been duly approved by FID
and is legally binding upon FID in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By                               kK-         eo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By         f/s/ Ft-~c --ccto   A~UN-
5Ct0L  Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   FID
expenditures:
(a) Goods and           5,460,000         85%
services for
Sub-projects
(b) Consultants'        1,140,000        100%
services,
training
and studies
(c) Equipment,            370,000        100%
vehicles and
materials
(d) Operating costs       470,000        100%
(2)   Equipment,              1,820,000        100%
vehicles and
materials for
Parts A.2, B
and C of the
Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Fiianced
(3)   Consultants' ser-        2,380,000        100%
vices)training
and studies for
Parts A.2, B
and C of the
Project
(4)   Civil works for          1,100,000         70%
Part B of the
Project
(5)   Transport,                 370,000        100%
shipping and
handling costs
for Part A.2 of
the Project
(6)   Operating costs            540,000         70%
for Parts A.2,
B and C of the
Project
(7)   Refunding of             1,100,000        Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated                750,000
TOTAL              15,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures related to operation and maintenance of Project
vehicles and equipment, travel within Madagascar and per diem of
staff involved in the Project, office rent and maintenance, office
supplies, and salaries of local contractual staff for activities
relating to the Project.


﻿- 16 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce food insecurity
and malnutrition in the Borrower's Provinces of Antananarivo and
Toliary.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Income Generating Activities
1.    Preparation and execution of Sub-projects in the Borrower's
Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary, and such other Provinces as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
2.    Provision of short-term food transfers to about 90 of the
poorest fokontany in Greater Antananarivo recruited to maintain,
rehabilitate and construct community infrastructure.
Part B:     Nutrition Program
1.    Carrying out of a community nutrition program      to help
households make more efficient use of available resources and to
provide food supplements for children through the operation of about
250 community nutrition centers to be established and 9 nutrition
rehabilitation centers to be renovated in the Borrower's Provinces
of Antananarivo and Toliary.
2.    Carrying out of a national control program      for  iodine
deficiency disorders, through the provision of iodized oil capsules
to children up to four years of age and to women of child-bearing
age, including iodization of salt.
Part C:     Institutional Development Support
1.    Carrying out of an IEC program supporting the activities under
Parts A and B of the Project, with a view to provide links between
said activities and to ensure their complementarity, including the
development and application of a communication strategy.


﻿- 18 -
2.    Development of a national food security strategy.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1998.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
fac;ors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (i) Items or groups of items for works and goods under Sub-
projects estimated to cost between the equivalent of $10,000 and
$55,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,200,000 for works and $500,000 for goods, (ii) items or groups of
items for works for community nutrition centers and nutrition
rehabilitation centers under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to
cost between the equivalent of $10,000 and $50,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, and (iii) items or
groups of items for goods under Parts A.2, B and C of the Project


﻿- 20 -
estimated to cost between the equivalent of $50,000 and $300,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association, provided that the technical and financial bids are
simultaneously opened in public.
2.    (i) Items or groups of items for goods under Sub-projects
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $10,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, and (ii) items or
groups of items for goods under Parts A.2, B and C of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for works under Sub-projects
estimated to cost less than $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least
three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to tha Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of a
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the


﻿- 21 -
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and FID in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and FID shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$40,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $40,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    Overall Project Execution and Coordination
(a)   At the National Level
The ComitC Inter-minist6riel de Coordination du Projet
SECALINE  (CICS),   chaired  by  a   national  coordinator,  with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, shall
be responsible for the overall coordination of Project activities
and liaising with FID. The national coordinator shall be assisted by
the Bureau d'ExCcution du Prolet SECALINE (BPS) which shall be
staffed at all times with the following personnel, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: an
office director, an administrative and financial officer, an
accounting officer, an IEC specialist and a monitoring and
evaluation specialist. The BPS shall also be staffed with adequate
support staff.
(b)   At the Regional Level
In each of the Provinces of Antananarivo and Toliary, a
regional coordinator, reporting to the above-mentioned national
coordinator, shall be responsible for the coordination of Project
activities and liaising with FID, and shall be assisted at all times
with an IEC specialist, a specialist in community nutrition and an
accountant, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association; he shall also be assisted by adequate support
staff. The regional coordinator shall be responsible in particular
for ensuring the execution of the community nutrition program under
Part B.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in
accordance with a Livret du Programme Communautaire de Nutrition
(PC), satisfactory to the Association, and with the assistance of
qualified non-governmental organizations and community nutrition
agents.
2.    Proiect Review
(a)   Not later than September 30 of each year, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and approval, in
respect of the forthcoming year, detailed work programs and budgets
for Parts A, B and C of the Project. In addition, the Borrower shall


﻿- 23 -
furnish to the Association an evaluation report of Project
activities undertaken during the previous twelve-month period
between July 1 and June 30. Said programs, budgets and report shall
be prepared by the BPS, and with FID's assistance with respect to
Part A.1 of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1996, carry
out jointly with the Association and with the participation of FID
a midterm review of the Project and, soon thereafter, shall
implement the recommendations of such a review. In order to
facilitate this review, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date
of this review, a report of Project activities of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested. The
review shall cover inter alia: (a) overall Project performance
against established and agreed key performance indicators; (b)
evaluation of Project success and problems to take into account for
the future expansion of Projzct activities; (c) assessment of
Project  sustainability;  and   (d)  evaluation  of   consultants'
performance.


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means (i) Category (1) in
the case of the FID Special Account, and (ii) Categories (2), (3),
(4), (5) and (6) in the case of the BPS Special Account, set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means (i) an amount
equivalent to $500,000 for the BPS Special Account, and (ii) an
amount equivalent to $700,000 for the FID Special Account, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish a
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from a
Credit Account and deposit into a Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into a Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 25 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into a Special Account such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of a
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions    of paragraph   3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount      of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 26 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in a
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a. Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into a Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into a Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
YR SECRETARY


