                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 34615

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-44320)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                            FOR A

                                    LAND FUND PROJECT




                                         March 21, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 22, 2006)

                                    Currency Unit = Quetzales
                                            Q7.60 = US$ 1
                                         US$ 0.13 = 1 Quetzales

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1     December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL                   Adaptive Program Lending
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
FAO                   Food and Agricultural Organization of United Nations
FMS                   Financial Management System
FONTIERRAS            Land Fund Institute (Fondo de Tierras)
GOG                   Government of Guatemala
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
MAGA                  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food (Ministerio de Agricultura,
Ganadería, y Alimentación)
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO                   Nongovernmental Organization
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
TA                    Technical Assistance

                                  Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                                Country Director:      Jane Armitage
                                  Sector Director:     Laura Tuck
                              Task Team Leader:        Nadim Khouri

                                        GUATEMALA
                                      Land Fund Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P054462                                                  Project Name: Land Fund Project
Team Leader: Nadim Khouri                                            TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Land Fund Project                                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-44320
   Country/Department: GUATEMALA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (54%); Roads and highways (13%); General industry and trade sector
                            (13%); Water supply (12%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Law reform (P); Personal and property rights (P); Rural markets (S);
                            Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/03/1997                                     Effective: 06/30/1999                07/26/2000
     Appraisal: 12/03/1998                                         MTR: 09/17/2002                  10/15/2002
      Approval: 01/07/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Nadim Khouri                                   Cora Melania Shaw
ICR Primary Author:             Zhong Tong


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the program -- for which this project was the first phase -- was to
assist the Government of Guatemala (GoG) to: (a) establish a program to facilitate beneficiaries'
access to land; (b) support beneficiaries' access to technical assistance and productive subproject
financing; and (c) improve the legal and institutional framework so that land markets can work
more efficiently.

In the context of the Peace Accords of 1996, the program would support land-related
commitments under the Socioeconomic and Agrarian and Indigenous Peoples sub-accords,
particularly on access to land. The Government had agreed with the Joint Commission on Land
on a ten-year program, which is reflected in a law (the "Land Fund Law" Number 24-99)
prepared in accordance with commitments under the Peace Accords.                  Accordingly, the
Government requested Bank support through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL).

The first phase (APL I) project's specific objectives were to help the Government to: (a) facilitate
beneficiaries' access to land; (b) help beneficiaries to access technical assistance and productive
subproject financing; and (c) initiate improvements to the efficiency of land markets in Guatemala.
Subsequent phases would build on lessons learned during this first project and expand both the
number of poor families that gain access to land and the types of market-friendly instruments to
promote land access.

The project development objectives were clear and realistic at entry. They were in line with the
needs of the country and the priorities of the Government as they aimed to implement key
stipulations of the rural development sections of the above-mentioned Peace Accords. As such,
the project was a key component of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No.
18036-GU, dated July 14, 1998) in particular with respect to two priority areas of the CAS: (i)
support to the country's Peace Accords and (ii) reduction of rural poverty and social exclusion.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective of the project remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four components. Three components received World Bank financing and
provided institutional strengthening support to the Land Fund as well as community strengthening
and direct productive investment support to low-income farmers. The fourth component was
entirely financed by the Government and consisted of providing credit to low-income, landless
farmers to purchase land from private owners.           All components were in line with the
Government's commitments under the Peace Accords and the subsequent Land Fund Law.

The components were directly in line with achievement of project objectives. The capacity of
implementation was a particular challenge because FONTIERRAS -- the institution charged with
executing the Land Fund program -- was a young institution; however, sufficient support was
included within the project to ensure strengthening of management and supervision capacity, both
in terms of the project as well as overall program activities.        The project design included
experience from other countries -- particularly from Latin America -- that had implemented


                                                - 2 -

policies to promote access to land by the poor. In particular, cross-fertilization with Brazil was
implemented early on in project design and maintained through implementation.

Total Project Costs: US$77.2 million (the sum of the World Bank loan plus counterpart fund).

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$2.0 million; US$1.9 million from IBRD and
US$0.3 million from GoG). This component supported the project management unit for the
Land Fund. This support included vehicles, office and field equipment, technical assistance and
training, and recurrent costs to carry out project-related activities, including: carrying out
culturally sensitive social communication programs related to the Land Fund's activities; training
Land Fund staff to manage contracts with agencies; setting up a land market information system;
carrying out legal research on land tenure and local land prices; carrying out environmental
evaluations of subprojects; carrying out the administrative aspects of project management,
including funds administration, management, and supervision; monitoring and evaluating of the
Land Fund activities, and financial management and project audits; and reviews.

Component 2: Community Strengthening (US$13.3 million; US$12.3 million from IBRD
and US$1.0 million from GoG).              This component provided pre- and post-land purchase
services. The component supported communities by providing legal assistance to (i) establish
their legal entity status, (ii) register land ownership, (iii) organize themselves according to their
uses and practices, (iv) review the legal status of prospective lands to be purchased, (v) prepare
investment proposals, (vi) access financial markets, (vii) contract technical advice for investment
planning and implementation once land loans were been approved, and (viii) follow-up on the
productive projects. The post-land purchase technical assistance grants ran for three years and
covered 100% of the technical assistance needs in the first year, 65% in the second year, and 30%
in the third year. This component also provided for interchanges between communities to benefit
from lessons learned, and scholarships for residents to gain technical expertise on relevant topics
related to rural development.

Component 3: Community Subprojects (US$9.7 million; US$8.8 million from IBRD and
US$0.9 million from GoG). This component financed social (e.g., small water systems) and
productive (e.g., access roads, community mills, storage and marketing facilities) complementary
infrastructure investments ­ via grants ­ related to land purchased under the program. To provide
maximum opportunities for income diversification and avoid adverse environmental
consequences, a negative list of ineligible investments was established. Productive investments
included both on-farm activities (intra-prediales) and off-farm activities (extra-prediales).
Activities were financed on a cost-sharing basis with beneficiary communities.

Component 4: Land Purchase and Lease (US$52.0 million; US$0.0 from IBRD and
US$52.0 million from GoG). The component, which was entirely financed from counterpart
funds, financed land purchases and land leases.          This would include financing directly to
beneficiaries (as part of initial grant) which is used to repay the loan, as well as transfer or other
taxes.

3.4 Revised Components:




                                                  - 3 -

Project components remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no initial QAG review of quality at entry, but the fifth Quality of Supervision
Assessment evaluated quality at entry as Satisfactory with respect to the realism and quality of
objectives and the agreement between components and objectives.

Overall, the quality at entry of the project was rated Satisfactory by the ICR review. The project
design was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in that it contributed to the
CAS's priority on support to the government program of equity transfer through the financing of
transparent subsidies for promoting land access through market-friendly instruments. Equity was
also promoted through decentralization and strengthening of community organization to carry out
productive subprojects. Consistent with CAS priorities, the APL and project design addressed
key sector issues: (i) poverty and land; (ii) community organization; and (iii) income sources and
job creation.

The APL and project supported GoG priorities, as demonstrated in part by the important level of
counterpart funding (i.e., 70% of project cost). The Government signed comprehensive Peace
Accords on December 29, 1996, ending thirty-six years of civil conflict. The project supported
the land-related commitments in the Peace Accords, including: (i) a land fund to promote
market-driven land reform; (ii) land conflict resolution mechanisms and free legal services with
special attention to land access and traditional land management by indigenous communities; (iii)
a national geographic information system; and (iv) a rural investment program.

The project supported key policy and institutional reforms by: (i) the Land Fund's unified access
to land program, as agreed in the Peace Accords; (ii) a market-based program, based on
willing-buyer/willing-seller (including leasing arrangements) principles. This was a departure from
traditional government-administered land reform or land distribution programs; (iii) the
Government's land financing program by integrating land purchases and leases with community
subprojects, including technical assistance and productive investments. The project was designed
in parallel with and as a complement to the Bank-financed Land Administration Project, which
focused on the cadastral aspect of land administration and the regularization of land ownership by
rural populations living on public land and entitled to receiving full ownership of that land.

Safeguard polices were adequately addressed as part of the design of the project. There were no
safeguard issues which were triggered during project implementation.          Also, the set of risks
identified at preparation was adequate and confirmed during implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcomes and achievements are rated Satisfactory. Key quantitative and qualitative goals
were reached, particularly with respect to (i) the increase in land access by the rural poor, (ii) the
implementation of farm-based economic activities, and (iii) institutional strengthening at various
levels of government and local community organizations. The economic and financial analysis
showed that the project was within the range of expectations that were generated at project



                                                 - 4 -

appraisal with respect to financial effectiveness as measured by the cost of the support to families
and farms. Farm-level increases in productivity in some cases require more time than originally
envisaged, but in general increases in productivity are expected to be sustained over the long term
(see Miethbauer, 2005). An FAO survey carried out in 2004 (Sare-Afridec 2004) indicated that
90% of interviewed farmers were satisfied with the assistance provided by the Land Fund. That
said, the Government decided against proceeding with a follow-on project under the APL
framework; instead, the Bank's program in 2005 is currently supporting innovative aspects of the
Government's rural development strategy through preparation of a second phase of the on-going
Land Administration APL (scheduled for Board presentation in early-FY07) and a project on
Rural Economic Development (scheduled for Board presentation on March 28, 2006), which will
aim to (i) increase competitiveness of rural economic activities by improving access and lowering
costs for transport, communication, financial and technical services; and (ii) enhance institutional
capacities to promote rural development and territorial competitiveness.

4.1.1 Facilitate access to land to beneficiaries. The Land Fund was established under the
principles contained within the Peace Accords. The Fund became the Government's principal
program for providing subsidized loans to low-income, small landholders as well as landless
families to purchase or lease land from large landowners. The program built upon lessons learned
from a small-scale program supported with USAID assistance, which financed a total of 30 farms
for beneficiaries in 1998 and 1999.

The project began implementation in 2001, with retroactive financing to cover activities
conducted in 2000. Originally, the quantitative target for the number of beneficiaries was set at
7,500 rural families.    Potential beneficiaries included rural poor, with special attention to
indigenous people and female-headed households. From 2000 to 2004, the project assisted
15,487 beneficiary families who acquired land through the purchase of 186 farms; in short, this
represents an actual achievement of more than twice the originally designed project goal. In
accordance with the project design, the implementing agency FONTIERRAS paid special
attention to marginalized groups. For instance, the project established a Women Farmers' Unit
within the Land Fund and staffed the unit with two indigenous professional women and assistants.
The Unit made it possible to reach project goals relating to gender and indigenous representation
among project beneficiaries. The Land Fund's Monitoring & Evaluation System indicates that
more than 30% of the beneficiaries were indigenous families, and more than 11% were
female-headed households.

4.1.2 Support beneficiaries to access technical assistance and productive subproject financing.
The project provided pre- and post-land purchase services, including legal, financial, and technical
assistance. The technical assistance was provided to support the efforts of communities to
increase their income-generating possibilities by focusing principally (but not exclusively) on
agricultural production through direct assistance to agriculture or through direct interventions
such as improvement of on-farm transport, irrigation system, etc. The groups of families that
acquired land received assistance in part through community subprojects. The impact of the
project's assistance was positive: according to an FAO survey carried out in 2004, 73% of male
beneficiaries and 57% of female beneficiaries declared they were better off than before they
purchased land (Sare-Afridec 2004).        The project financed 240 subprojects, of which 161



                                                - 5 -

subprojects supported productive activities and 79 supported social infrastructure. The
subprojects significantly improved productive facilities and living conditions. That said, average
land productivity has not changed significantly during these initial years of implementation, largely
due to (i) the need for newly-established families to attend to basic needs such as housing, water
supply, and schools, all of which delayed families from initiating productive activities; (ii) the fact
that many farms had been abandoned prior to purchase under the Land Fund, which implied the
need for significant time and financial resources to restore land productivity; and (iii) the technical
assistance aimed at increasing agricultural productivity was somewhat weak and plagued with
delays. However, this project ­ of slightly more than four years in length ­ was a relatively short
time to see increases in agricultural productivity.

4.1.3 Initiate improvements to the efficiency of land markets in Guatemala. The project
contributed modestly to the land markets in Guatemala through: (i) supporting large-scale
processing of market-friendly land purchases; (ii) establishing a database for the systematic and
regular input of purchases, starting with project-assisted transactions; (iii) providing public access
to the FONTIERRAS database, including the price and characteristics of land processed by
FONTIERRAS; and (iv) establishing a database containing information on land available for
purchase.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening.             The outputs of this component are rated
Satisfactory.

This component supported institutional development for FONTIERRAS by accompanying its
establishment and transformation from a project format to a permanent institution with a broadly
participatory nature. The FONTIERRAS Board of Directors is formed of representatives of the
key stakeholders in Guatemala--including representatives of indigenous groups, the private
sector, and other entities with an interest in land issues. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was
established under the FONTIERRAS General Manager who reports to a multisectoral and
representative board of directors. The PCU also assisted FONTIERRAS in the mobilization and
management of non-Bank funds (e.g., UNDP, Japanese, Danish).

Land Fund staff trained in technical and administrative aspects. This component supported
technical assistance and training for FONTIERRAS staff. Thirty-three workshops were held as
well as four training courses and five seminars, covering topics ranging from procurement and
disbursement, programming and database management, and land appraisal.                 To assist the
FONTIERRAS Board of Directors in the review and adoption of key reforms to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of land purchase loans, the project organized a study tour to Brazil for
key decisionmakers to learn from the experience of the Bank­assisted land access projects. Board
members indicated that the Brazil tour contributed significantly to the reforms which regulated the
rules and procedures of providing credit for land purchases.

Second, the project supported communication activities of FONTIERRAS, which were successful
in ensuring that potential beneficiaries of the Land Fund were able to access project-supported
technical assistance. In 2001, field agents and farmers were identified as the priority stakeholders
for information campaigns through radio spots, posters, leaflets, etc. Radio spots were in Spanish


                                                 - 6 -

as well as five major indigenous languages; similar activities were repeated in 2002.

Third, the Project contributed funds and technical assistance to the establishment of a legal unit
within FONTIERRAS. The main responsibilities of this unit were to give legal advice to potential
beneficiaries of the project as they proceeded with their application for FONTIERRAS support.

Fourth, environmental screening was required to ensure that land transfers had no negative impact
on the environment. The project provided funding for hiring external consultants to carry out this
screening as well as training to technical unit staff. The project also included an environmental
screening step to ensure that land transfers did not include sensitive land such as protected areas
or natural savannahs.

Market information system established and operational.           Since many institutions have been
involved in land transfers, a centralized land market information system was established under the
project. FONTIERRAS kept information/data on land transferred and/or processed through its
land access program. The Project supported the General Registry of Property (RPG) to establish
a system for collecting data on land transactions, and development of a website with information
on land price and location of land in FONTIERRAS' data base. The Government handled regular
data entry and website maintenance.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system established and operational. An M&E system was
established and began monitoring the program's impact, in addition to processes and results of
Land Fund and project activities. With respect to process monitoring, the Project's financial
management system performed well. The M&E system provided information for the mid-term
review and for the final evaluation of the project. In particular, important information was
available on key project performance indicators.         Of particular use was information on the
cost-effectiveness of the project and the characteristics of project beneficiaries. Baseline data on
beneficiaries' conditions, land characteristics, and land use history were among the core
information collected for each processed credit.        An independent study on household level
conditions of beneficiaries was conducted (Miethbauer 20005). A method to evaluate the changes
in land productivity was also demonstrated and mainstreamed in FONTIERRAS.

Component 2: Community Strengthening.                  The outputs of the component are rated
Satisfactory.

This component reached its objectives with respect to providing assistance to beneficiaries before
and after land purchase (or lease) in order to facilitate the process of land purchase as well as to
initiate productive investments.     In the process, social capital gains were achieved through
technical assistance, establishment of management and administrative structures in each farm, and
implementation of productive activities on the farms. Two of the specific indicators for this
component include:

l Number of communities with legal entity status. The project provided 186 groups of
    beneficiary farmers with legal and technical assistance to: (i) establish their status as formal
    entities; (ii) negotiate with land owners; (iii) register their ownership of land purchased; and



                                                 - 7 -

    (iv) organize themselves for productive activities and overall land use planning on their
    newly-acquired farms.

l Number of communities with formulated projects. All 186 farms that were transferred under
    the project received assistance for the formulation of productive or social infrastructure
    investment projects. For productive activities, the project covered 100% of the technical
    assistance during the first year of assistance to any given community or farm, followed by a
    decreasing contribution of 70% and 35% in years 2 and 3, respectively.

Component 3: Community Subprojects. The outputs of the component are rated Satisfactory.

The project used US$16.5 million (170% of the appraisal estimate) to finance social and
productive complementary infrastructure investments on the land purchased under the project.
The project supported 240 subprojects, of which 161 were productive subprojects and 79 were
social infrastructure subprojects. The productive subprojects were highly diverse, including inter
alia livestock production (59), cash crop plantation (30: coffee, cardamon, and pineapple),
agricultural mechanization (20), reforestation (14), irrigation (13), commercialization (16), and
storage facilities (6). The social subprojects included inter alia drinking water systems (17),
housing (20), urban centers (17), road repair and bridges (11), and community support (10).

The project followed a demand-driven approach for selecting subproject proposals. The selection
process utilized was transparent, involving the preparation of proposals by communities with the
help of project-supplied technical assistance, appraisal of proposals by the PCU, and final
selection and approval at the level of a Technical Committee.

More than 15,000 families benefited from the subprojects. Subprojects were rated as high quality
during supervision and by the beneficiaries.       Productive sub-projects contributed to income
generation by financing the purchase of inputs that contributed to increase farm productivity.
Social infrastructure subprojects provided quality-of-life investments that were originally
contemplated as inputs to be supplied by the channeling of other efforts ­ such as the Social
Investment Fund ­ to farms supported by the project. This inter-project coordination was difficult
to implement, however, and thus the social infrastructure subprojects compensated for this
deficiency.   Two low-income housing subprojects supported received a regional award for
excellence, the Premio Centroamericano a la Innovación Tecnológica y Ambiental granted by
the Comission Centroamericano de Ambiente y Desarrollo.

Component 4: Land Purchases and Lease.                The outputs of the component are rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

During the project, the Government allocated US$56 million (107% of appraisal estimate) to
FONTIERRAS to support land purchases, and a total of 186 farms covering 71,361 hectares
were purchased. A total of 15,487 families benefited from land purchases, with an average land
size per family of 4.6 hectares.

This component was fully financed by government counterpart funds through FONTIERRAS.



                                                - 8 -

According to the project design, a range of actual funding instruments could have been used
including: (i) land purchase credits; (ii) land leasing; (iii) individual credit; (iv) group/collective
credit; and (v) participation of commercial banks through guarantee funds. In practice, the fourth
method, group/collective credit for land purchases was the principal instrument used. Payments
were made directly from the Land Fund to the group which purchased the land. A portion of the
initial grant was used toward the first loan payment as well as for taxes.

Communities made various arrangements for dealing with repayment of land credits, including: (i)
the purchased land was divided by the members of the community, and each member contributed
cash to a repayment fund, commensurate to the size of land; and (ii) the community kept a piece
of land as collective property, and family members committed to working for an agreed amount of
effort and time on the collective land. The loan provided by the Land Fund had a four-year grace
period without payment of principal or interest, and an interest rate of 5% after the grace period.

Even though this component successfully reached its quantitative goals, the overall impact of this
success was mitigated by the overall institutional and policy context of access to land in
Guatemala. Two aspects of this deficiency were particularly problematic: (i) the absence of a
determined governmental policy for facilitating access to land through, for example, land taxes
and other interventions to promote land markets within an integrated rural development strategy;
and (ii) a pattern of political interventions into the actions of the FONTIERRAS Board of
Directors that led to accusations of non-transparent decisionmaking by the institution.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A full-scale analysis of ERR was not carried out for the ICR. A partial analysis of Net Present
Value and internal rate of return (see Annex 3) showed that increases in land productivity can be
expected to occur in a significant portion of the farms represented under the project, but at a
slower rate than initially considered at project design. In a small number of cases, expected levels
of land productivity may not be sufficient to cover the requirements for repayment of land
purchase credits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
With respect to cost effectiveness, a comparison was made of estimated costs per family and costs
per farm transferred -- estimated at project appraisal -- with the actual costs achieved during the
life of the project. Appraisal estimates indicated that the subsidy -- not including the land
purchase credit -- would total US$4,160 per family. In fact, each family received an average
subsidy of US$2,836, 68% of the amount estimated at appraisal. With respect to land purchases,
the amount borrowed from the Land Fund per family was US$4,686. In summary, the total
assistance per family averaged US$7,522, less than the US$9,160 total per family estimated at
appraisal. The average value of one hectare of land was Q7,627, equal to US$1,017, which was
comparable to estimates made at project appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's contribution to institutional development is rated Satisfactory.            The project
contributed to the establishment of a legal and implementation framework for key sections of the
Peace Accords related to access to land. The project successfully provided support to transform a
project-type entity into a full-fledged, participatory, and semi-autonomous institution



                                                 - 9 -

(FONTIERRAS). The project provided technical assistance and training support to
FONTIERRAS to strengthen its capacity, even before the project began implementation--when
the Bank and FAO financed three seminars for FONTIERRAS staff; these served to strengthen
staff capacity. The processing of applications was computerized, and a database was established.
The processing of credits became more efficient and the average processing time for credit
purchase applications dropped from 12 months to 8 months.

The Board of Directors has been monitoring the performance of FONTIERRAS. The Board
meets on a weekly basis to approve land purchases as well as to discuss and resolve related to
FONTIERRAS management, principally at the strategic and policy levels.

Mechanisms to monitor the processing of applications and loans were reviewed/improved by
FONTIERRAS to address potential risks of corruption. The project hired external consultants to
review the application process and to evaluate requests for land purchase loans. The study results
were reported to the Board of Directors, which enacted measures to reduce the risk of
interference in the selection of communities and the evaluation of loan applications. The Bank
provided external and internal (i.e., Bank staff) experts to assist the Board in defining policy
changes that would address perverse incentives in the processing of land access credits. This
culminated in the adoption of wide-ranging changes to the lending system. One of the key
changes was the establishment of a ceiling for overall financial assistance per family and the
linkage of assistance for land purchase with that of productive capital. This change meant that
beneficiaries had an interest in aggressively negotiating a lower price for their land as they would
be allowed to keep the rest of their allotment to invest in productive activities. The expected
results from this reform would include less possibility for corruption and collusion and pressure to
keep the land prices low, thus increasing the economic and financial outlook at farm level and for
the overall project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The national elections that took place in 1999 and the subsequent transition to a new
administration caused a nearly two-year delay in project effectiveness. The Board approved the
Project in January 1999. In March 1999, the Finance Commissions of the Congress received the
Government's request for approval of the Project. However, given national elections, the project
was finally approved by the Finance Commission in March 2000 and by the National Congress in
April 2000. The Government budget for counterpart fund was approved shortly thereafter, and
the project was declared effective on July 26, 2000, eighteen months after Board presentation.

Two other exogenous factors affected the project. First, the international coffee crisis that began
in 1999-2000 and continued throughout the entire project had a significant negative impact on
coffee farmers' income. Their revenues dropped and they had difficulty in planning for the
repayment of the land purchase credits from FONTIERRAS as well as making the required
productive investments. Second, in 2004, a serious drought in the southwest municipality of
Champerico affected farm production and reduced farmers' ability to repay their loans.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:




                                                     - 10 -

During project implementation, the Minister of Agriculture was replaced six times, causing
significant changes and policy reversals affecting implementation of the Land Fund and
compromising its longer-term strategies and sustainability.             However, FONTIERRAS
demonstrated its capacity to deliver services as provided in the Peace Accords and the Land Fund
Law, especially concerning poor families' access to land.

The participatory configuration of FONTIERRAS' Board of Directors had many good features,
but there were instances when pressure by interest groups represented on the Board led to poor
decisionmaking regarding credits and land purchases.           Also, the project-supported scheme
became--in effect--the only tool for promoting access to land through private-to-private
interactions.    Other policy interventions foreseen in the Peace Accords, such as the
implementation of an integrated rural development strategy, were not pursued by the authorities.
International and regional experience show that "willing seller-willing buyer" strategies, such the
one pursued by the project are most effective when supported by policies that promote the supply
of land through equitable land taxation and administration interventions.           These include
transparent policies on land expropriation ­ with fair compensation ­ that also increase the supply
of land on the market. In the absence of these accompanying policy interventions, the Project had
to confront a situation of excess demand on its services, increased political intervention, and
continuous upward pressure on the price of land purchased through FONTIERRAS.

Decision not to proceed with APL II: The 2004 elections led to a change in the presidential
administration and the reversal of the decision to proceed with a second phase of the Land Fund
APL.     This decision resulted from a joint review of priorities for Guatemala-World Bank
collaboration and as summarized in the CAS Completion Report of September 2004. The CAS
Completion Report highlights the "lack of government commitment during 2000-2003 to aspects
of the reform agenda laid out in 1998." Best-practice in APL implementation requires an optimal
level of continuity and supportive policy environment to move from a first-phase APL to the APL
II project. Joint Guatemala-Bank discussions during the CAS Completion Report showed that
there was a lack of such supportive policy environment for a second phase of the APL.
Fortunately, support for FONTIERRAS will be maintained through Bank-financed activities
mentioned in Section 4.1 above.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency's performance was a positive factor contributing to the project's
satisfactory outcome and implementation. Evidence of this performance includes:
     l      The PCU was established soon after project effectiveness and recruited qualified staff
            in finance, procurement, M&E, and technical disciplines. The project provided training
            to PCU staff in project management including financial management, procurement, and
            M&E. Supervision missions and interviews with beneficiaries as well as with
            FONTIERRAS Board members and staff indicated a high level of satisfaction with
            PCU staff.
     l      The PCU organized 41 training courses and workshops, processed a large number of
            contracts (110) for works, goods procured through NCB, and civil engineering design.
            They supervised all 240 selected subprojects in a timely manner.
     l      The PCU's supervision and reporting tasks were timely and included interactions with
            the FONTIERRAS Director-Manager's Office, the Board of Directors, and visiting


                                                    - 11 -

            Bank missions.           The PCU also sent its technicians to supervise subproject
            implementation. In addition, it hired an external supervision team to inspect all goods
            and works delivered.
     l      On average, the PCU coordinator spent at least five days per month supervising
            subprojects in the field. PCU­mandated specialists frequently stayed at the farms to
            supervise subprojects and assist in their operation.
     l      The PCU established a financial management system, financial auditing was performed
            by external firms and internal examiners on a timely basis, and no issues arose during
            project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project investment costs were US$80.1 million, which is 104% of the appraisal estimate.
The government's contributions to the Land Fund accounted for the increase (US$56 million
compared to the estimated US$50.6 million).            The cost of the community strengthening
component only reached 41% of the appraised amount, whereas the cost of the community
subprojects component reached 170% of the appraised amount. This is attributed principally to a
doubling of the number of farms that were actually transferred versus goals set at project
appraisal, and to the fact that all farms were in need of subproject investments.

5.4.1   Financial Management: Disbursements were delayed at the start of project implementation,
because of the above-mentioned delay in project effectiveness. By January 2005, the total IBRD
loan of US$23 million was fully disbursed. Full documentation on the Special Account advance
was completed in October 2005.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is considered Likely, but uncertain for one of the three aspects of
sustainability analyzed. These include::

1. Continuation of support to beneficiaries: The Government has prepared an action plan
    (included as part of its final report on the project) which indicates its commitments (i) to
    sustain assistance committed under the project to beneficiaries who purchased land and were
    in the process of receiving the complement of development assistance (e.g., grants for
    working capital, technical assistance), and (ii) to complete the processing of loans and
    productive support for those cases that were identified and whose applications were still being
    processed during the project's lifetime. The Government's action plan includes a commitment
    for items under (i) above that total US$9.5 million for 18 months between June 2005 and
    December 2006.

2. Long-term sustainability of FONTIERRAS: The Government indicated that (i) it remains
    committed to promoting broader access to land by the poor through the use of market-based
    instruments, and that (ii) support to FONTIERRAS will be maintained, albeit with a different
    mix of priority interventions which favor land leases.         Concerning land purchases, the
    Government's stated policy is to favor a less costly program than the one executed to date by




                                                 - 12 -

    FONTIERRAS, with increased involvement of commercial banks through guarantee funds.

3. Financial Sustainability of the Land Fund:              The refinancing of the debt incurred by
    beneficiaries of land fund activities that predate the Bank-financed project but which remains
    part of the present Land Fund is key for ensuring long-term financial sustainability. The
    Government has indicated its intention to address this issue in a manner consistent with the
    Bank's recommendations (see Annex 3 of Mission Aide Memoire of February 2004).
    However, because legal issues related to amending the original contracts are difficult to carry
    out, few of the initial activities related to the refinancing land purchases were implemented by
    the project closing date (e.g., definition of a detailed workplan for re-financing of debt,
    inventory and screening of default cases with respect to lack of capacity vs. lack of willingness
    to repay the debt, amendment to the legal status of ownership in order to facilitate
    re-financing).

It is highly likely that the first two aspects of sustainability will be achieved. However, on the
basis of information at the time of the ICR, it remains uncertain if the Government and the
FONTIERRAS Board of Directors will take to address the issue of refinancing debt that pre-date
the Bank-financed project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government and Bank have agreed on an action plan that includes as a priority the fulfillment
of commitments to project beneficiaries. (See above.)

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated
Satisfactory.

The Bank team worked closely with Government counterparts to identify and prepare the project.
The project design was consistent with the Government's rural development strategy and the
Peace Accords. Access to land is a core issue both in terms of conflict-management and economic
development for rural poverty alleviation. The Bank fully supported the government in initiating
and establishing the Land Fund. The project was designed to provide technical assistance to
strengthen the capacity of FONTIERRAS, since it was a new institution with little experience in
managing large programs, including a large amount of external funds. The design of community
subprojects was consistent with lessons learned in Guatemala and elsewhere that showed the
importance of accompanying access to land with funds for productive investments on newly
acquired land. The Bank also designed the project in parallel with another project that addressed
the legal and institutional framework of land ownership in Guatemala -- the Guatemala Land
Administration Project -- thus providing a strategic approach to land issues in the country. Also,
designing this project as the first phase of a longer-term APL is considered adequate, as certain
issues addressed by the Project require efforts that transcend a typical project's time horizon.
This is particularly true with respect to three aspects of the project: (i) achieving a significant
impact on land market promotion; (ii) increasing levels of farm productivity sufficient to ensure an
ability to repay debts and improve incomes; and (iii) implementing policy-level decisions to ensure


                                                   - 13 -

the long-term financial sustainability of FONTIERRAS.

The risks were, in general, correctly identified at design stage.        One safeguard policy was
triggered in this project -- Environmental Assessment -- and it was addressed in project design
through an environmental review and identification of specific operational requirements (e.g.,
selection of potential farms to be purchased, management of environmental review by
FONTIERRAS staff).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision is rated Satisfactory.         This is confirmed by two QAG supervision
reviews, both of which found supervision to be satisfactory. Since loan signature in April 2000,
two task managers have been responsible for the project. Bank supervision missions visited the
project at least twice a year.      During these missions, the Bank team regularly met with
FONTIERRAS' general manager, visited the project sites to interview farmers and obtain
feedback about the project, and met with members of the FONTIERRAS Board of Directors,
especially the Minister or high-level staff of MAGA. In addition, the Bank team worked closely
with the PCU to resolve problems as they occurred during project implementation. The Bank
organized cross-country exchanges of experience with Brazil and Honduras to support the
project's policy-level issues. Moreover, the Bank mobilized trust fund resources to strengthen
social and economic impacts of the project. The Bank's mid-term review, implemented as an
in-depth and virtual "reappraisal" of the project, led to the formulation of fundamental
recommendations for policy changes that were discussed with the FONTIERRAS Board; these
reforms were eventually adopted by FONTIERRAS.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation performance is rated Satisfactory.             RUTA provided technical
assistance to help the Borrower to prepare the project, allowing project preparation to move
smoothly and efficiently. Similarly, significant client leadership and ownership of the project was
evident throughout project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. [Note: The
Government implementation rating is rated as "Satisfactory" in Annex 6, due to the fact that the
current rating system in ICR does not permit nuances between "Satisfactory and "Moderately
Satisfactory". Under the new ICR rating system ("Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICR and
OED Evaluations"), due to take effect in late FY06, the Government implementation performance
would have been rated as "Moderately Satisfactory" in Annex 6.] The Government demonstrated
a high degree of commitment to the project by allocating significant funds -- US$56 million -- to
finance the project. However, the government's plans for FONTIERRAS changed significantly on
several occasions with the repeated changes in ministers, making it difficult to address issues of
strategic importance to the Fund and issues of: (i) basing Board decisions on assistance to rural
communities on transparent and objective criteria; (ii) addressing the Fund's long-term financial
sustainability; and (iii) implementing the full range of instruments for access to land outlined in the


                                                 - 14 -

project's design (e.g., land leasing). Because of these limitations, and although the Board had
adopted in early 2004 wide-ranging policy reforms along these lines, these reforms have yet to be
implemented.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency (PCU) is rated Satisfactory. The PCU ensured
coordination of all activities supported by Project funds. This included activities that were
implemented by other units within FONTIERRAS (e.g., units providing technical assistance to
project beneficiaries) as well as activities under the direct control of the PCU (e.g., design and
implementation of sub-projects at the farm level). The fact that the project exceeded its original
targets with respect to beneficiaries and investments in productive subprojects may be attributed
to the effectiveness of the PCU. Furthermore, there was continuity at the management level of
the PCU, allowing it to perform under the changing political conditions within the Government
and the Board of FONTIERRAS. Beneficiaries were invariably satisfied with the performance of
the PCU.

With respect to fiduciary responsibilities, the PCU put in place satisfactory financial arrangements
that met the Bank's requirements. Audited financial statements were provided to the Bank on a
timely basis and corrective actions were taken to resolve issues related to the improvement of the
internal control system identified by the auditors. For 2003 and 2004, the auditors issued a
qualified opinion on the project's basic financial statements due to the lack of community
counterpart funds in the financial statements. However, the auditors issued unqualified (clean)
opinions on the project's other financial statements. Similarly, on procurement, the PCU promptly
addressed issues identified during ex post reviews and dealt with procurement processes
according to Bank guidelines.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above assessments, the Borrower's overall performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Overall context: Although successful in reaching project development objectives, the project
    (and the Land Fund in general) was able to respond to only a fraction of the demand from
    beneficiaries. This was due to the fact that, except for a FONTIERRAS program on land
    regularization, the Land Fund became de facto the main instrument of land access facilitation
    in Guatemala; however, this was not its initial aim. Willing-seller/willing-buyer transactions
    are only one of a number of policy instruments that should be pursued in addressing problems
    of inequity in land access such as in Guatemala. Ideally, there would also exist conditions to
    implement complementary policies such as regularization of land ownership, land taxation,
    and similar interventions that would also promote the creation of a dynamic market for land in
    the country.

l Land-access       instrument:      The     governance    and    sustainability  of    participatory
    "willing-buyer/willing-seller" schemes for land access would benefit from the application of
    the following principles: (i) credit for land purchase is insufficient to increase beneficiaries'
    incomes and must be complemented with assistance to increase land productivity; (ii)
    beneficiaries should receive a fixed amount of assistance -- which could be set on a regional or


                                                - 15 -

    sub-regional basis -- with the possibility of converting the balance from their land purchase
    into productive investments; (iii) a menu of land access services should be actively offered to
    beneficiaries, including land leases, individual contracts, commercially guaranteed loans, etc.;
    and (iv) the Board of Directors of semi-autonomous entities such as FONTIERRAS must be
    subject to objective performance criteria and regular review.

l Farm-level issues: (i) a menu of land distribution and land use systems must be developed and
    offered to beneficiaries; (ii) technical assistance for increased farm productivity is vital and
    must be available upon project effectiveness, particularly in the absence of effective public
    sector extension programs; (iii) beneficiaries should have full control of and responsibility for
    the use of credits and grants; (iv) a limit should be imposed on the number of families per farm
    and efforts should be made to avoid the artificial creation of groups; and (v) housing and basic
    needs may have to be supplied upon the initial settlement of families in the acquired farms in
    order to free up funds for productive investments.

l Financial management issues:          (i) Need for a computerized Financial Management (FM)
    system: The lack of a computerized accounting system in the project resulted in the use of
    complex recordkeeping in Excel, placing additional demands on FM staff, increasing the risk
    of undetected errors, and limiting the availability of information.

l Monitoring and evaluation (M&E): Although FONTIERRAS' monitoring system contained
    useful data on processing and results indicators, there was no systematic method to assess
    project impacts. It would have been useful to have the M&E system in place before project
    implementation, but the original plans of contracting RUTA to implement M&E activities had
    to be abandoned because of procurement regulations.

l Land market information systems: The establishment of a land market information system
    proved particularly difficult and would require a well-established line agency with strong
    financial backing.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                  - 16 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Number and area of properties purchased,     100                             186
financed over a three-year period
Number of Beneficiary Families               7,500                           15,487
Average time elapsed from acceptance of an 540                               540
application to effective disbursement (days)
Average level of payment arrears (Q)         35,144                          35,144
Number of communities that received TA       186                             186


Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of Land Fund Staff trained            250                             250
M&E system is in place                       Yes                             Yes
The land market information system is in     Yes                             Yes
place
Number of communities with legal entity      186                             186
status
Number of communities with formulated        186                             186
projects
Number of communities with environmental     186                             186
mitigation
Number of staff members contracted for       5                               5
environmental technical assistance
Number of community subprojects              271                             271
% invested in road infrastructure            4                               4
% invested in irrigation systems             7                               7
% invested in productive activities          67                              67
Volume of land purchased (ha)                71,371                          71,361
Average land price (Q/ha)                    7,751                           7,751
% of female heads of households who          11                              11
purchased land
% of indigenous people who purchased land 30                                 30

1 End of project




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Table 2a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate     Estimate     Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Strengthening                                     2.0           2.0             100
Community Strengthening                                        13.3           5.4            40.6
Community Subprojects                                           9.7          16.5             170
Access to Land                                                 52.0          56.0             107

Front-end Fee                                                   0.2           0.2             100


Total Baseline Cost                                            77.2          80.1            103.7

Contingencies
                                      Total Project Costs      77.2          80.1            103.7
                               Total Financing Required         0.0           0.0


Table 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)



         Expenditure Category           Procurement Method


                                        NCB           Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
 1. Goods                               0.20            0.1           -           0.3
                                        (0.1)         (0.1)           -          (0.2)
 2. Consultant Services                   -             1.9           -           1.9
                                                      (1.8)           -          (1.8)
 3. Training                              -             0.1           -           0.1
                                                      (0.1)           -          (0.1)
 4. Community Subprojects                 -            18.0           -           18.0
                                                      (17.1)          -          (17.1)
 5. Technical Assistance Grant          0.00            3.6           -           3.6
                                                      (2.7)           -          (2.7)
 6. Land                                  -              -           51.0         51.0

 7. Front-end Fee                         -             0.2           -           0.2
                                                      (0.2)           -          (0.2)
 8. Incremental Recurrent Costs           -             1.0           1.2         2.2
                                                      (0.9)           -          (0.9)
                 Total                   0.2           24.9          52.1        77.20
                                        (0.1)         (22.9)                    (23.00)




                                                - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$ million equivalent)



    Expenditure Category     Procurement Method

                               NCB       Other 1/     N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Goods                       0.10        0.20        0.00          0.30
                              (0.10)      (0.10)      (0.00)        (0.10)
2. Consultant Services         0.00        2.70        0.00          2.70
                              (0.00)      (2.70)      (0.00)        (2.70)
3. Training                    0.00        0.10        0.00          0.10
                              (0.00)      (0.10)      (0.00)        (0.10)
4. Community Subprojects        1.5        15.0        0.00          16.5
                               (1.5)      (14.4)      (0.00)        (15.9)
5. Technical Assistance        0.00         3.6        0.00          3.6
Grants
                              (0.00)       (3.2)      (0.00)        (3.2)
6. Land Fund                   0.00        0.00       56.00         56.00
                              (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)
7. Front-end Fee               0.00        0.20        0.00          0.20
                              (0.00)      (0.20)      (0.00)        (0.20)
8. Incremental Operation       0.00        0.70        0.00          0.70
Costs                         (0.00)      (0.70)      (0.00)        (0.70)
           Total               1.60       22.50       56.00         80.10
                              (1.60)     (21.40)      (0.00)       (23.00)




                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR):

At project appraisal, an economic IRR of 23% was estimated based upon the projected increases
in land productivity and farm revenues in the newly acquired farms purchased through
FONTIERRAS credits and supported by Bank­financed technical assistance and productive
investments. The ERR of 23% represented a composite of regional IRRs that ranged from 7% in
coastal and southern regions of Guatemala, to 32% in the lowland areas of northern Guatemala.
At the mid-term review (MTR), a representative sample of farms was studied and farm-level
NPVs were estimated. It was concluded that in most cases, the level of productivity had not
increased to the levels estimated at appraisal. This was due to above-mentioned delays in getting
farms under production, the relatively high cost of land, the lack of working funds for production,
and a decline in commodity prices (e.g., coffee). At the time of the ICR preparation, it was
estimated that the economic evaluation carried out at the time of the MTR remained valid with
respect to the bulk of farms transferred through the project and thus a full-fledged re-estimation
of the IRR was not attempted for the ICR. Rather, a cost-effectiveness evaluation was done to
assess overall economic/financial performance.

Cost Effectiveness:

At appraisal, it was estimated that the production-oriented subsidies -- without counting land
purchase credits -- would total US$4,160 per family. In fact, each family received an average
subsidy of US$2,836, 68% of the amount estimated at appraisal. With respect to land purchases,
the amount borrowed from the Land Fund per family was US$4,686. The total assistance per
family therefore reached US$7,522, which was less than the US$9,160 total per family estimated
at appraisal. The average value of one hectare of land was Q7,627, equal to about US$1,017; this
was comparable to estimates carried out at appraisal. In conclusion, actual cost effectiveness (as
measured by cost per family or per hectare of land) during project implementation was found to
be comparable to estimates made at appraisal stage.

Financial rate of Return:

At appraisal, five farm models representing five geographic areas and common crop patterns were
developed for estimating the economic rate of return (ERR) and the financial rate of return
(FIRR). The assumption was that land productivity was limited by the availability of capital and
infrastructure, and with proper financial and technical support, the Land Fund would induce a
significant improvement in the use (quality and intensity) of acquired lands as well as their
productivity. The results were used to measure the economic benefit of the project, and the
financial viability of the farms. During project implementation, FIRR was also used as one of the
criteria in the case-by-case assessment of the feasibility of individual land transactions, in
particular with respect to the capacity to repay the loans given to beneficiaries. In principle, loans
would only be given to beneficiaries if the FIRR was greater than the discount rate of 12 percent.

During ICR preparation, the estimation of FIRR was extrapolated from the data collected during
the MTR. The estimation of projected increase in land productivity was based on farmers'


                                                - 21 -

interviews. Eight farm models were developed. This represented four farms in the south part of
the country: Apantillos, Sana Isabel, Veracruz, and Santa Elena. Each farm had two models with
different investment plans.     The models consisted of (i) production plan; (ii) the costs of
investment, operation, and financing (including land, production equipment, and necessary
working capital); and (iii) the capacity to be strengthened through training and technical
assistance.

The crop patterns in four farms were (i) in Apantillos: corn, beans, fruit, vegetables, and coffee,
(ii) in Santa Isabel: corn, beans, green beans, vegetables, coffee, and livestock, (iii) in Veracruz:
corn, beans, fruit, vegetables, coffee, and agro-forestry, and (iv) in Santa Elena: corn, fruit,
vegetables, and sesame.

The estimated results are shown in the table below:
                                         Incremental
                Financial Net Present    Production       Incomes after debt service
Model            IRR (%)  Value (US$)        (%)               (US$/family/year)
                                       Year 1   Year 5   Without    Year 1    Year 5
                                                          Project
Apantillos         37      1,569,279    275      1,024     360      1,426     3,053
Apantillos         20       637,331,
Alternative
Santa Isabel       54       400,693     840      1,350     587       666      3,373
Santa Isabel       35       323,603
Alternative
Veracruz           13        37,284     209       253     1,040      986        866
Veracruz           11       -40,475
Alternative
Santa Elena        22       742,422     188       521      293      1,440     1,013
Santa Elena        18       473,066
Alternative


As shown in the table, the incremental production in the fifth year would increase ninefold, and
household income, after debt servicing, would increase by 8.5 times in the case of Apantillos. The
crop pattern combination showed that the farm with livestock (Santa Isabel) had the highest
FIRR. However, in the case of Veracruz, the income after debt service was less than the estimated
income level of the "without project" scenario. One important conclusion of this analysis is that
the capacity of farmers to repay their loans -- while realistic in many cases -- cannot be taken for
granted.    Factors that are found to favor a high FIRR include: good quality land; strong
negotiating capacity at the time of land purchase; diversified cropping patterns; adequate technical
assistance; relatively small numbers of families per farm; and high social capital in the form of
social cohesion between families which pre-date their involvement in the project. However, even
under optimal scenarios, increases in land productivity appear to have been slower than expected
at project appraisal.




                                                - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/01/1997                     Task Team Leader (1);              S               S
                                             Agriculturalist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/13/1998              12     TTL (1);                           S               S
                                             Social Scientist (2);
                                             Fin. Mgt. Spec. (2);
                                             Agronomist (2); Economist
                                             (1); Operation Officer (2);
                                             Procurement Officer (1);
                                             Land Spec. (1)

 Supervision

              05/21/1999                4    TTL (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST          S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1); FIN.
                                             MGT. SPECIALIST (1)
              11/19/1999                2    TTL (1); FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1)       S               S
              04/28/2000                2    TTL (1); LAND SPEC. (1)            S               S
              08/31/2000                2    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)            S               S
              04/21/2001                2    TTL (1); CONSULTANT IN             S               S
                                             LAND ADMINISTRATION (1)
              09/15/2001                3    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT               S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL SPEC.
                                             (1)
              02/17/2002                3    TTL (1); ENVIRONMENTAL             S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); SOCIAL SPEC. (1)
              07/23/2002                4    TTL (1); FINANCIAL SPEC.           S               S
                                             (1); SOCIAL ASPECTS (1);
                                             RESIDENT
                                             REPRESENTATIVE (1)
              02/02/2003                3    TTL (1); LAND                      S               S
                                             ADMINISTRATION SPEC. (1);
                                             RESEARCH/M&E (1)
              07/13/2003                3    TTL (1); LAND ADMIN. SPEC.         S               S
                                             (1); POVERTY SPEC. (1)
              10/23/2003                3    TTL (1); LAND                      S               S
                                             ADMINISTRATION SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              02/18/2004                6    TTL (1); SOCIAL SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             COMMUN. SPEC. (1);
                                             REFINANCING SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             M&E (1)
              10/28/2004                2    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)             S               S




                                              - 23 -

               05/06/2005              2    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)            S    S

 ICR
               08/08/2005             2     TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1)            S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               53                        189.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    50                        289.4
  Supervision                          110.6                         590.6
  ICR                                     8.8                          42.6
  Total                                212.4                       1,111.6




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

FONTIERRAS, 2004. Reforma de Políticas Aprobadas por el Consejo Ejecutivo.

FONTIERRAS, 2004. Informe de Avance al 30 abril de 2004.

FONTIERRAS, 2003. Punto Resolutivo 24-2003 (Endorsing Mid-Term Review recommendations for
implementation).

Miethbauer, T. 2005. Inquesta de Hogares: Informe final de consultoría para el Banco Mundial, Proyecto
Apoyo al Fondo de Tierras.

World Bank, 2004. Land Fund Project--MidTerm Review Report, updated version.

World Bank, 2004. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6). QAG.

World Bank, 2002. Qualtiy of Supervision Assessment (QSA5). QAG.




                                               - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

1.      Objetivos del Programa

El Programa de Fondo de Tierras, se basó en el enfoque de acceso a la tierra asistido por el
mercado, buscó facilitar a campesinos con bajos ingresos el acceso a tierra, proporcionándoles:
préstamos para comprar tierras y subvenciones para proyectos productivos, asistencia técnica e
infraestructura complementaria. Se trató de incidir con este modelo, en mejorar la eficiencia de
los mercados de tierras.

Para el efecto se diseñó un programa de préstamos adaptable (APL, por sus siglas en inglés)
cuyos objetivos a largo plazo eran:

l Facilitar a los campesinos y campesinas sin tierra, campesinos y campesinas con tierra
    insuficiente y en situación de pobreza, el acceso a tierra a través de procesos de compra y/o
    arrendamiento;
l    Apoyar a las comunidades beneficiarias con asistencia técnica y subvenciones para el
    desarrollo de inversiones de apoyo a la producción; y
l Mejorar el marco legal e institucional para permitir que los mercados de tierras funcionaran
    apropiadamente.

Los resultados esperados al final del Programa eran:

l Un Fondo de Tierras completamente operacional;
l Comunidades beneficiadas organizadas legalmente, funcionales y con proyectos productivos
    en operación; y
l El modelo de acceso a tierras asistido por el mercado implementado y evaluado.

Se esperaba que los objetivos del Programa se alcanzaran a través de la implementación de tres
fases durante un período de aproximadamente diez años.
La primera fase se estimó, durante el proceso de diseño, que se ejecutaría durante el período
1999-2002, y su finalidad básica era el establecimiento del programa.

2.      Objetivos del Desarrollo del Proyecto

Los objetivos específicos del proyecto eran:


(a)   Facilitar el acceso a la tierra a los campesinos y campesinas elegibles según los criterios de la
      Ley del Fondo de Tierras, sus reglamentos y el Manual de Operaciones;

(b)   Apoyar a los beneficiarios con asistencia técnica y       subvenciones para el desarrollo de
      subproyectos productivos;

(c)   Iniciar las mejoras para la eficiencia de los mercados de tierras en Guatemala.




                                                 - 28 -

3.      Objetivos Revisados

Los objetivos iniciales no fueron modificados

4.      Componentes del Proyecto

(a)     Fortalecimiento Institucional, (costo total del componente US$ 2.2 millones; US$ 1.9
millones BIRF; US$ 0.3 millones Gobierno de Guatemala); incluyó apoyo para el desarrollo
institucional del Fondo de Tierras. Esto implicó la compra de: vehículos, equipo de oficina y
campo, equipo de cómputo, software, asistencia técnica y capacitación para el personal de
FONTIERRAS y costos recurrentes para llevar a cabo actividades relacionadas con el proyecto,
incluyendo: programas de comunicación social culturalmente sensibles; un sistema de información
del mercado de tierras enfocado en precios; investigación legal en la tenencia y precios locales de
tierras; aspectos administrativos de la administración del proyecto, incluyendo la administración
de los fondos del proyecto, dirección, supervisión, monitoreo y evaluación de las actividades del
Fondo de Tierras, sistema de administración financiera y auditorías.

(b)     Fortalecimiento comunitario (costo total del componente US$ 13.3 millones; US$ 12.3
millones BIRF; US$ 1 millón Gobierno de Guatemala) incluyó servicios previos y posteriores a la
compra de tierra. El componente apoyó a las comunidades organizadas a través de subvenciones
para: establecer su estado legal de entidad; organizarse de acuerdo a su usos y prácticas;
investigar el estado legal de las tierras que les interesaran; incluyó además apoyo en la preparación
de las propuestas de inversión, en la contratación de asistencia técnica para la implementación y
seguimiento de los proyectos productivos. La asistencia técnica post- entrega fue por un período
de tres años y cubrió el 100% del costo total el primer año, 65% el segundo y 30% el tercer año.
Bajo este componente se fomentó el programa de intercambio de experiencias entre comunidades
beneficiadas y otras entidades.

(c)     Subproyectos comunitarios (costo total del componente US$ 9.7 millones; US$ 8.8
millones BIRF; US$ 0.9 millones Gobierno de Guatemala) para garantizar financiamiento social
de inversiones de infraestructura complementaria social (por ejemplo sistemas de abastecimiento
de agua y conexiones de energía eléctrica) y productiva (como: caminos de acceso, centros de
acopio, sistemas de riego, etc.) con la finalidad de maximizar las oportunidades de diversificación
e incremento de ingresos. Los costes se compartieron con las comunidades beneficiadas en un
mínimo del 9%.

(d)     Compra de tierras y arrendamiento (costo total del componente US$ 52.1 millones; US$
52.1 millones Gobierno de Guatemala) fondos de contrapartida, no financiados por los
procedimientos del préstamo. Las compras de tierra y arrendamientos se financiaron a través del
fideicomiso del Fondo de Tierras. Incluyó una subvención inicial, la cual se utilizó para amortizar
los préstamos.

5.      Revisión de Componentes

Los componentes originales no sufrieron cambios durante la implementación del proyecto.



                                                  - 29 -

6.      Calidad al Inicio de la Implementación del Programa

Como paso inicial para darle tratamiento al tema de acceso a la tierra y en cumplimiento de los
Acuerdos de Paz, el 14 de mayo de 1997 mediante Acuerdo Gubernativo 392-97, el Presidente de
la República creó el Fondo de Tierras y su Unidad Ejecutora; a la vez instruyó a los Ministros de
Finanzas Públicas y de Agricultura, Ganadería y Alimentación, para que, en representación del
Estado de Guatemala como Fideicomitente, comparecieran ante el Escribano de Gobierno a
suscribir con el Representante Legal del Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agrícola ­BANDESA-,
como Fiduciario, la escritura de constitución del fideicomiso a denominarse "Fondo de Tierras
Acuerdo de Paz" con el objeto de promover el acceso de los campesinos a la tenencia y uso de la
tierra, con base en los principios y lineamientos del "Acuerdo sobre Aspectos Socioeconómicos y
Situación Agraria, suscrito el 6 de mayo de 1996.

Con el objetivo primordial de consolidar la paz y apoyar los compromisos adquiridos en los
Acuerdos de Paz, específicamente los relacionados con el acceso a la tierra, el Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento ­BIRF- inició en junio de 1997 una misión para
identificar un proyecto de apoyo al establecimiento del Fondo de Tierras.

En diciembre de 1998 el Ministro de Finanzas Públicas suscribe la Carta del Gobierno de
Guatemala para el Desarrollo del Programa del Fondo de Tierras en tres fases a implementarse en
un período de 10 años.

Posteriormente, en mayo de 1999, con el apoyo del Gobierno de la República, la Comisión
Conjunta de Tierras y la Comisión de Acompañamiento de los Acuerdos de Paz, el Congreso de
la República, mediante el Decreto Número 24-99 creó el Fondo de Tierras como una institución
de naturaleza pública, participativa y de servicio; instituida para facilitar el acceso a la tierra y
generar condiciones para el desarrollo rural integral y sostenible, a través de proyectos
productivos, agropecuarios, forestales e hidrobiológicos.

No obstante el proyecto se implementó durante la gestión de un nuevo Gobierno, se respetó el
diseño, el cual fue consistente con la estrategia de asistencia para el país (CAS por sus siglas en
inglés), reporte número 18036-GU de fecha 14 de julio de 1,998.

Es importante resaltar que gracias a que el préstamo se diseñó tomando en cuenta el contenido de
la propuesta de Ley del Fondo de Tierras, cuando esta última fue sancionada por el Congreso de
la República, se le otorgó un sustento legal y político adicional al Proyecto.

La oportuna coincidencia en el tiempo de la promulgación del marco legal del nuevo modelo de
acceso a la tierra, más la disponibilidad de recursos financieros a través del proyecto, permite
concluir que la calidad del proyecto al momento de iniciar su implementación fue satisfactoria.

7.      Logro de los Objetivos y Resultados

Los objetivos planteados durante el diseño en relación a la primera fase del programa fueron
alcanzados cualitativa y cuantitativamente, por tal razón se puede calificar la gestión del proyecto
como satisfactoria.


                                               - 30 -

Se logró la transferencia de tierras a familias que llenaban las características tanto de la Ley y sus
reglamentos como del Manual de Operaciones acordado con el Banco Mundial. Todas las
familias beneficiadas recibieron asistencia técnica y recursos adicionales para capital de trabajo y
para el desarrollo de inversiones productivas en las fincas.

Todas las transacciones de compra ­ venta se desarrollaron dentro del mercado, es decir, en un
proceso de libre negociación entre vendedores y compradores.

En la actualidad, gracias en parte a la implementación del proyecto, se puede concluir que El
Fondo de Tierras es completamente operacional, todos los grupos que han recibido créditos para
compra de tierras han contado con personería jurídica, salvo las excepciones planteadas por los
reglamentos internos (grupos menores de 10 familias) y finalmente el modelo de Acceso a Tierras
asistido por el mercado se implementó y ha permitido su constante evaluación.

8.      Resultados Obtenidos por Componente

Componente 1: Fortalecimiento Institucional. Los resultados de este componente se califican
como satisfactorios.

Tal como se mencionó supra, el Fondo de Tierras como institución descentralizada y autónoma,
surgió a inicios del segundo semestre de 1,999, durante el resto de ese año, se ejecutaron en
parte, los arreglos legales, financieros e institucionales necesarios para la conversión del
fideicomiso y el inicio de operaciones de la nueva entidad.

Sin embargo se requirió buena parte del año 2,000 para construir su plataforma institucional,
debido a varias razones, entre ellas:       el nombramiento de un nuevo gerente, el diseño e
implementación de una estructura organizativa y administrativa, el crecimiento acelerado del
personal de la institución causado por la incorporación de las actividades de regularización (no
financiadas por el préstamo), la implementación de procedimientos financieros y contables para
administrar el presupuesto de la institución, adecuación del Consejo Directivo, etc.

Pese a que el proyecto inició su implementación hasta octubre del 2000, la escasez de recursos
financieros y la imposibilidad de ejecutar procedimientos administrativos bajo la legislación
nacional, permitieron que el proyecto pudiera incidir favorablemente desde el inicio a través de la
compra de vehículos, equipo de cómputo, software y mobiliario, que se hubiera adquirido hasta
finales del primer semestre del año siguiente.

Dentro de las condiciones de efectividad se incluyó la elaboración de un Manual de Operaciones
que permitió sistematizar la atención de las solicitudes y fijar el marco legal de la aplicación de la
Ley y sus reglamentos.

Un marco de procedimientos consensuado y aprobado más la infraestructura básica, fueron los
aportes del proyecto a fin de que FONTIERRAS iniciara la atención masiva de las solicitudes de
crédito recibidas antes de la vigencia de la Ley.



                                                - 31 -

Por otra parte, la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto UCP, creada en marzo de 2000, se
constituyó en un elemento asesor tanto de la Gerencia como del Consejo Directivo e influyó
positivamente en la mayoría de procesos administrativos que darían forma a FONTIERRAS como
una institución clave en la ejecución de la Política Agraria del Gobierno.

El proyecto apoyó financiera y administrativamente el diseño y ejecución de una campaña de
comunicación social culturalmente sensible, cuyo fin básico fue posicionar a FONTIERRAS ante
la opinión pública y llegar a los beneficiarios potenciales a través de medios y formatos accesibles
a ellos, tomando en cuenta los diagnósticos de la demanda de tierra desarrollados durante la fase
de diseño del programa. La última fase implementada durante el año 2,003 tuvo como finalidad
difundir los resultados alcanzados con el modelo.

El proyecto fomentó y apoyó la contratación externa de los distintos estudios requeridos para el
trámite de las solicitudes, situación que permitió que la institución no creciera más allá de lo
necesario y que enfocara su atención en las etapas de evaluación y supervisión.

Adicionalmente se capacitó al personal de la institución en etapas claves como lo fueron la
aplicación del manual de          operaciones y en subsecuentes etapas de modificación de
procedimientos en base a lecciones aprendidas. No obstante, el impacto de las capacitaciones no
fue el esperado debido a la alta rotación del personal que se detalla en párrafos posteriores.

Elementos relevantes de capacitación fueron las políticas ambientales y de género que fueron
transversales en los procesos participativos de formulación de propuestas de inversión.

El sistema de información de tierras se basó en el hecho de que toda transacción de mercado
requiere de información relevante a fin de que las negociaciones de compra ­ venta se realicen en
un escenario balanceado entre los actores.

Para que toda propiedad ofertada, que fuera de interés para los beneficiarios se considerara dentro
de una solicitud de crédito, debía contar con una serie de estudios que permitieran contar con la
información relacionada con la legalidad de la propiedad, calidad de suelos, cultivos, activos
existentes, acceso, valor estimado, etc.

Con la ejecución de ellos se generó una serie de información relevante que permitió establecer una
base de datos de acceso público.

Es importante resaltar que a través del proyecto se financió la plataforma en la web donde se
publica la información de todas las propiedades compradas incluyendo: ubicación, extensión y
precio.

Tanto el manual de operaciones como la respectiva base de datos que registró la información de
todas las solicitudes presentadas por los beneficiarios se financiaron con recursos del proyecto.

Se recolectó información puntual sobre la línea base de los beneficiarios al momento del ingreso



                                                - 32 -

de las solicitudes que pudo compararse con la situación post entrega de las propiedades.

9.       Componente 2: Fortalecimiento Comunitario. Los resultados de este componente
pueden calificarse como satisfactorios.

Con la vigencia de la Ley del Fondo de Tierras, todos los grupos solicitantes debían organizarse
bajo cualquiera de las figuras reconocidas por la legislación nacional antes de acceder a un
crédito. Los costos de dicho proceso fueron absorbidos por los beneficiarios. El proyecto apoyó
en el diseño de un Manual de Capacitación y en el diseño de una Unidad específica que junto con
la Unidad de la Mujer Campesina (también creada con apoyo del proyecto) atenderían la fase pre
­compra.       La implementación de la mencionada Unidad de Capacitación pende aún de la
aprobación de la reestructura administrativa de FONTIERRAS.

Sin embargo, tal como lo estipula el manual de operaciones, los grupos recibieron asistencia
técnica para la formulación participativa de las propuestas de inversión que respaldaron las
solicitudes de crédito, así como para implementar la estructura administrativa acorde al tipo de
organización adoptada por ellos.

Todos los grupos que accedieron a créditos para la compra de tierras, en consistencia con La Ley
y el manual de operaciones, recibieron asistencia técnica para la implementación de los planes de
inversión presentados en cada solicitud. Es importante resaltar que dichos planes formulados en
la etapa pre compra, eran discutidos y actualizados al momento de trasladarse a las fincas
adquiridas, previo a recibir las subvenciones de capital de trabajo.

El modelo de acceso a tierra implementado implicó que todas las transacciones de compra venta
se plasmaran en escrituras ante notarios y registradas en el Registro de la Propiedad, lo que
constituye, a nivel nacional, la máxima expresión de la propiedad de un inmueble. Este particular
logro constituye un avance más que significativo en las prácticas estatales utilizadas para el acceso
a la tierra en programas anteriores.

10.      Componente 3: Subproyectos Comunitarios. Los resultados de este componente se
califican como satisfactorios.

La Ley de FONTIERRAS asumió que las demandas sociales y productivas de los grupos
podrían atenderse a través de instituciones tales como los fondos sociales. En la práctica no fue
así. Los riesgos identificados en el PAD se cumplieron (ver literal F. Sostenibilidad y riesgos, 3.
Aspectos Controversiales).

El componente además sufrió la presión derivada de los siguientes aspectos: a) la elección de los
beneficiarios de destinar aproximadamente el 50% de la subvención inicial para amortización a la
deuda; situación que redujo considerablemente la disponibilidad de recursos para capital de
trabajo e inversiones y; b) La atención del doble de familias calculada durante el diseño con el
mismo presupuesto.

Para ejecutar este componente, se respetó la decisión de los beneficiarios de priorizar las



                                               - 33 -

inversiones, con la asesoría de los entes prestatarios de asistencia técnica; esta situación implicó
que el proyecto apoyara 240 subproyectos de una amplia variedad y complejidad.

Esto influyó para que a partir del año 2003 la UCP trasladara a los beneficiarios mayores
responsabilidades durante el proceso de adquisición, específicamente para la compra de bienes e
insumos.    Los resultados obtenidos fueron más que satisfactorios por cuanto permitieron
incrementar el nivel de apropiación de los proyectos por parte de los beneficiarios.

En base al análisis de las prioridades planteadas por los beneficiarios y a los acuerdos suscritos
durante las misiones de supervisión del Banco, se acordó el desarrollo de dos proyectos
habitacionales pilotos que permitieran identificar alternativas de bajo costo para atender esta
latente demanda.

De tal cuenta se utilizaron dos alternativas, a saber: bambú y terracreto, los resultados obtenidos
fueron altamente satisfactorios por cuanto los costos de construcción demostraron ser
considerablemente inferiores a las tecnologías tradicionales a la vez que se desarrollaron en
localidades de difícil acceso.

Por el desarrollo de estos proyectos se obtuvo el "Premio Centroamericano a la Innovación
Tecnológica y Ambiental" otorgado por el Consejo Centroamericano de Ambiente y Desarrollo
en la categoría de innovación ambiental.

11.     Componente 4: Compra y Arrendamiento de Tierras. Resultados del Componente se
consideran satisfactorios.

El componente se financió exclusivamente con recursos de contrapartida.               El mecanismo
acordado durante la etapa de diseño no sufrió modificación alguna.

Aún cuando el escenario ideal implicaba la existencia de mecanismos complementarios tales
como: arrendamiento con o sin opción de compra, crédito a individuales, fondos de garantía para
incorporar recursos de la banca privada, etc., estos no fueron implementados durante la vigencia
del proyecto.

Pese a lo anterior se sobrepasaron en un 100% las metas originales en cuanto a número de grupos
y familias beneficiadas. La asignación presupuestaria de contrapartida sobrepasó lo programado
en el Convenio de Préstamo.

Todas las transacciones fueron respaldadas con estudios que permitían identificar claramente la
calidad de las fincas ofertadas a fin de negociar precios razonables. FONTIERRAS fue un
observador del proceso de negociación entre vendedores y grupos de campesinos compradores.

Un porcentaje superior al 40% de los beneficiarios es catalogado como víctima del conflicto
armado (desplazados, desmovilizados y desarraigados).

Tal como se planteó en los objetivos de diseño, el modelo de acceso a tierras a través del mercado



                                                - 34 -

fue implementado y evaluado, en el proceso surgieron importantes lecciones, que son
fundamentales para fundamentar la política agraria del país, particularmente la relacionada con el
acceso a tierra. Indudablemente el Programa sirvió para la consolidación de los Acuerdos de Paz
y contribuyó sustancialmente a mantener la gobernabilidad durante el período post conflicto.

Al final del proyecto es importante resaltar que, dadas las características del país, el precio de la
tierra representa el mayor porcentaje del costo del modelo, lo que implica menos disponibilidad
para recursos de inversión, por tal razón, el despegue económico de las fincas toma un tiempo
mucho mayor que el esperado originalmente.

12.     Factores que Afectaron la Implementación y los Resultados

12.1    Exógenos

Originalmente la fecha de efectividad prevista fue el 30 de junio de 1999.

El proyecto fue sometido a consideración de la Comisión de Finanzas Públicas del Congreso de la
República en marzo de 1,999. Esta Comisión emitió dictamen favorable en agosto de ese año,
pero debido a que se encontraban próximas las elecciones generales no fue sometido a
consideración del pleno del Congreso.

En febrero de 2000 nuevamente se somete a consideración de la Comisión quien dictaminó
favorablemente y lo trasladó al Pleno. En abril el Congreso emite el Decreto Legislativo 11-2000
que autoriza la suscripción del convenio de préstamo; acto que se celebra el 27 de abril de ese
año.

Las condiciones de efectividad ya habían sido cumplidas, sin embargo, debido a que en mayo de
1999 fue sancionada la Ley del Fondo de Tierras, fue necesario suscribir el Convenio Subsidiario
a que se hace mención en la cláusula 3.08 del convenio de préstamo. Fue necesario además
modificar la escritura constitutiva del Fideicomiso Fondo de Tierras Acuerdo de Paz, con lo que
el proyecto es declarado efectivo el 26 de julio de 2000; 13 meses después de la fecha prevista.

Aunque los primeros desembolsos se recibieron en octubre de 2000, la ampliación presupuestaria
que permitía la ejecución de los recursos es publicada en el Diario Oficial el 28 de diciembre de
ese año. Por tal razón la ejecución real del proyecto se inicia a partir de enero de 2001, dieciocho
meses después de la fecha planificada.

Otro factor de sustancial impacto fue la crisis del café toda vez que impactó negativamente en los
ingresos de los campesinos y requirió de la inversión de recursos adicionales para reconvertir
fincas con café de "baja altura".

Crisis ambientales regionales también influyeron negativamente, particularmente en la región Sur
del país.

12.2    Endógenos



                                                - 35 -

Desde la fase de negociación hasta el cierre del proyecto, seis ministros estuvieron a cargo del
Ministerio de Agricultura, situación que atentó contra la estabilidad de los planes de trabajo y
estrategias institucionales, adicionalmente siete Gerentes Generales estuvieron a cargo de la
institución, lo que ocasionó una alta rotación del personal clave a nivel de mandos medios. Esto
dificultó la adopción de planes de trabajo a mediano y largo plazo.

No obstante la dirección de la UCP no sufrió cambios desde su creación hasta el cierre del
proyecto, lo que permitió balancear la inestabilidad institucional.

La UCP realizó cerca de mil procesos de adquisición y más de quinientos contratos, además
procesó cerca de cinco mil pagos. Su gestión fue clave para el desarrollo tanto del proyecto
como del Fondo de Tierras.

13.     Sostenibilidad del Modelo

Durante la última misión de supervisión realizada en agosto de 2005, se acordó un plan de acción
en el cual se detallaban los compromisos del Fondo de Tierras en: a) Cumplir con el período de
asistencia técnica de todos los grupos que accedieron a créditos durante la vigencia del proyecto,
b) Desembolsar el capital de trabajo pendiente de entrega y;        c) Continuar con el proceso de
trámite de las solicitudes de crédito presentadas antes de la fecha de cierre.

En cuanto a la gestión de FONTIERRAS la tendencia, en base a las lecciones aprendidas, es
orientar las acciones hacia nuevos mecanismos de acceso a la tierra tales como el arrendamiento
con o sin opción de compra, así como la incorporación de recursos de la banca privada con el
soporte de fondos de garantía.

La recuperación de la cartera que permitiría la sostenibilidad financiera del modelo dependerá de
la viabilidad legal de la modificación de las condiciones de los créditos otorgados antes de la
vigencia de la Ley, y de un proceso sólidamente fundamentado de revisión de los rendimientos de
las propiedades adquiridas por los campesinos, con la finalidad de ajustar los plazos de los
créditos.

La vulnerabilidad de las actividades agropecuarias a catástrofes ambientales se ratificó con los
fenómenos de "Mitch" y recientemente "Stan", esto necesariamente requerirá de esfuerzos
adicionales de FONTIERRAS hacia la vinculación de los productores a mecanismos formales de
seguros.

14.     Ejecución Financiera del Programa

El proyecto logró la ejecución del 100% de los recursos en un plazo más que aceptable (18 meses
adicionales al plazo acordado en el diseño), tomando en cuenta las limitantes de espacio
presupuestario y los factores descritos en el punto 12. La ejecución y su variación con el
presupuesto original se detallan en el siguiente cuadro:




                                                - 36 -

                     Categoría                     Presupuesto       Ejecutado      Variación
                                                     original
       Bienes parte A + B1                                200,000        179,575          90%
      Subvenciones                                     17,100,000     16,362,491          96%
      Subvenciones para asistencia técnica              2,700,000      3,243,405         120%
      Consultorías                                      1,600,000      2,442,714         153%
      Capacitación                                        100,000        105,603         106%
      Costos de operación y salarios                      900,000        440,211          49%
      Fee                                                 226,000        226,000         100%
       Sin asignar                                        174,000
                                      Totales          23,000,000     23,000,000         100%

Las variaciones sustanciales obedecieron a la mayor atención de familias que implicó: mas
asistencia técnica, más estudios para aprobación de créditos (consultorías) y la utilización de
recursos adicionales de contrapartida para la atención de las subvenciones. Es importante resaltar
la economía en la utilización de los costos de operación.

15.    Lecciones Aprendidas

Derivado del proceso de atención de la demanda de tierra en Guatemala, bajo el marco de los
Acuerdos de Paz y mediante un modelo no experimentado por el país, es importante resaltar lo
siguiente:

l El modelo se explica a través de la ecuación: créditos para compra de tierra + recursos para
    capital de trabajo + asistencia técnica; no obstante los insumos deben de ser coordinados en
    tiempo a fin de lograr mejores resultados.
l Los objetivos del modelo deben de ser claros en el sentido de definirlo como un mecanismo de
    generación de desarrollo o uno de reivindicación de derechos históricos. Por ende los
    recursos deben de asignarse de acuerdo al objetivo definido. El modelo como alternativa para
    generar el desarrollo rural, requiere mucha mas inversión y por lo tanto tiene un nivel de
    cobertura limitado.
l Generalmente el proceso de adquisición de tierras implicó la creación de nuevas comunidades.
    Las fincas ofertadas no cuentan con la infraestructura social adecuada para recibir una carga
    habitacional como la que se generó con el modelo, por lo que, inversiones adicionales deben
    incorporarse como parte del mismo para lograr mejores resultados (agua, escuelas, vivienda,
    energía eléctrica, etc.).
l El costo de atención por familia fue inferior al considerado en la fase de diseño. No obstante
    para que el modelo tenga el impacto necesario debe incorporar recursos adicionales para la
    atención de las demandas de infraestructura social inherentes al proceso de creación de nuevas
    comunidades.
l Aún cuando el espíritu de la Ley del Fondo de Tierras fomenta tanto la propiedad como el
    trabajo colectivo, la experiencia demuestra que la propiedad individual es preferida por los
    campesinos y facilita la comprensión del nivel de deuda por familia.



                                                 - 37 -

l La entrega de las fincas a grupos organizados complica la administración de recursos y
   rendición de cuentas a los campesinos dados sus niveles de escolaridad, razón por la cual la
   asistencia técnica debe de incorporarse más temprano en el proceso.
l Los tres años de asistencia técnica contemplados en la Ley son insuficientes. El tiempo
   necesario para que las familias se trasladen, para atender conflictos organizacionales y
   desarrollar infraestructura social mínima, entre otras actividades, hace que durante los
   primeros dos años no puedan atenderse las actividades productivas con la dedicación
   necesaria.
l Dado la debilidad de los servicios de extensión agrícola públicos, la asistencia técnica es de
   suma importancia para el éxito del modelo, esfuerzos adicionales deben realizarse para
   fortalecer la capacidad instalada de servicios de asistencia técnica en el país, en especial por la
   connotación multidisciplinaria que un caso típico requiere. Un aspecto que debe fortalecerse
   sustancialmente es la comercialización.

El proyecto del Fondo de Tierras contribuyó sustancialmente a atender un tema de alta
conflictividad en el país a través de un nuevo modelo. Suficiente experiencia se generó, de la cual
el Gobierno de Guatemala debe valerse para definir la Política Agraria del país para los años
venideros.




                                               - 38 -

- 39 -

