Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18555-GU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FORA
LAND FUND PROJECT
December 3, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 26, 1998)
Currency Unit      Quetzales
Q6.30       US$1
US$0.16  =   I Quetzal
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONTIERRA        Presidential Office for Land Conflict Resolution
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
FIS              Social Investment Fund
FMS              Financial Management System
FONAPAZ          Peace National Fund
GoG              Government of Guatemala
INTA             National Institute for Agrarian Transformation
IUSI             Unified Real Property Tax
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative
MAGA             Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food
MINUGUA          United Nations Mission for Guatemala
MOF              Ministry of Finance
NGO              Non-Government Organizations
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PMR              Project Management Reports
PROTIERRA        Institutional Commission for the Strengthening and
Development of Land Property Rights
RGP              General Property Registry
RUTA             Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SEGEPLAN         National Planning Secretariat
SEPAZ            Peace Secretariat
USAID            U.S. Agency for International Development
UTJ              MAGA's Technical and Legal Unit
Vice President: S. Javed Burki
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Team Leader: Cora Shaw



Guatemala
Land Fund Project
CONTENTS
A: Program Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Program   development objectives ..................................................................2
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................................2
B: Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector Related Country-Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .......2
2. Main  sector issues and  Governm ent strategy ................................................................2
3. Sector issues to  be addressed by the project and  strategic choices .................................3
C: Project Description Summary ..................................................................4
1. Project components ..................................................................4
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................5
3. Benefits and target population .....................                               .............................................5
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ................................................                              . . 6
D: Project Rationale ................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ...............................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..........7
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in the project design ........................................................8
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................... 9
5. Value added of Bank support ...........................................................9
E: Summary Project Analysis .................................................................9
1. Economic Assessment .................................................................9
2. Financial Assessment ................................................................                                                 10
3. Technical Assessment ................................................................                                                 10
4. Institutional Assessment ................................................................                                              11
5. Legal ................................................................                                                                11
6. Social Assessment ................................................................                                                    12
7. Environmental Assessment ................................................................                                             12
8. Participatory  Approach ................................................................ 13
F: Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                         13
1. Sustainability .......................                                                                                                13
2. Critical Risks .......................                                                                                                14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: .......................                                                                              14
G: Main Loan Conditions .............................                                                                                                15
1. Effectiveness Conditions: ............................. 15
2. Other .............................. 15



H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                        15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .15
Annexes
Annex I A.   Program Design Summary
Annex I B.   Adaptable Program Lending-Government Letter of Development Program
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Management Analysis
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Summary of Social Assessment



Page I
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America Department
Date: December 3, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Cora Shaw
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo         Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: 54462          Sector: Agriculture          Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan              Program of Targeted Intervention:    [XI Yes   [  No
Program Financing Data
Phases:                     Cost (US$million)              GoG                      IBRD             Beneficiaries
1. First Phase                    77.2                     52.5                      23.0                 1.7
2. Second Phase                   77.2                     52.5                      23.0                 1.7
3. Third Phase                     77.2                    52.5                      23.0                 1.7
Total          231.6                    157.5                     69.0                 5.1
Borrower: Republic of Guatemala
Responsible agency: Land Fund
Program Implementation Period: 1999/2010   Expected Effectiveness date 6/30/99  Expected Closing Date: 12/31/2010
Project Financing Data               [x]    Loan     [     Credit      I      Guarantee     [    Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $23 million
Proposed Terms:                                [3   Multicurrency         [x I  Single currency US$
Grace period (years): 5              [     Standard Variable    [    Fixed               tx]    LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end Fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                Local                Foreign          Total
Government                                                            52.5                     -             52.5
Beneficiaries                                                          1.7                     -              1.7
IBRD                                                                  21.5                    1.3
Front-end Fee                                                                                 0.2            23.0
Total                                      75.7                   1.5            77.2
Borrower: Republic of Guatemala
Responsible agency: Land Fund
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):         1999/2000   2000/2001   2001/2002
Annual       7.5         7.5          8.0
Cumulative      7.5          15.0        23.0
Expected effectiveness date: 6/30/99                                                          Closing date: 12/31/2002



Page 2
A: Program Development Objective
1. Program development objectives
The objectives of the program are to assist the GoG: (a) to establish a program to facilitate access to land to
beneficiaries; (b) support beneficiaries to access technical assistance and productive subproject financing;
and (c) improve the legal and institutional framework for land markets to work more efficiently.
The program would support land-related commitments under the Socioeconomic and Agrarian and
Indigenous Peoples sub-accords, particularly on access to land. The Government has agreed with the Joint
Commission on Land on a ten-year program, which is reflected in a bill of law prepared in accordance with
Peace Accord commitments. Accordingly, the Government had requested Bank support through an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The program will have three phases to be implemented over a period of
ten years.
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex I):
The project's specific objectives are to assist the GoG to: (a) facilitate access to land to beneficiaries; (b)
support beneficiaries to access technical assistance and productive subproject financing; and (c) initiate
improvements to the efficiency of land markets in Guatemala.
Key performance indicators
* Number and area of properties purchased, financed over a three-year period
* Number of beneficiary families
* Change in land productivity in parcels of beneficiaries. This indicator will be measured using land
information household surveys with a baseline recorded at the beginning of the Project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector Related Country-Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 18036-GU          Date of latest CAS discussion: July 14, 1998
T'he central theme of the Guatemala CAS is to consolidate peace, supporting programs designed to end the
exclusion that has characterized Guatemala's dualistic society and economy. Within this broad theme, the
Bank will work on four fronts, one of which is to redu ce poverty and exclusion. Land ownership structure
in Guatemala is one of the most skewed in the world, with a Gini coefficient of 0.85 in 1979 (LAC average
is 0.79, World average is 0.64); and lack of access to productive assets is one of the main constraints to
poverty alleviation. The project would support a Government program of equity transfer via financing of
transparent subsidies as well as support decentralization through community organization and strengthening
to carry out productive subprojects. Due to its importance and the effect that it will have on other land-
related initiatives, the project is a priority for the GoG and is specifically included in the Peace Accords.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
a) Poverty and Land Issues: In Guatemala, most poverty is rural: poverty afflicts over 75% of the
population, 86% of the rural population and 93% of the indigenous population. Land issues were identified
in the CAS and other reports as key for poverty alleviation. These issues include land distribution. Studies
of land markets in Guatemala and other Central American countries indicate they are mostly local
(transactions occur among people in same locality) and segmented (transactions occur among people of
same socio-economic grouping), due to informational constraints and other transaction costs



Page 3
b) Community Organization: Because the scattered nature of rural populations, direct targeting to
communities for management and implementation of subproject streamlines decision-making process.
c) Income sources diversification and job creation: Agriculture is the main source of income and jobs in the
rural economy, particularly among the indigenous and the poor. Lack of technology and access to income
diversification opportunities trap these populations in low-value added activities. Therefore, to create more
options for the communities, all community investments would be eligible except those on a negative list.
Government Strategy:
Guatemala signed a comprehensive Peace Accord on December 29, 1996 to end thirty-six years of civil
conflict. The Accord supports establishing democracy and introducing economic policies which will foster
sustainable growth. The overriding approach to fulfilling the Peace Accord objectives is a participatory
methodology that could promote convergence in a society highly fractioned by long-standing perceived
conflicts. The land-related commitments include: (i) a cadastral-based land registry, to be decentralized,
multi-user, efficient and financially sustainable in the long run; (ii) a land fund to promote market-driven
land reform; (iii) land conflict resolution mechanisms and free legal services with special attention to land
access and land traditional management by indigenous communities; (iv) a national geographic information
system; (v) a comprehensive land tax system; (vi) agricultural development; and (vii) rural investment
programs. This proposed project supports (ii), (iii), (vi), and (vii) above in an integrated manner focusing
on communities' priorities and needs.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues to be addressed by the project:
(a) Poverty and land issues. The project would address the locality and segmentation constraints on land
markets for poor communities. The proposed project would aim to relax the locality constraints by
providing market information and the segmentation constraint by grouping beneficiaries to access land
which is normally owned by a higher socioeconomic group. The locality constraint is less binding in
Guatemala than in more land abundant countries, as many families move seasonally from high-density,
land-scarce Highlands to rented land on the Coast or the Northern Lowlands.
(b) Community organization. The project will address this issue in two ways: (i) providing institutional
strengthening to the Land Fund to better target and serve poor communities, including indigenous, and (ii)
providing technical assistance and training to communities to carry out investment subprojects.
(c) Diversification. The project would support community subprojects. These would cover all options
excluding investments in a negative list.
Strategic choices include:
a) National vs. Regional coverage. Although the first phase of the program coverage is limited in terms of
number of beneficiaries, it was decided against a regional targeted program which may raise land prices in
the area. The advantage of a national program is to provide land seekers with more options and reduce
potential for speculation arising from access to local information. The proposed project includes the
establishment of a land market information system which would also contribute to breaking the locality
constraint observed in many land markets.
b) A direct subsidy for land purchase. Review of the Colombian example, where Law 160 provides a 70%
subsidy for land (with a ceiling) reveals that this subsidy benefits mostly selling landowners. In
Guatemala, the subsidy is not linked to the land purchase but to the beneficiary families, allowing them to
maximize the utility of its allocation according to their individual priorities. Note that the Bank does not
fnance land purchases.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                  Category     Cost Incl.    % of  Bank-financing    Bank-
Contingencies   Total     (US$m)      financing
(US$m)                                (f.)
a) Institutional Strengthening, including  Technical     2.2         2.8         1.9         85.8
institutional development for the Land  Assistance,
Fund. This would include vehicles, office    Training,
and field equipment and technical assistance  Equipment,
and training, and recurrent costs to carry  Goods,
project related activities, including: carry  Recurrent
out culturally sensitive social        Costs
communication programs; train LF staff to
manage contracts to NGOs and intermediary
agencies; carry out environmental
screening; set up a land market information
system focusing on price; carry out legal
research on land tenure and local land
prices; carry out the administrative aspects
of project management, including
administration of project funds,
management, supervision; and carry out
monitoring and evaluation of the Land Fund
activities, and financial management system
and project audits, and reviews.
b) Community Strengthening involving   Technical         13.3       17.2        12.3         92.5
pre- and post- land purchase services. The   Assistance
component would support communities by
providing: legal assistance for, inter alia,
establishing their legal entity status, so
registering ownership on land, organizing
themselves according to their uses and
practices, to conduct research of legal status
of prospective lands to be purchased; to
prepare investment proposals, access rural
financial markets, contract technical advice
for investment planning and implementation
once land grants have been approved, and
follow up on the productive projects. The
post-land purchase technical assistance
grants would run for three years and would
cover 100% on the first year, 65% on the
second year, 30% on the third year. This
component would also provide for
communities access to exchanges with other
entities, and scholarships for their members
to gain technical expertise.



Page 5
Component                 Category      Cost Inc.     % of  Bank-financing    Bank-
Contingencies   Total     (US$m)      financing
(USSm)                              ff.)
c) Community Subprojects to grant-finance   Physical     9.7       12.5         8.8           91
social (e.g. small water systems) and  (Civil
productive (e.g. access roads)         works,
complementary infrastructure investments   goods, and
related to land purchased under the program. materials)
To provide maximum opportunities for
income diversification, there will be a
negative list of investrnents which cannot be
financed by the project. There would be
cost-sharing with the beneficiary
communities of a minimum of 9%.
d) Land purchases and leases supported by    Physical   52.1        67.4         0            0
the Land Fund would be part of the     (Land)
counterpart funds, not financed by the loan
proceeds. These land purchases and leases
could be financed by the Land Fund trust
fund. This would include financing directly
to beneficiaries (as part of initial grant)
which is used to repay loan, as well as
transfer or other taxes.
Total         77.2        100         23.0         29.7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
There are three key main reforms supported by the project:
1. the Land Fund unifies access to land programs (and one institution), as agreed in the Peace Accord. This
is mandated in the draft Land Fund bill of law (see Section 4 below: Institutional and implementation
arrangements);
2. the project is supporting a market-based program, based on willing-buyer willing-seller (including
leasor) principles. This is a departure from traditional government-administered land reform or land
distribution programs
3. the project supports the Government's land financing program by integrating land purchases and leases
with community sub-projects, including technical assistance and productive investments.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main project benefits would be:
(a) consolidate peace by supporting Peace Accord commitments on access to land in a manner agreed with
all parties; and
(b) provide technical assistance, training and complementary investments to beneficiaries of the
Government's Land Fund program.
Target population in this first phase would be about 7500 poor rural families, constituted by organized poor
rural communities which lack sufficient land to carry out land-based productive activities. Potential
beneficiaries are to be rural poor, land poor, or landless and actual beneficiaries are selected based on a
proposal for productive projects by social, economic and environmental criteria, including sufficient cash-
flow to repay land purchase debts. Land with conflict title or invaded would not be eligible for the
program. According to the Social Assessment, to August 1998 the Land Fund has received 287 requests
for land purchase financing throughout the rural areas, and 30 requests have already been approved (i.e.



Page 6
land has been purchased by the requesting communities, with GoG financing). All requests are from rural
poor, landless or land poor, organized groups, and more than 90% of applications are from indigenous
communities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Framework: The Land Fund framework is evolving. The Government of Guatemala
created first, by Executive Accord 392-97, the Land Fund as a centralized agency within the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock, and Food (MAGA). Since, and in compliance with the Peace Accord, the GoG and
the indigenous representation in the Joint Commission on Land have prepared a draft law to create the Land
Fund as an autonomous legal entity. This bill of law has been agreed with the Accompanying Commission
of the Peace Accord (with representation from the GoG, URNG, Civil Society and MINUGUA). The bill
of law, if approved, would create the Land Fund for an unlimited period, underscoring GoG commitment to
the objective of providing access to land to poor communities. This bill of law was presented to Congress
on October 15, 1998.
Implementation Arrangements: The Land Fund started operating in December 1997, under MAGA, and
has financed 14 farms to beneficiaries by August of 1998 and approved financing for an additional 16 by
October 1998. The Land Fund sets policies, selects beneficiaries according to eligibility criteria and
mechanisms, and supervises and contracts out services to beneficiary communities through intermediary
agencies (NGOs). The Land Fund has drafted an Operations Manual embodying the program's concepts
and establishing the operational mechanisms. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will
approve an Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
The Government will formally establish a project coordination unit (PCU) within MAGA. Upon enactment
of the draft bill of law to create the Land Fund as an autonomous entity, the staff of the PCU will be
transferred to that entity. To train the Land Fund staff, these staff as well as staff from other GoG agencies
and from selected NGOs have received training supported by the Bank and FAO on preinvestment
evaluation techniques. Three such seminars have been carried out since August 1997. As a condition of
effectiveness, the Government will establish and staff the PCU in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The Land Fund operates through a trust fund (fideicomiso). This mechanism will continue to be used to
streamline disbursements. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will increase the authorized
capital of the trust fund, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Coordination: The Land Fund would coordinate and supervise all project activities.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.). Policy guidance is provided by the Institutional Commission for
the Strengthening and Development of Land Property Rights (PROTIERRA). In April 1997, the GoG
created PROTIERRA, which is coordinated by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Food, include at
its helm the Minister of Finance, the Technical Secretary of Peace, and incorporate as needed all other GoG
institutions, including mainly the National Geographic Institute (IGN), the Presidential Office for Land
Conflict Resolution (CONTIERRA,) the General Property Registry (RGP), and others (the seven main
themes lead by PROTIERRA are listed in B2 Government Strategy). The Viceminister of Agriculture is
the senior official directly in charge of the land Fund program.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: These functions will be performed by a
financial management unit in the Land Fund. A mission by an accredited financial management specialist
was carried out in October 1998. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will establish a fmancial
management system, satisfactory to the Bank.
Program Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The Land Fund would submit semi-annually
monitoring indicators, which would be reviewed with the Bank annually. In addition, there are other
monitoring indicators (financial, procurement and physical) which would be reported quarterly once LACI
procedures are in place. On the bases of the ongoing activities in other countries, some supported by the
World Bank in oPer countries, a manual for monitoring and evaluation has been drafted and adapted



Page 7
for the Guatemalan context. The Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA) will carry out these
activities.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a) Support one of the ongoing land adjudication programs. Evaluation of two Government programs
(FONATIERRA, FORELAP) yielded lessons about unsatisfactory results and much higher costs of direct,
GoG-purchased adjudication programs. Two NGO-run programs involving financing of land purchases
had more positive results: FUNDACEN, financed by USAID, but discontinued in the last decade; this
program lacked the feature of willing-buyer, willing-seller with direct land selection by the purchasing
community but did include an integrated approach including land and productive investments. A fourth
program, by the Agros Foundation and financed by US churches from the Washington State area, is recent
and no repayments have yet to become due. The Land Fund has purchased some of Agros debt, reducing
its funds constraint and allowing it to expand its operations.
b) Individual (rather than group) purchases of land. Although this option has not been ruled out by the
Land Fund, all 287 proposals in hand have been submitted by communities. The underlying reasons are
that, although the program is not ethnically targeted, the income and organizational criteria fit indigenous
communities' characteristics; and that there are economies of scale in transaction costs for group
processing. For instance, in Colombia, where individual transactions are allowed, the subsidy per family is
up to $22,000 (land only). Under the proposed program the subsidy is $4,160 per family, plus about $5,000
in land debt.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing andplanned)]
Sector Issue                           Project                      Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-fnanced projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (JP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Land administration         Land Administration (in Peten)                   Approved
Social Investment Fund II   Support for communities productive investments   Approved
through a demand-driven mechanism
Rural Financial Markets     Access to financial services in rural areas       Proposed
Reconstruction and Local    Support for community development in San Marcos  Approved
Development                 through a demand-driven mechanism
Land Taxes                  Municipal Strengthening for Land Tax Admin.          S               S
(IDF)
Judicial Administration     Judicial Reform Project                          Approved         Proposed
Other development agencies   _                                            _
USAID - Access to land      FUNDACEN - Program completed
FORELAP - Land for          Access to land to refugee groups in FONAPAZ area
Refugees
FONATIERRA - Land for       Access to land for refugee groups outside of
Refugees                    FONAPAZ area
AGROS - Land for poor       Access to land for intemally displaced peopled -            _
communities                 limited fnancing from US churches.  _     _                   __
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The concept of market-assisted land reform underlying the proposed project builds upon extensive lessons
of often unsuccessful land distribution programs in many countries. These lessons include: avoid excessive
subsidies, tax breaks and blanket debt relief for farmers since these are often captured by those who own
most land, subsidizing inefficient farms which should downsize and prevent land use to be rationalized;
they increase the price of land beyond the value of its production and therefore prevents its access by those
without initial capital; and they create an unsustainable fiscal drain. Removal of agricultural subsidies
increases the supply of land in the market. In Guatemala, these distortions are minimal as most have been
removed in the past decade.
Other lessons included in the design of the proposed project are: Avoid expropriation and forced land
acquisition by Governments as they create legal disputes, delays, high administrative costs and drive
conflict. Compared with choices made by beneficiaries themselves, Governments have a poor record of
matching the most suitable land with beneficiaries' needs. Market-assisted land reform is based on a
willing buyer-willing seller principle, avoiding conflict and improving suitability because beneficiaries
choose and negotiate desired land. Complementary investments are essential for success of land
distribution (be it by facilitating purchase) programs.
In terms of the delivery mechanism for the project, the lessons leamed from international and Guatemalan
experience. First, the twenty years of project experience with rural development in several Latin American
countries include, in particular, experience in Northeast Brazil, where the Land Reform Pilot Project is
ongoing, and provide valuable insights: a) decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions
to communities provides clear stakeholders prioritization, but should be accompanied by a clearly defined
and well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the misuse of funds; b) poverty
targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster
transparency and minimize political interference in project resource allocation; and ensure that project
resources do reach the poorest communities; c) participation in the financing of community subprojects
generates a sense of ownership and a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and
maintenance of project investments. Therefore, project investments are more sustainable when the
communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-sharing arrangement and when there is increased
beneficiary participation; d) a widely disseminated and carefully designed publicity campaign is essential to
ensure transparency and proper knowledge of the program's objectives and contents by all potential
beneficiaries; e) technical assistance should be accessible to rural communities to enable them to identify,
prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment
funds; and f) standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the
subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents
overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater participation by poorer
communities and reducing bottlenecks in the subproject cycle. All lessons are being applied in this project,
except for subproject standardization due to the lower volume expected (relative to Brazil's states,
Guatemala is equivalent to the poorest, Piuri).
Second, and in terms of delivery mechanisms in Guatemala, lessons are learned from the two social funds:
Social Investment Fund (FIS) and the National Fund for Peace (FONAPAZ), as well as from land
distribution programs: the Penny Foundation (FUNDACEN), the Fund for Resettled Populations managed
by FONAPAZ (FORELAP) and the Land Fund (FONATIERRA) managed by the National Institute for
Agrarian Transformation (INTA). Both Social Funds are in the process of decentralizing and streamlining
procedures, with Bank support. Of the three land programs, only FUNDACEN, a USAID-fmanced NGO,
met relative success given its integrated approach to farm development including complementary
investments (see D. L.a above). The lessons lead towards increasing decentralization of implementation,
through service contracting to intermediate organizations, and to direct financing to communities for
technical assistance, training, and complementary investments, all of which are reflected in project design.



Page 9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Because land is an important issue and many GoG institutions have different mandates regarding land
policy and management, the GoG has established a high-level commission to make policy and strategic
decisions and coordinate on all activities related to land both within the GoG and with donors and civil
society. In April 1997, the GoG established PROTIERRA (Institutional Commission for the Strengthening
and Development of Land Property Rights), including the Ministry of Finance, the Peace Secretariat
(SEPAZ) and MAGA (coordinator) heads, as well as the Planning Secretariat (SEGEPLAN), the General
Property Registry (RGP), the Military Geographic Institute (IGM) and the Presidential Office for Land
Conflict Resolution (CONTIERRA). PROTIERRA is supported by a technical-juridical unit (UTJ), funded
by a Swedish grant. PROTIERRA coordinates all land-related activities, including donor-supported
projects in land registry and cadastre, land conflict resolution, Land Fund, geographic and statistical
information, land taxes and rural investment.
To underscore the importance of the Land Fund, the GoG has included an initial financing of QI00 million
for initial capitalization, and a yearly appropriation in the draft Land Fund law. Under the current setup
with the Land Fund under MAGA, it has already spent more than Q100 million in 1998 for land purchases
and negotiated a USAID grant of Q 16 million for land purchases and institutional support, to fnance the
land and productive projects selected during its first year of operations.
Also, as discussed above (section C.4), the Government presented a Land Fund bill of law to the
Legislature in October 1998.
5. Value added of Bank support:
The concept of market-assisted land reform underlying the proposed project has been pioneered among
international organizations during the World Bank's policy dialogue with South Africa in the eve of
apartheid's end. South Africa has adopted these concepts, and since both Brazil and Colombia have started
implementing similar projects. The program builds upon the extensive lessons of often negative experience
with land reform in many other countries (see Section 3 above, lessons learned).
A recent World Bank report' concludes the following: a) land redistribution, by itself, is not a solution to
rural poverty. Without complementary services and investments to induce technological change,
production and income levels will remain relatively low; b) a large land distribution scheme may trigger an
increase in land prices; c) Countries should not rely exclusively on land reform as main instrument to
reduce poverty in rural areas. Other non-exclusive options include: promoting land rentals and
sharecropping, titling and registering land, and land taxation.
In line with the above lessons, and since the World Bank cannot finance land purchases, the proposed Land
Fund project finances the technical assistance and complementary investments, is of limited coverage and
does not target any area as this would concentrate demand and raise prices. This project proposal is also
complemented by the proposed Land Administration program and the completed Institutional Development
Grant for Municipal Strengthening for Administration of Land Taxes (TF 28551-GU). These operations
provide avenues to coordinate with the many donors which are supporting the GoG in land administration,
municipal development, natural resource management activities and fiscal initiatives.
E: Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4):
i Rural Poverty in Latin America, Analytic, New Empirical Evidence, and Policy, Report No. 16792-LAC



Page 10
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$11 million; ERR=23%
The benefits to be generated by the Land Fund derive from production improvements and income
distribution. From a production point of view, most land potentially available for the Fund's requesting
groups is under-utilized. Current land productivity is also limited by the availability of capital and
infrastructure. With proper financial and technical support, it is foreseen that the Land Fund would induce a
significant improvement in the use or intensity of use in acquired lands as well as their productivity. From a
distribution point of view, the Land Fund is an essential instrument to comply with the Peace Accords in
regard to a greater access to land by the rural poor. Direct distributional losses would not be generated,
since land transactions will generally take place at market values. Based on case models and their relative
distribution, the average ERR and NPV of the Fund's community subprojects would be around 28% and
US$140,000 respectively. Considering the expected population to benefit in three years and the Fund's
complementary investment and recurrent costs, the overall ERR and NPV would be around 23% and
US$11 million respectively.
2. Financial Assessment(see Annex 4)
a. Financial Analysis: NPV=US$37 million
The Land Fund would provide long-term financing for land purchase2, at positive real interest rates.
Matching grants or non-reimbursable contributions would be provided for: start-up working capital, partial
amortization of loans for land (this would not be financed by Bank proceeds); common infrastructure and
technical assistance. Long-term financing for farm investments other than common infrastructure should be
provided by other development programs or financial intermediaries at market interest rates. Family labor
availability is expected to be sufficient for major on-farm activities and traditional off-farm work. Hired
labor would be marginal during peak seasons. According to case models, the average financial NPV of the
Fund's subprojects would be around US$510,000 and the average incremental family income would be
around US$280. Considering the expected target population and complementary costs, the overall financial
NPV would be around US$37 million.
b. Fiscal Impact: Taxes NPV=US$6 million; Subsidies=US$20 million
Communities supported by the Land Fund will be subject to Value Added Tax on inputs (and eventually
deduction from VAT gains on revenues). Land transactions are subject to a 10% Value Added Tax to be
paid by the purchasing group3, and a 10% Capital Income Tax to be paid by the selling party. Taxes on
annual profits are not expected, since most beneficiaries are indigenous or peasant commnunities interested
in establishing collective agricultural enterprises. In line with the social role of the Fund in terms of
improving access to land by the rural poor, sizeable subsidies are foreseen. The net flows on taxes are only
expected to compensate for 30% of direct subsidies.
3. Technical Assessment:
Technical assistance is required at several institutions. Technical assistance and training are required at the
Land Fund as a new institution to establish its basic technical, socioeconomic and financial units. The
technical unit will receive technical support to set up its preinvestment analysis, market information system
and monitoring and evaluation functions. The socio-economic unit will receive technical support to set up
its social communication and community support functions. The financial unit will receive support to
operate a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank.
The communities will require technical assistance to address legal, organizational support and technology
and marketing assistance to develop and carry out their productive projects.
2and leasing, which was not included in the analysis.
3 They are exempted in the draft Land Fund Law.



Page I 1
4. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies:
Currently, the executing agency is the Land Fund under MAGA (see C4, Institutional Framework).
Upon passage of the Land Fund Law, the Land Fund would become an autonomous legal entity.
Under either legal framework, the Land Fund would work directly with communities and with
established NGOs (for technical assistance and social communications).
b. Project management:
Currently, the Land Fund is managed by the Viceminister of Agriculture for policy decisions and a
Manager for operations. After passage of the bill of law, the Land Fund would be an autonomous
entity managed by a Board and assisted by a General Manager. Board members are representatives
of Government and civil society (including indigenous and peasant organizations). The Board selects
the General Manager of the Land Fund.
5. Legal:
As described in C4, the institutional framework is evolving. The legal framework is also evolving. The
Land Fund bill of law addresses other issues that are important for the Indigenous and Socio-economic
Peace Accords' legislative agenda. The main issues have to do with indigenous juridical personality, and
land registry and cadastre.
The Indigenous Accord (Acuerdo sobre Identidad y Derechos de los Pueblos Indigenas) constitutes an
impressive framework of commitments in policy and specific activities consonant with O.D. 4.20. As
inputs to the Social Assessment, the Bank organized two broad consultations with Mayan Elders in
September and December of 1996, and drafted an Indigenous Peoples Profile. Within this framework,
clear guiding principles to operationalize commitments were discussed with the GoG in March 1997,
including informed participation, concertation and consultation, access to provision or management of
project services, and training of indigenous peoples. The proposed Land Fund project design and
implementation reflects the results of this participatory process.
The Indigenous Accord also mandates the creation of several Joint Commissions (including Land, Sacred
Sites, Reform and Participation, Constitutional Reform), which provide the formal fora for formulating
proposals to comply with specific commitments. These commissions have not finalized their deliberations
nor have they reached consensus on all issues yet. The project design has taken into account the issues
where agreements have been reached and passage of legislation is not required. For those issues which are
still being debated (i.e. the definition of indigenous communities' legal forms of organization), the project,
through its participatory process, offers the full range of existing options for community organization.
This is also contemplated in the Land Fund bill of law, Art. 224. An example of the first case is the
implementation under the project of a culturally-appropriate social communication program, and the
provision of technical services to the communities, in full compliance with the conmitments to eradicate
any form of discrimination and that indigenous communities be informed about official matters relating to
their rights and obligations in their indigenous language. An example of the second case (i.e. those issues
that are being debated) is that of acknowledging the legal personality of indigenous communities. This
arises from the lack of appropriate legislation to implement the Constitutional provision (Art.70). This is
currently on the agenda of the Joint Commission on Land.
On land registry and cadastre, article 40 of the Land Fund bill of law states that land acquired through the
Land Fund will follow the national norms established by the institution responsible for cadastre activities.
4Article 22 of the draft Land Fund Law reads: "Organized Beneficiaries: The Land Fund will facilitate services of
legal assistance to the beneficiaries to obtain constitution and legal personality of their organizations, be them civil
associations, cooperatives, own forms of organizations of indigenous and peasant communities or any other selected by
them. These beneficiary organizations can be dissolved and dispose of their assets in accordance with their by-laws,
provided they are not in arrears with the Fund"



Page 12
6. Social Assessment:
A fill Social Assessment for this project was carried out. Objectives were: (a) to review the existing 287
requests to the Land Fund, to evaluate the structure of the demand; (b) to identify project stakeholders and
conduct a beneficiary assessment to analyze their socio-economic, cultural and linguistic status and
organizational, judicial and productive structures; (c) to identify possible negative impacts of the proposed
Land Fund Project; and (d) to identify the most critical interventions to be undertaken immediately to
address the following issues: eligibility criteria to be included in the Land Fund Operations Manual,
mechanisms for institutional strengthening of the Land Fund, involvement of intermediary organizations
in the different stages of the project cycle, and provide guidance on how to design a social communication
strategy.
The process included an analysis of several specific actions aimed at understanding the project's activities
and their consequences within a social context. The process included the following activities: (a) a
participatory diagnostic of the major stakeholders and beneficiaries in the project area (b) consultation
workshops, focus groups and interviews with the direct beneficiaries conducted by the consulting team; (c)
consultation workshops with the Commission on Land (Comisi6n Paritaria de Tierras); (d) identification
of the conditions, obstacles and opportunities that the indigenous organization, local authorities and
community leaders face for project participation; (e) evaluation of the legal status of legal recognition
(personeriajuridica) and exploring new organizational possibilities for the Land Fund Project purposes (i.e.
for comunidad indigena) The Social Assessment has focused its analysis on the following regions: Alta
Verapaz-including the northern and southern parts of the state; the northwestern highlands, which include
the regions of Huehuetenango; northern Quetzaltenango and San Marcos; as well as the southern coast.
Specific recommendations resulting from the Social Assessment have been incorporated in the Operations
Manual of the Project. They refer to the Land Fund's institutional capacity, eligibility criteria, lack of
capacity of the indigenous communities, communication strategy and the draft Land Fund law. The project
reflects these recommendations, and incorporates actions to address the issues raised (See Annex 11). For
example, the Institutional Strengthening component addresses the Land Fund's institutional weakness by
providing technical assistance and training; the Community Strengthening Component includes legal and
organizational assistance for beneficiary communities to become legally incorporated so that land can be
titled to the legal entity (see footnote 3).
Gender and war affected populations. The Land Law bill of law mandates titling in joint ownership where
there are two heads of household (article 20). It also gives priority for ten years to social groups included
under the Resettlement Peace Accord (Acuerdo para el Reasentamiento de las Poblaciones Desarraigadas
por el Enfrentamiento Armado), with special emphasis on single mothers and widows (article 48).
No investment that may cause involuntary resettlement would be financed by the project.
7. Environmental Assessment:
Environmental Category                                  []A        [x] B     [C
The project would support community investments screened on social, economic/financial and
environmental criteria. The Preinvestment Analysis Training Manual includes a section on environmental
analysis and mitigating measures in accordance with GoG legislation and Bank guidelines. The EA is in
the project files (see annexes). Moreover, the Land Fund fnances technical assistance to provide access to
sustainable technology. The project fnances an environmental specialist to train and help the Land Fund
staff to apply the environmental criteria included in the Operations Manual (TORs in Project Files, Annex
8, Environmental Assessment, December 1997).
The project would explicitly exclude purchase and leasing of land in protected areas (declared or
proposed), areas with primary forest, mangroves or otherwise forbidden under current laws (i.e. Protected
Area and Forestry Laws), land with severe environmental limitations, or with land claims by indigenous



Page 13
communities. No investment that may affect the quality or quantity of international waterways would be
financed by the project.
In contrast to conventional land reform projects, which because of lower land costs are often located at or
near the agricultural frontier, land purchases and leases under the proposed project will likely occur well
within traditional agricultural areas where services are available and markets are near. Therefore, the
project is consistent with an overall approach to reduce the pressure on protected areas and primary forests
by intensifying land use within the agricultural frontier. The Operations Manual would include these
criteria.
8. Participatory Approach:
The Land Fund has also developed a step-wise preinvestment methodology and training mechanisms for
financial and environmental assessment of community proposals5. Such a methodology requires
communities to define subprojects with support of general and specialized technical advice as well as
facilitators for participatory planning. With the support of field analysts (often NGOs), communities
conduct a preliminary financial and environmental assessment. Consequently, infeasible or unsustainable
subprojects can be screened at an early stage by the communities themselves. The preinvestment
methodology encourages communities to identify and present more than one option for land purchase. The
financial analysis under the preinvestment methodology is a valuable instrument for requesting
communities and the Land Fund to determine buy offers. The Land Fund has offered various workshops in
which around 50 field analyst from the Land Fund and collaborating institutions have been trained.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Two elements of sustainability are critical: (a) community knowledge and participation to make their own
investment decisions; and (b) technical assistance and training in institutional organization both for the
Land Fund, and the beneficiary communities themselves, to sustain a partnership aimed at financial and
environmental sustainability of community investment. By focusing on transferring essential resources and
skills to communities, the project would contribute to improving management and profitability of land
investments and human capital.
The community-based subprojects would finance relatively small investments which are easily maintained
by the communities themselves, both technically and financially. Equally important is the fact that client-
driven subprojects, identified and implemented by the communities, have demonstrated a high degree of
ownership by beneficiary groups and their consequent willingness to participate in their maintenance.
Financial analysis confirms the financial sustainability of the farm operations established under the project.
In fact, income increases are sufficient for significant savings and investments that would allow additional
medium- and long-term income increases. Additional factors favoring the sustainability of project benefits
include: a) incentives for self-selection of suitable beneficiaries because of the requirement to repay the
land loan; b) a high degree of community participation in identification, preparation, contracting,
implementing and supervising subprojects; c) counterpart funding by beneficiaries is likely to ensure higher
level of sustainability of subproject benefits.
5 With the support of RUTA and FAO-CP.



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                            Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objectives"
Financial institutions will agree to leverage Land Fund      H          Incentives for private Bank's
proceeds, spreading risk and reducing potential for moral               participation are included in the draft
hazard.                                                                 land law.
Sufficient counterpart funds for land purchases will be     H           Bank assisting government in mobilizing
available                                                               donor support.
Land Fund bill of law is approved                           M           The current legal framework is adequate
for project implementation. On October
15, 1998, the consensus Land Fund bill
of law was presented to Congress; it
requires 2/3 majority for approval.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Political interference would not lead to selecting          M           Transparent procedures for hiring staff.
incompetent staff.
Selected communities are not cohesive.                       L          Selection mechanism to be closely
monitored.
Communities are able to manage resources.                   H           Intense training of communities.
Screening mechanism can identify financial and socially     M           Intensive training process to evaluate
viable community investment.                                           investments.
Land prices do not increase unduly.                         M           Program is small and not regionally
I__________________________________________________ ________________  targeted
Overall project risk ratingM__                                              _____________
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Cost of program per family can be considered high for Guatemalan standards, but this project aims at
reducing the number of poor families, and because it is of limited coverage the fiscal cost is not excessive.
In comparison with other like programs, the cost per family ($4160) plus land debt assumed by
beneficiaries ($5000) proposal here is not high: Brazil ($10,000), Colombia ($22,000), South Africa
($10,000); other administrative land reform programs have had much higher costs: Brazil ($35,000), El
Salvador ($20,000), Chile ($14,000). As a rule of thumb, based on historical data, a cost of less than
$15,000 per family is considered appropriate, with land component 40-50% of total costs. As a matter of
comparison, the cost per job (not per family) created in public works programs in 1995 PPP is $9,700 in
Honduras, and $14,300 in Nicaragua6.
Another possible controversial aspect is why not use one of the current social funds to manage the
community subprojects. Four reasons put forth are: (a) timeliness. Community investments under the
Land Fund program are time-sensitive because they are essential to the financial viability of investments
for which debt payments are due. Therefore timeliness is of the essence and unlikely to be met by the other
social funds with their own priorities; (b) spatial distribution. Because the Land Fund coverage is nation-
wide, it is unlikely that these investments can be "piggy-backed" onto ongoing/planned activities by other
funds; (c) financial availability. Because Land Fund community investments would not come into the
social funds pipeline in a conventional manner, the fund requirements would disrupt availability for other
subprojects and may not be given priority; (d) transparency. Land Fund community investments are
prioritized with different criteria than those of social funds, so their inter-mingling may create friction
among beneficiary groups and a semblance of lack of transparency.
6K. Subbarao, Directions of Development Series, Safety Net Programs and Poverty Reduction.



Page 15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The Operations Manual is satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank (section C.4).
The PCU is established and staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bannk (section C.4).
The authorized capital of the Trust Fund for the Land Fund has been increased in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (section C.4):
A financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank has been established (section CA).
2. Other:
None.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable..
[ ) The procurement documents for the furst year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[ ] The draft Operations Manual has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[x3 The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G)
Operations Manual
Financial management system.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[1 J [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task  ew  Leader/Task M        an         g      :
Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Annex 1A
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Program Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance        Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Indicators           Evaluation
Sector-related CAS
Goal:                 Compliance with       MINUGUA              Peace Accord
The central theme of    corresponding                            commitments are
the Guatemala CAS is  commitments of:                            sustained
to consolidate peace,    - Accord on Identity
supporting programs    -  Rights of
designed to end the   and Rights of
exclusion that has    n
characterized
Guatemala's dualistic   - Accord on Socio-
Guatemala's adueconomy Economic Aspects and
society and economy.   Arra  iuto
Within this broad    Agrarian Situation
theme, the Bank will
work on four fronts,
one of which is to
reduce poverty and
exclusion.
This program will
contribute to poverty
alleviation and
exclusion reduction, by
facilitating access to
rural poor
communities to land
and productive
investments.
Program Development
Goals:
TPhe goals of the     - Number of properties  - Land Fund and Bank  The Government
Program are: (a) to   purchased financed    (supervision missions)  continues to actively
facilitate access to  over a ten-year period                     support the Land Fund
land; (b) support                                                beyond the Peace
communities to access  -Number of beneficiary  - Land Fund and Bank  Accord time frame.
technical assistance and  families         (supervision missions)
technical assistance and                       ~~~~~~~- There is good
productive sub-project      Changein landi 
financing; and (c)    produCtiviy in pars                        tmcoordination in terms of
finncig; nd c)  productivity in parcels  __________timing between the land



Narrative Summary     Key Performance        Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Indicators           Evaluation
improve the legal and   of beneficiaries. This                  purchase financing and
institutional framework  indicator will be                     the complementary
for land markets to  measured using land                        investments
work efficiently.    information household                      components.
surveys with a baseline
recorded at the      - Land Fund and Bank
beginning of the     (supervision missions)
Project.                                  - The mechanisms
established to monitor
land transactions and
land prices are in place.
Outputs:
- The Land Fund      - Average time elapsed  Land Fund and Bank   - trained staff remains
operates efficiently.    for applications to be   (supervision missions)  in Land Fund
processed.                                - There are good
- Average time elapsed                    communication
from acceptance of an                     mechanisms to poor
application to effective                  communities.
disbursement.
- Average time spent
on supervision and
follow-up of
beneficiaries' projects.
- Beneficiary
communities are well   - Evaluation by
organized and have   applicants on the
carried out their    quality of customer
productive projects.    service.
- The market-assisted
land reform model is
tested.              - Average level of
payment arrears.
- Area transferred/
department.
Program Phases
The phases of this
program are
determined on the basis
of institutional
strengthening of the
Land Fund
(a) First phase:     -The Monitoring and    - PROTIERRA UTJ    There is continuous
Establishing the     Evaluation System is in  and the Bank will  government support.
Program              place.                monitor the Land Fund
In this phase the    -The land market      performance.         Other legal reforms



Narrative Summary      Key Performance       Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Indicators           Evaluation
Program will be      information system is                      needed, if identified, are
established with all its  in place.                             adopted.
components. The target - Indigenous and other
will be to benefit   poor communities are   RUTA-UTN            Indigenous communities
approximately 7,500    benefited.                               participate
families in a 3-year
period.
The following
indicators are valid for
all three phases. The
targets will be
different.
- # families
(% indigenous
communities
benefited).
- Financial
management indicators.
- Evaluation by
beneficiaries after a
three-year period,
through surveys and
focus groups.
- Quality of portfolio
(annexes).
(b) Second phase:
Continuing the                                                  - Land Fund Law has
Program's coverage                                              been enacted.
In this phase the
Program will be
continued to cover
7,500 additional
families. This phase
will take four years.
Monitoring of the
beneficiaries of the
previous phase will be
a key to improve
performance in this
second phase. An effort
will be made to ensure
that there is appropriate
geographic coverage.
(c) Third phase:
Extending the cycle
In this phase about                          _



Narrative Summary      Key Performance        Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Indicators           Evaluation
7,500 more families
will be covered and the
accomplishments of
already existing
beneficiaries will be
monitored. This phase
will take four years. At
this stage an in-depth
evaluation will take
place to determine
whether the effort
should be reproduced
at a much larger scale
or decentralized to
departments, depending
on the lessons learned
and the social,
economic and political
conditions of the
moment.



Annex lB
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Adaptable Program Lending
Government Letter of Development Program
(signed by Mr. Pedro Miguel Lamport K., Minister of Public Finance,
on December 1, 1998)
The Government of Guatemala is committed to alleviating poverty and consolidating peace by means of
several reforms, including those pertaining to land policy. One of the instruments of the land policy
reform is the establishment of a National Land Fund Program.
Long term goals of the Program
A fair distribution of land is one of the premises for agricultural development. Guatemala has a history of
land-related conflicts that have resulted in a skewed concentration of this asset. Previous attempts to
address this issue in Guatemala, as well as in other Latin American countries, have failed in the past. A
new approach that is being used in countries with similar problems is the market-assisted land reform.
The Land Fund Program, based on this approach, seeks to facilitate access to land by low-income
communities by providing: loans to buy land and finance grants for productive projects, technical
assistance, complementary infrastructure, while working on improving the efficiency of the land markets.
On the one hand, and given the sensitiveness of this issue, and that the new approach has not started to be
tested yet in Guatemala, the Land Fund Program needs to be implemented gradually.
On the other hand, for the Program to be sustainable it needs a long-term horizon allowing for proper
follow-up of beneficiaries and institutional strengthening. Given these considerations, and the
Government's commitment to the Peace efforts, an adaptable program loan (APL) is requested to finance
the Land Fund Program.
The long-term goals of the Program are:
(i) to facilitate access to land to landless, land poor and poor peasants;
(ii) to support land purchasing communities with technical assistance and sub-project financing;
(iii) to improve the legal and institutional framework to allow land markets to function properly.
The outputs of the Program will be:
(i) A fully operational Land Fund;
(ii) Beneficiary communities with proper legal and functional organizations and on-going productive
projects; and
(iii) The market-assisted land reform model is tested.
The sequencing of the Program
To reach these goals the Program will be implemented over a period of about 10 years. The rationale for
the determination of the phases is institutional development. The Program will consist of three phases.



- Phase 1 (1999-2001), Establishing the Program
In this phase the Land Fund will start its operations. Most of the attention will be devoted to get the
institution set up and the process started. The initial target will be to benefit 7,425 families. The three
aspects to cover in this phase are: Legal and Institutional Framework, Land Fund Institutional
Performance, and Land Fund Services.
- Phase II (2002-2005), Extending the Program 's Coverage
In this phase the coverage will be continued to be 7,425 families. The main focus of attention during this
stage will be improving Land Fund's service provision, i.e., to ensure a strong customer orientation and
follow-up. The Program will more actively seek to attract private sector partners during this phase, based
on the experience of the first phase.
- Phase III (2006-2009), Consolidating the Cycle
In this phase 7,425 more families will benefit from the Program. There will be consolidation of the
efforts in the previous stages. Given the time elapsed, productive community projects can be evaluated
thoroughly.
Policy and institutional achievements, performance indicators and triggers
Phase I
Policy and institutional achievements   Performance Indicators
Legal and Institutional Framework
Required legal reforms                 - Land Fund Law enacted
Appropriate coordination with related
programs, like the Land Administration,
the Social Investment Fund II, and the
Rural Financial Markets
Land Fund Institutional Performance
Established and shared mission and     - Quality of Portfolio
values                                 - Number of staff trained in technical, financial and
Appropriate staffing                   administrative aspects
Procedures and manuals in place        - Financial management indicators
Monitoring and information systems     - Average time elapsed: (i) for applications to be
Land market information system in place  processed, (ii) from acceptance of proposal to
effective disbursement; (iii) for supervision and
follow-up
Land Fund Services
Social promotion to attract appropriate    - Evaluation by beneficiaries of quality of customer
demand                                 service
Appropriate service to process proposals  - 7,425 beneficiary familiesi
Technical assistance for basic productive  - Change in land productivity in parcels of
activities                            beneficiaries during the 3-year period
'There will be special attention to a fair composition of the beneficiary groups in terms of ethnicity and gender.



Supervision of community productive
projects in terms of adequacy with
approved proposals
Supervision of complementary
infrastructure construction
The triggers to move to the second phase are:
In terms of the institutional performance
* Recognition by civil society, NGOs, community organizations
* Indigenous communities are benefited
In terms of the Land Fund internal organization
* Efficient and transparent service
* Operations Manual is well disseminated
In terms of the Land Fund services
* Demand profile is coherent with eligible beneficiaries
* The Land Fund can provide technical assistance, emphasizing technological changes,
commercialization and information
Phase TT
Policy and institutional achievements    Performance Indicators
Legal and Institutional Framework
Legal reforms sustained, regulations in place
Land Fund Institutional Performance
Established and shared mission and values  - Number and quality of staff
Appropriate staffing                     - Number of staff trained in technical, financial
Simple structural organization           and administrative aspects
Procedures and manuals in place          - Administrative indicators
Monitoring and information systems       - Financial management indicators
Land market information system functioning    - Disbursement indicators
Services costing                         - Cost/service
- Staff/output
Land Fund Services
Social promotion to attract appropriate demand  - Evaluation of TAs
Appropriate service to process proposals  - Evaluation by beneficiaries of quality of
Technical assistance for basic productive  customer service
activities                               - Average time elapsed: (i) for applications to
Supervision of community productive projects  be processed, (ii) from acceptance of proposal



Policy and institutional achievements      Performance Indicators
in terms of adequacy with approved proposals  to effective disbursement
Supervision of complementary infrastructure    - 99 properties financed
construction                               - 7,425 beneficiary families (99 productive
projects in groups of 75 families)
- % invested per type of complementary
infrastructure
- Change in land productivity in parcels of
beneficiaries during the 7-year period
- Average time spent on supervision and.
follow-up of beneficiaries' projects
The triggers to move to the third phase are:
In terms of the legal and institutional framework
- Recognition by civil society, NGOs, community organizations
- Private sector interested in co-financing
- Peasant communities are benefited
In terms of the Land Fund institutional performance
- Efficient and transparent service
- Operations Manual is well disseminated
In terms of the Land Fund Services
- Demand becomes more diversified in terms of geography, community organization, and productive
projects
- Demand is coherent with eligible beneficiaries
Phase III
Policy and institutional achievements      Performance Indicators
Legal and Institutional Framework
Legal reforms sustained, regulations in place
Private sector participation in land and   - % private sector participation
productive project financing               - Impact indicators (land distribution, poverty
Impact evaluation of the Land Fund Program    reduction, productivity changes)
Land Fund Institutional Performance
Training                                   - Number and quality of staff
Continued production and cost levels       - Number of staff trained in technical, financial
and administrative aspects
- Administrative indicators
- Financial management indicators
- Disbursement indicators
- Cost/service



Policy and institutional achievements    Performance Indicators
- Staff/output
Land Fund Services
Social promotion to attract appropriate demand  - Evaluation by beneficiaries of quality of
Appropriate service to process proposals  customer service
Technical assistance for basic productive  - Average time elapsed: (i) for applications to
activities                               be processed, (ii) from acceptance of proposal
Supervision of community productive projects  to effective disbursement
in terms of adequacy with approved proposals   - 99 properties financed
Supervision of complementary infrastructure    - 7,425 beneficiary families (99 productive
construction                             projects in groups of 75 families)
- % invested per type of complementary
infrastructure
- Change in land productivity in parcels of
beneficiaries during the 10-year period
- Average time spent on supervision and
follow-up of beneficiaries' projects
Costs and financing
Program Financing    Estimated        GoG      Beneficiaries      IBRD
Data           Cost (US$   Financin   (US$ million)  (US$ million)
APLs            millions)     g (US$
million)
First Phase                77.2        52.5          1.7             23
Second Phase               77.2        52.5          1.7             23
Third Phase                77.2        52.5          1.7             23
Program cost         231.6        157.5          5.1            69
Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
The Bank-supported Regional Unit for Technical Assistance will be in charge of the monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms. As with all land-related projects in Guatemala, MAGA-UTJ will monitor this
project to ensure that there is coordination and complementarity.
The performance indicators mentioned in the tables above will be measured against specific targets to be
set by negotiations. The Bank will play a monitoring role through supervision missions. These indicators
can be divided in 3 groups according to their type and monitoring frequency:
Operational (input/output) indicators/to be measured bi-annually
- Properties financed
-Beneficiary families



- Number of staff and NGOs trained in technical aspects
- Financial management indicators
- Average time elapsed: (i) for applications to be processed, (ii) from acceptance of proposal to effective
disbursement
- Average time spent on supervision and follow-up of beneficiaries' projects
- Cost/farm transferred
These indicators will help in monitoring the internal working of the Land Fund. They will be measured
regularly using the internal information system of the agency.
Impact Indicators to be measured every three years
- Change in land productivity in parcels of beneficiaries during a 3-year period
- % invested per type of complementary infrastructure
- Evaluation by beneficiaries of quality of customer service
Operational indicators will be measured on a semi-annual basis using the Land Fund's records. For each
approved project a file will be opened at the Land Fund that will contain general information on: (i) the
property, i.e., location, soil type, acreage, present yield or productivity, present land use, land valuation,
price at which the property was bought and sold, existing infrastructure; (ii) the families, i.e.,
composition, education levels, present incomes; (iii) the productive project, i.e., product description,
production forecast, equipment needed, inputs, commercialization. These files will be updated regularly
as follow-up visits of the projects take place (templates of these forms are annexed in the Operations
Manual).
External Indicators
- Land Fund Law enacted
- % private sector participation
These indicators are qualitative rather than quantitative. They will be useful to determine how the external
environment is being supportive to the Land Fund Program.



Annex 1C
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
First APL Phase
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance       Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and
Indicators2                                             Risks
CAS Objective             Compliance with             Monitoring by MINUGUA
Sector-related CAS Goal:   corresponding commitments                             PeaceAccord commitments
The central theme of the  of:                         Supervision missions will   are sustained.
Guatemala CAS is to                       .           review indicators of
Gusoiatem palaGAe         - Accord on Identity and   progress to compare number
supporting programs       Rights of Indigenous       of registered properties with
designed to end the       Peoples                     current status.
exclusion that has
characterized Guatemala's   - Accord on Socio-
characterized          Economic Aspects and
dualistic society and
economy. Within this broad
theme, the Bank will work
on four fronts, one of which
is to reduce poverty and
exclusion.
This project will contribute
to poverty alleviation and
exclusion reduction, by
facilitating access from rural
low-income communities to
the most important asset:
2 Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-tem, end of project and full
impact.



land
Project Development         - 100 properties financed    Land Fund and Bank           - The Government continues
Objectives                  over a three-year period     (Supervision missions)       to actively support the Land
The project's specific                                                                Fund, beyond the Peace
objectives are to:          -7,500 beneficiary families3                              Accord timeframe (currently
(a) facilitate access to land                            Land Fund and Bank           ending in 2000).
to beneficiaries;           -  Change in land            (Supervision missions)
(b) support beneficiaries to    productivity in parcels                               - There is good coordination
access technical assistance     of beneficiaries. This                               in terms of timing between
and productive sub-project     indicator will be                                      the land purchase financing
financing;                      measured using land                                   and the complementary
(c) initiate improvements to    information household                                infrastructure (roads,
the efficie'ficy of land markets  surveys with a baseline                             communications, markets)
in Guatemala.                   recorded at the                                       investments components.
beginning of the Project.
- There will be sufficient
supply of land in the market.
- The mechanisms
established to monitor land
transactions and land prices
_________________________   _________________________           are    in  place.
Project Outputs
- The Land Fund operates    -Number of Land Fund staff Land Fund and Bank             - Staff trained remains in
efficiently.                trained in technical,        (supervision missions)       Land Fund, at least for a
financial and administrative                             reasonable period of time.
- Beneficiary communities    aspects.
are well organized and have  - Evaluation by applicants
carried out their productive   on the quality of customer                             - There are good
projects.                   service.                                                  communication mechanisms
- Average time elapsed for                               to reach low-income
- The market-assisted land    applications to be processed.                           communities.
reform model is tested.     - Average time elapsed from
acceptance of an application                             - The Guatemalan banking
to effective disbursement.                               system is responsive and
- Average level of payment                               supportive to the Program.
arrears
- Area transferred/                                      - Land Fund Law is
departnent                                               approved.
- Average time spent on
supervision and follow-up
of beneficiaries' projects.
There will be special attention to a fair composition of the beneficiary groups in terms of ethnicity and gender.



Project Components
(a) Institutional
Strengthening, Project
Coordinating Unit, in the    Input: $2.2 million     Land Fund and Bank        Political interference would
Land Fund to manage the                              (supervision missions)    not lead to selecting
proceeds of the Land Fund    Specific indicators:                               incompetent staff.
Trust Fund (TF- or        -The Monitoring and
fideicomiso); train the PCU   Evaluation System is in
staff to: manage contracts    place
with intermediary agencies;
improve land markets      -The market information
information for financing    system is in place
and facilitation; and carry
out the administrative    - Number of Land Fund
aspects of project        staff trained in technical,
management, including     financial and administrative
administration of project    aspects.
funds, management,
supervision, monitoring and  - Financial management
evaluation, and financial    indicators.
management system and
project audits and reviews.   - Disbursement indicators.
Project Components        Input
(b) Community             $13.3 million
Strengthening                                                                  -Selected communities are
involving pre- and post-  Specific indicators        Land Fund and Bank         cohesive.
land purchase services. The  - Number of communities    (supervision missions)
component would support   with legal entity status.
communities and provide
grants for them to: establish  - Number of communities
their legal entity status (so    with formulated projects.
that they can own or lease
land and register their   - Number of projects with
ownership or lease),      environmental mitigation.
organize themselves
according to their uses and   - Number of staff members
practices; research the legal  contracted for
status of prospective lands   environmental technical
to be purchased or leased;    assistance.
prepare pre-investment
proposals; contract technical
and financial advice for
investment planning and
implementation, and follow-
up on community
subprojects.



Project Components       Input
(c) Community investments  $9.7 million
to grant-finance community
subprojects in social (e.g.    Specific indicators  Land Fund and Bank        - Communities are able to
small water systems) and  -% invested in road       (supervision missions)    manage resources.
productive (e.g. access  infrastructure
roads) complementary      -% invested in irrigation                           - Screening mechanism can
infrastructure investments.   systems                                         identify financial and
To provide maximum        -% invested in market                               socially viable community
opportunities for income  construction and/or                                 investments
diversification, there will be  improvement
a negative list of
investments which cannot
be financed by the Project.
There would be cost-sharing
with the beneficiary
communities.
Project Components       Input
(d) Land Purchases and    $52.1 million
Leases. This sub-component
is not financed by the Bank.  Specific indicators   Land Fund and Bank        -Land price increases.
- Volume of land purchase   (supervision missions)  -Sufficient counterpart
per time period.                                    funds for land purchases
- Average land price.                               will be available.
-To complement GoG
financing, financial
intermediaries have
incentives to participate,
spreading risk and reducing
potential for moral hazard,
and do so.



Annex 2
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$2.2 million (total cost of component)
Institutional Strengthening, including project management unit for the Land Fund. This would
include vehicles, office and field equipment and technical assistance and training, and recurrent
costs to carry project related activities, including: carry out culturally sensitive social
communication program on the Land Fund activities; train LF staff to manage contracts with
agencies; set up a land market information system; carry out legal research on land tenure and
local land prices; carry out environmental evaluations of subprojects; carry out the administrative
aspects of project management, including funds administration (of the TF), management,
supervision; carry out monitoring and evaluation of the Land Fund activities, and financial
management system and project audits; and reviews.
Project Component 2 - US$13.3 million (total cost of component)
Community Strengthening involving pre- and post- land purchase services. The component
would support communities by providing: legal assistance for, inter alia, establishing their legal
entity status, so registering ownership on land, organizing themselves according to their uses and
practices, to conduct research of legal status of prospective lands to be purchased; to prepare
investment proposals, access rural financial markets, contract technical advice for investment
planning and implementation once land loans have been approved, and follow up on the
productive projects. The post-land purchase technical assistance grants would run for three years
and would cover 100% on the first year, 65% on the second year, 30% on the third year. This
component would also provide for communities access to exchanges with other entities, and
scholarships for their members to gain technical expertise. Finally, this component finances the
initial grant component that is not used for paying for the land purchase, which Bank proceeds
cannot finance (see component 4).
Project Component 3 - US$9.7 million (total cost of component)
Community Subprojects to grant-finance social (e.g. small water systems) and productive (e.g.
access roads, community mills, storage and marketing facilities) complementary infrastructure
investments related to land purchased under the program. To provide maximum opportunities
for income diversification, there will be a negative list of investments which cannot be financed
by the project. Productive investments can be on-farm (intra-prediales) or off-farm (extra-
prediales). There would be cost-sharing with the beneficiary communities of a minimum of 9%.
Project Component 4- US$52.1 million (total cost of component)
Land Purchases and Leases supported by the Land Fund would be part of the counterpart funds,
not financed by the loan proceeds. These land purchases and leases could be financed by the Land
Fund.



Annex 3
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                       Local         Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million-----------
Institutional Strengthening                  1.4          0.3          1.7
Community Strengthening                     12.4          0.7         13.1
Community Subprojects                        9.7          0.0          9.7
Land Purchases                              50.6          0.0         50.6
Front-end Fee                                0.0          0.2          0.2
(i)    Total Baseline         74.1           1.2         75.3
Cost
Physical Contingencies                    0.2           0.0          0.2
Price Contingencies                        1.6          0.1          1.7
Total Project Cost                          75.9          1.3         77.2



Annex 4
,Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows                  Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis    Financial Analysis  Taxes         Subsidies
NPV             US$11 million        US$37 million      US$6 million   US$20 million
IRR             23%
The benefits to be generated by the Land Fund derive from production improvements and income
distribution. From a production point of view, it is generally accepted that the land potentially available
for the Fund's requesting groups is under-utilized. Land productivity is also limited by the availability of
capital and infrastructure. With proper financial and technical support, it is foreseen that the Land Fund
would induce a significant improvement in the use (quality and intensity) of acquired lands as well as
their productivity.
From a distributional point of view, the Land Fund is an essential instrument to comply with the
Peace Accords in regard to a greater access to land by the rural poor. As reflected in the Fund's selection
criteria, participants must be: from rural areas, with scarce resources, adults, and capable of working in
groups. Thus, the Land Fund is an instrument for the transfer of assets to the rural poor. With regard to
landowners who sell their land, the Fund will support land transactions at market values under a willing-
buyer willing-seller principle. Therefore direct distributional losses would not be generated.
Potential Beneficiaries
According to existing records in the Land Fund', by mid-1998 around 240 groups have requested
assistance for the purchase of land. These groups represent a population of approximately 24,000
families: eight communities comprising 8,200 families, and around 230 groups comprising 15,800
families. The requesting communities have very specific requirements (and purchase options), which are
quite different from those of other groups. In line with the selection criteria of the Fund, the requesting
groups are composed of peasant families or rural inhabitants with scarce resources, generally dependent
on agriculture, and workers or small producers who complement their income with off-farm remunerated
work. In general terms, their annual income is barely sufficient to cover expenses at subsistence level.
Based on the groups' current residence and the location of the farms which they would like to buy: 7
percent of cases registered are in coastal and transitional zones (piedmont and valleys) in the southern
part of the country; 11 percent are in highlands of the Pacific Basin; 5 percent in transitional zones of
the central part of the country; 45 percent in highlands of the central part of the country; and 32
percent in lowlands of the northern part of the country.
Approach, Assumptions and Parameters
4Forthcoming. Guatemala: Mercado de Tierras - un analisis preliminar. FAO's Cooperative Programme and Rural
Development Divisions (with the support of RUTA).



The financial and economic evaluation, conducted by the Food and Agriculture Organization's
Cooperative Programme with the World Bank (FAO-CP)5, is based on real cases where specific groups
were interested in buying land. The evaluation was undertaken jointly with interested groups, and when
available administrators and owners.
The financial and economic analysis was undertaken at 1997 constant pricesd. General economic
parameters were: estimated average domestic inflation rate of 8 percent annually; exchange rate of 6
Quetzales to one US Dollar; evaluation period of 20 years; discount rate of 12 percent; and no major
differences between economic and financial prices. Basic fiscal parameters were: Value Added Tax
(VAT) of 10 percent of price on products and inputs; zero tax on annual profits8; land transactions also
subject to 10 percent VAT on land price? payable by requesting groups and 10 percent Capital Income
Tax on land price payable by the selling party. Parameters related to beneficiaries were: family income
level around US$500 per year; family labor availability estimated at around 200 person-days annually;
and basic subsistence expenses covered by off-farm remunerated work.
In regard to specific operations of the Land Fund and collaborating institutions, specific parameters
were: long-term financing of land purchase at a nominal interest rate of 12 percent per year (4 percent of
real interest rate); grants for common infrastructure; long-term financing for other farm investments1o at a
nominal interest rate of 14 percent per year (6 percent of real interest rate); grants for initial working
capital and partial amortization of loans for land; and in-kind non-reimbursable contributions for training
and technical assistance. The expected coverage of the Fund is around 3000 families per year. Recurrent
and investment costs related to institutional and community strengthening"1 represent around US$770,000
annually, and the initial implementation period is three years.
Case Models
The cases herewith analyzed are similar in one way or another similar to many cases under
evaluation in the Land Fund. However, no judgement can be made on their overall representativeness of
the universe of cases involved in rural land transactions. Farm models were developed based on the total
area of the farms to be purchased, on the assumption that they would be managed collectively by the
requesting groups as single agricultural enterprises12. Model 1 is similar to various cases where land for
purchase is located in the coastal and transitional zones in the southern part of the country. Farm area is
around 200 ha and potential beneficiaries, around 130 families. Crops considered are: coffee, rubber and
maize. Model 2 is similar to numerous cases where land under consideration is located in the highlands of
the Pacific Basin. Farm area is around 160 ha and potential beneficiaries, around 80 families. Coffee is
the main crop considered. Model 3 is similar in one way or another to other cases under consideration,
where land is located in the transitional zones of the central part of the country. Farm area is around 750
ha and potential beneficiaries, 150 families. Productive activities considered are: pastures and dairy cattle,
coffee, sugar cane and maize. Model 4 is similar to other cases where land under consideration is located
in the highlands of the central part of the country. Farm area is around 80 ha and potential beneficiaries,
around 70 families. Coffee is also the main crop considered. Model 5 is similar to numerous cases where
S The FAO-CP Study is available in Project Files. The study dates from April 1998.
6December 1997.
7 Since no major trade restrictions or market restrictions were identified.
8 Since most requesting groups are low-income indigenous communities or peasant groups, which would form collective
agricultural enterprises.
9 The draft Land Fund Law waives this tax, but since the draft Law has not yet been approved, this was considered in the
analysis.
 Such as equipment, vehicles and livestock.
1 l Other than technical assistance.
12 Requesting groups have expressed preference on this management modality.



land for purchase is located in the lowlands of the northern part of the country. Farm area is around 1000
ha and potential beneficiaries, around 140 families. Productive activities considered are: pastures and
cattle fattening, maize and beans in rotation. The existing tropical forest will not be affected.
Financial and Economic Assessment
Information initially gathered in flipcharts and boards with interested groups was revised and
refined in Spreadsheet models designed by FAO-CP and RUTA for the Land Fund. Farm gate prices,
yields and inputs were double-checked with producers' associations, experienced local agronomists and
commercial input suppliers. For appraisal purposes, a Farmod model was developed (as a further effort
of simplification and standarization)13. Table I contains a summary of financial requirements in the five
case models. Table 2 presents major indicators of fiscal impact and financial and economic feasibility of
the various models. Weighted averages in both Tables are calculated based on the distribution of cases
registered in the Land Fund (see potential beneficiaries).
Table 1.    Financial requirements of Case Models (Thousand US Dollars).
Case Models                                 Credit                     Non-Reimbursable Funds
Land         Non-  Working         Capital Infrastruct  Technica
infrastructu   Capital'4    Grants'5        ure
re                                      Assistan
Investment                                              ce
s
Model 1: Southernarea            820            80         100         180         120          10
Model 2: Pacific Basin           640            60          50         110           70         10
Model 3: Central area           1280            90         90         210            70         10
Model 4: Central area            370            50          50         100          160         10
Model 5: Northern area           730           100          80        200            20         10
Weighted Average ()590                          70          70         140          100         10
IJn line with the distribution of cases registered, weights considered are: 7% for Model 1, 11% for Model 2, 5% for Model 3,45% for Model
4, and 32% for Model 5.
13 Model available in Project Files.
4 Greatest amount required in the first five years of the project.
15 Taking into account a maximum of US$ 1,400 per family: 50 percent for start-up working capital and 50 percent for capital
amortization of loan for land purchase.



Table 2.    Fiscal, Economic and Financial of Case Models.
Case Models             Famnilies    Taxes    Economic Feasibility   Financial Feasibility
NPV       NPV       ERR        NPV       Incremental
(000 US$)  (000 US$)   (%)     (000 US$)     Family
Income'6
(US$)
Model 1: Southern area       130        130      (60)       5.7         730          280
Model 2: Pacific Basin        80        70        250      26.9         600          370
Model 3: Central area        150        130       190      21.0         560          1810
Model 4: Central area         70        70         40      14.9         480          350
Model 5: Norhern area        140        70        290      60.2        470           170
Weighted Average (a)         100        80        140      28.3         510          280
"' Idem.
Taking into account environmental limitations, land transactions in the lowlands of the northern
part of the country seem to be highly convenient on economic grounds. This reflects to a large extent the
fact that farms in these areas have been basically used for wood extraction, and at present they are
marginally used for cattle grazing 7. Efforts to develop an environmentally sustainable agriculture have
been minimal. On the other hand, farm purchases in the southern part seem to yield low economic returns
since their current use is generally intense, and only marginal improvements could be obtained by peasant
communities. Land transactions in highlands of the Pacific Basin and the Central part of the country
seem to be reasonably convenient on the same economic grounds, since farms are generally associated
with coffee production of good quality. Taking into account the distribution of cases referred above: the
Average Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of productive investments supported by the Land Fund would
be 28 percent; the Average Economic Net Present Value (NPV) of such investments would be US$
140,000; and the Average Financial Net Present Value (i.e. the incremental net income received by the
beneficiaries in present value) would be US$ 510,000. At a Household level, the average incremental net
income per year'8 ranges from US$ 170 to US$ 370 -increments from 30 to 70 percent above an average
annual income level of beneficiary families without the project. It is finally worth noting that Model 5 is
the most feasible in terms of ERR, while it is the least in terms of average incremental family income.
Similarly, Model I is the least feasible in terms of ERR while it is one of the most convenient in terms of
average incremental family income.
Considering the expected population to benefit in three years, about 10,000 families, and the
Fund's complementary investment and recurrent costs, the overall ERR and NPV would be around 23
percent and US$11 million respectively, while the overall Financial NPV would be around US$37
million. In regard to fiscal impact, the net flow of Value Added Taxes and Capital Income Tax on land
transactions can only compensate for 30 percent of direct subsidies (capital grants, infrastructure and
technical assistance). This reflects the social role of the Fund in terms of improving access to land by the
rural poor.
16 (Financial Net Present Value / number of families) / 20 years
17 Mainly due to financial limitations for working capital.
18 At present value.



Risks
Based on a sensitivity analysis of critical factors, the price of coffee was found to be a critical
factor both in terms of Economic and Financial Feasibility. A decrease of 20 percent in the price brings
about in Models I and 4 an ERR lower than 12 percent (negative in Case Model I), and liquidity
problems in Models 2 and 3: the resulting Average ERR is 25 percent; the Average Economic NPV is
around US$ 90,000 (60 percent decrease); and the Average Financial NPV, around US$ 450,000 (12
percent decrease). The price of land is also a critical factor in financial terms. A 20 percent increase in the
price of land results in an Average NPV of US$ 460,000 (11 percent decrease). Liquidity problems arise
in Models 3 and 5 (where core productive activities are cattle and grains). Finally the interest rate is also
critical in terms of financial feasibility. A two-percent increase on real interest rates brings about an
Average Financial NPV of US$ 460,000 (10 percent decrease). Liquidity problems arise in Models 1, 3
and 5, due to relatively larger financial requirements both in terms of investment and working capital.
However, the initial experience of the Land Fund suggest that the most critical factor for the
viability of the productive activities of groups supported is the availability and opportunity of financial
support (reimbursable or non-reimbursable) to allow for on-farm investments and sufficient working
capital on a timely basis.



Annex 5
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Financial Management
The financial management assessment has been carried out as per the following time-bound
Action Plan:
October 1998: A Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist (FMS) performed an initial financial
management (FM) assessment for the Land Fund, during which an Action Plan was agreed to with the
Borrower. This Action Plan includes agreed terms of reference and the hiring of a local firm (or
individual consultants). The goal will be to install and implement an appropriate system under LACI,
which serves the entity's accounting, financial reporting, and project monitoring needs both in the short
and long term (the long term being when the entity in question becomes legally autonomous, and thus
differs in structure from a traditional government entity).
Since, two full-time consultants have been hired to follow-up this activity (follow up and information
technology), and all terms of reference have been drawn and agreed with the Bank (see project files).
December 1998 - February 1999 (approximately):
B. Action Plan implemented, with Bank supervision (reviewing charts of accounts, accounting manuals,
terms of reference, etc.).
B. System implementation begins.
March 1999 - June 1999 (approximately):
B. FMS performs follow-up mission.
B. First drafts of Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) are created, and reviewed by Bank FMS.
B. Follow-up mission performed by consultant and/or Bank FMS to ensure that a viable FM system is in
place prior to effectiveness.
For more details, see Project Files.



Annex 6
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
There is no up-to-date Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Guatemala
and no comprehensive review of local regulatory and institutional framework for procurement
was conducted.
The Land Fund would have the overall responsibility for project coordination and
procurement.
This will be the first World Bank project for the Land Fund. Until now, they have been
operating through a Trust Fund Agreement established in BANRURAL, where procurement is
being handled directly by the communities. Under the proposed project, the Land Fund will carry
out procurement for the institutional strengthening and community strengthening components,
which consist mainly of hiring of consultants. And, for community subprojects and the post-land
purchase technical assistance, the procurement responsibility would be transferred to the
communities under agreements acceptable to the Bank between the Land Fund and the
communities, unless such communities request the Land Fund to carry out the procurement.
Details on these agreements are included in the Operations Manual.
The organizational structure of the Land Fund is also described in detail in the Operations
Manual. It has a Technical Committee and a Coordination Unit (PCU). Currently, there are
approximately 20 people in charge of the administration of the Fund. The Land Fund is in the
process of becoming a new autonomous legal entity; when the Land Fund bill of law is approved
by Congress, similar functions would be maintained. The legal establishment and staffing of the
Project Coordination Unit is a condition of effectiveness.
Under the project, the Land Fund's administrative staff will be trained on Bank's basic
procurement procedures and financial management. A time-bound action plan has been
developed as a result of the Financial Management assessment (see Annex 5).
Procurement arrangements (Table A). All procurement will be done in accordance with
guidelines on procurement of goods, works, and using standard contract documents acceptable to
the Bank (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised
January/lugust 1996 and September 1997; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997).
Procurement for community investments (US$18 million) would generally be carried out
by the beneficiaries. The Operational Manual describes the criteria for eligible communities,
investments, subprojects, and contract forms. A community investment proposal could consist of
subprojects for goods, works or services, or a combination of the three. The average subproject
amounts to US$20,000. Therefore, procurement for goods and works costing the equivalent of
less than US$25,000 and US$150,000 per contract will be done through national shopping



procedures and lump-sum fixed-price contracts, respectively, requesting quotations from a least
three different bidders. In those cases where the communities cannot carry out procurement -for
lack of capacity or when supply is not available at the local level - the PCU would carry out this
procuremeni only at the request of the community. Where contracts for goods exceed US$25,000
and for works US$150,000, NCB procedures would be followed using standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the bank. Direct contracting may be allowed for communities in
remote rural areas and where competitive proposals can not be obtained. The Operations Manual
describes the criteria for approving direct contracting. It is expected that communities will
contribute to subprojects with their labor, cash, local materials, and physical supervision.
Goods (US$265,000) consist of vehicles and computers for the PCU. These purchases
would be done by the PCU using NCB procedures for packages costing US$25,000 or more per
contract. For goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract, national shopping
procedures will be used, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000.
Consultant services under the project (US$1.9 m.) would be selected following QCBS
procedures. These services consist mainly of technical assistance to be contracted by the PCU to
provide legal advice to communities in the process of obtaining their legal entity status,
registering ownership, organizing themselves, preparing investments proposals, and technical
advice for management (Technical Assistance Grants). Under the institutional strengthening
component, consultants will be required by the PCU to carry out the promotion campaign,
administrative aspects of project management, administration of funds, supervision, monitorinig
and evaluation activities, financial management system and project audits and reviews.
Individual consultants under the different components will be hired up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000 (see Table A. 1).
Purchase or lease of land will not be financed by the Bank.
Monitoring of procurement practices would be carried out to ensure consistency with
Bank guidelines, the operational manual and the procurement plan. During Bank supervision,
random reviews of procurement documents and community subprojects would be conducted.
Technical audits would be conducted separately and would check whether subproject activities
were completed in accordance with the agreed methodology and work plan and whether resources
were used appropriately and efficiently.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). The Bank would conduct a prior review of (a) the
first NCB contract for goods; (b) the first NCB contract for goods under community subprojects;
(b) th~e first NCB contract for works under community subprojects; (c) the first two contracts for
goods under national shopping; (d) all consultant contracts with firms above US$100,000; and (e)
all consultant contracts with individuals above US$30,000.
Disbursement
AUlocation of loan proceeds. Disbursements would be made against the categories of
expenditures indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be
disbursed over a period of three years. The project closing date is expected to be December 3 ]1,
2002.
SpecialAccount and Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). A Special
Account (SA) in US dollars will be established in the Central Bank with a maximum authorized
.0



allocation of US$ 2.2 million, sufficient for financing four months of eligible expenditures. After
LACI procedures are approved, the maximum authorized allocation would be US$3 million.
Flow of Funds. The Trust Fund would channel loan funds. The Trust Fund under the
Land Fund would be used to administer and disburse loan proceeds as well as counterpart funds
for the project. The PCU would withdraw funds from the Special Account to pay for: (a) goods
and consultant services procured by the PCU; and (b) community subprojects. The PCU will
transfer funds to the communities directly in all cases where the community itself is responsible
for procurement. As explained under procurement arrangements above, goods, works and
services for the Community Investments component would be procured either directly by the
community or by the PCU. When communities carry out procurement procedures directly, the
funds will be deposited in the community bank account, which will be opened when the
community receives legal personality. The Land Fund and the community would enter into
contracts (generally including all activities proposed in the original productive project which was
approved by the Land Fund. Each transfer would be capped at $10,000, subsequent fund
transfers would be scheduled depending on the nature of the contract. The Land Fund would be
responsible for carrying out supervision site visits, as required. The community would be
accountable for fund utilization. The supervision and auditing process at the community level
would be based on outputs rather that inputs, as compared with the terms of the agreed contract.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs) and LA CI. Disbursements would be made on
the basis of full documentation for all expenditures-made under contracts requiring prior review
by the Bank, and contracts whose value would be raised above the prior review limits as result of
amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements would be made on SOEs: (a) contracts
for goods , (b) contracts for community subprojects, (c) contracts for consulting firms costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent, (d) contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$30,000
equivalent, (e) training; and (f) operating costs and salaries, When the Land Fund's financial
management system is approved to use LACI procedures, the use of SOEs will be replaced by
Project Management Reports.
Audit
The Land Fund would have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year,
including the Special Account, audited by independent and qualified external auditors, in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures, and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank. Certified copies of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 of
each year.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive Financing of up to US$2.0 million is recommended for expenditures incurred
after August 3, 1998.



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Methods                Total Cost
(including
contingenci
es)
NCB          Other       N.B.F.
1. Goods                                   0.2           0.1           -              0.3
(0.1)         (0.1)          -             (0.2)
2. Consultant Services 1/                   -            1.9           -              1.9
(1.8)          -             (1.8)
3. Training 2/                             -             0.1           -              0.1
(0.1)          -             (0.1)
4. Community Subprojects 3/                 -           18.0           -             18.0
(17.1)          -            (17.1)
5. Technical Assistance Grants             -             3.6           -              3.6
(2.7)          -             (2.7)
6. Land 4/                                 -             -            51.0           51.0
7. Front-end fee                           -             0.2           -              0.2
(0.2)          -             (0.2)
8. Incremental Recurrent costs 5/          -             1.0           1.2            2.2
(0.9)          -             (0.9)
Total                                   0.2         24.9          52.1            77.2
(0.1)       (22.9)                       (23.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
1/ Consultant services with firms would be selected following QCBS procedures. See table A. 1.
2/ Training related expenses different from consultant services.
3/ Community subprojects include goods, works and services. National shopping or NCB procedures will be
followed, and direct contracting in some cases.
4/ Land purchases or leases will not be financed by the Bank.
5/ Include operating costs of the Land Fund for operation and maintenance of equipment and salaries.



Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                          Total
Consultant Services                                                                   .       Cost
QCBS  QBS  SFB  LCS  CQ  Other N.B.F.
A. Firms
a) Promotion campaign                  x                                                               0.2
b) Auditing                            x                                                               0.1
c) Monitoring and Evaluation            x                                                              0.1
d) Feasibility Studies                                                                                 0.2
e) Legal assistance to                                                           x                     3.6
communities for legal entity
status (technical assistance
grants)                                                                   _
B. Individuals
a) Legal and organization                                                        x                     0.4
assistance (technical assistance
grants)
b) PCU Short-term  Consultants                                                   x                     0.1
Total    4.7
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices,
etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                             US $ millions
1. Goods                  > 25,000                NCB            First (US$ 0.2)
< 25,000         National Shopping    First two (US$0.01)
2. Consultant Services
With finns           >100,000               QCBS               All (US$2.0)
<100,000               QCBS              Only TORs
With Individuals      >30,000                CQ                All (US$0.2)
<30,000                CQ               Only TORs
3. Community         Goods > 25,000                NCB          First one (US$0.025)
Subprojects                >25,000        National shopping             None
Direct Contracting           None
Works >150,000
<150,000                NCB          First one (US$0.150)
National shopping            None
Direct Contracting           1 one
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:           2.51



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
(millions)            (%)
1. Goods                                          0.2                 90%
2. Community subprojects Grants                  17.1                100%
3. Technical Assistance grants                    2.7                100%
4. Consultant Services                             1.6               100%
5. Training 1/                                    0.1                100%
6. Operating Costs and Salaries 2/                0.9              70% until
withdrawals under
this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount of $800,000;
and 30% thereafter
7. Fee 3/                                         0.2              Amouint Due
8. Unallocated                                    0.2
Total        23.0
1/ Training related expenses different from consultants.
2/ Operating costs and salaries include operation and maintenance of equipment and
incremental salaries of Land Fund's staff.
3/ The front end fee is $226,000.



Annex 7
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
21.3
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16 months            14 months
First Bank mission (identification)            06/01/1997            06/01/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     10/13/1998           08/03/1998
Negotiations                                    10/29/1998           11/30/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/30/1999            06/30/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food (MAGA)
Preparation assistance: PHRD $400,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Cora Shaw                                 Economist
Maurizio Guadagni                            Agronomist
Patricia Cleves                           Social Scientist
Juan Martinez                      Indigenous Peoples Specialist
Fernando de Mergelina                      Financial Economist
Susana Sanchez                          Financial Economist
Aidan Gulliver                             Agronomist
Dino Francescutti                         Project Economist
Adriana Herrera                           Land Specialist
Tulio Barbosa                           Operations Officer
Joao Barbosa de Lucerna                      Operations Officer
Teresa Roncal                          Procurement Analyst



Annex 8
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Operations Manual and Law (in Spanish)
Land Fund           Operations Manual (10/98)
Land Fund           Bill of Law (10/98)
B. Bank Staff/ Consultant Reports
COSTAB tables (11/98)
Financial Management Assessment Mission (10-98), including Time-Bound Action Plan
Draft Manual for Monitoring and Evaluation of Market-Assisted Land Reform Programs (?/98)
C. Other
FAO/CP:      Preinvestment Analysis Manual (6/98)
Land Markets Study (6/98), including
3 working papers:
* Estudio de mercado de tierras;
*  Acercamiento al analisis del mercado y arrendamiento de tierras en tres
zonas seleccionadas, en los Departamentos de Quiche, Quetzaltenango y Alta
Verapaz;
* Analisis del regimen legal de inmuebles y posibilidad juridica de
participaci6n en tal mercado)
Economic and Financial Analysis of Land Fund (4/98)
Environmental Assessment (12/97), including TORs for Environmental
Specialist
Acci6n Ciudadana    Draft Social Assessment (9/98)
Humana XXI          Focus Groups report (7/98)
MAGA                Analisis Comparativo de los Programas de Compra y Venta de Tierra en
Guatemala (1996)
Janssen, William    Lecciones Aprendidas del Proyecto de Compra-Venta de Tierra II con
relaci6n a la Estrategia de la Misi6n para Iniciativas Posteriores a la
firma de la Paz (8/94)
Acuerdos de Paz Firme y Duradera (12/96)
Indigenous Peoples Studies    Marcela Tovar
Memorias de Consultas con Ancianos Maya (9/96 and 11/96)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 20
Active Projects
GT-PE-7205       1989   REP. OF GUATEMALA (MIN. 0         SCNDRY&REG RD RHB           31.50        0.00             5.92           8.11    14.01         5.01       S             S
GT-PE-7199       1989      GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA        BASIC ED                    30.00        0.00            11.21            .99    12.19          .98       S             S
GT-PE-7213       1995   REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA             INTEG FINAN MGT              9.40        0.00             0.00            .75    -1.95         0.00       S             S
GT-PE-48756      1997   REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA            PRIV PRTCPTN INFR           13.00        0.00             0.00          13.00      4.77        0.00       S             S
TA
GT-PE-7223       1997   REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA             BASIC ED. REFORM            33.00        0.00             0.00          31.67      2.67        0.00       S             S
GT-PE-48657      1998   GOVERNMENT                        INTEG FIN MGMT II           15.70        0.00             0.00          15.70    15.70         0.00       S             S
GT-PE-35737      1998   REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA             RURAL & MAIN ROADS          66.70        0.00             0.00          66.70      0.00        0.00       S             S
GT-PE-48654      1998                                     TAX ADMIN. TAL              28.20        0.00             0.00          28.20    28.20         0.00       S             S
GT-PE-49386      1999   GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA           RECONSTR & LOCAL            30.00        0.00             0.00          30.00      0.00        0.00
DEV
Total                                                                                257.50        0.00            17.13         195.12    75.59         5.99
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   45.24              527.02               572.26
of which has been repaid:                    3.91              364.64              368.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  236.46              163.67               400.13
Amount sold                                        0.00                 5.76                5.76
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                5.76                5.76
Total Undisbursed                                195.12                 1.29              196.41
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U -
unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23,
1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 10
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Country at a Glance                                            9129/98
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Guatemala   & Carib.  income      Development dlamond
1997
Popuiabon, mid-year (millions)                      11.2       494     2,285                Life expectancy
GNPpercapita(Atlasmethod US$)                      1,500     3,880     1,230
GNP (Atas methot US biions)                          18.8     1,917    2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       2.8        1.7      1.2     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                      3.4       2.3       1.3     per                           primary
Most recent estdmate (latest year avaiable, 1991-97)                             capita              /       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty Ine)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                40        74        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     s8         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1000 live births)               39        32        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            33        ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                60        73        84
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   44        13        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  84       111       111              Guatemala
Male                                                90                 116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              78        ..       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratioe
GDP (US$ billions)                           4.4     7.2       15.8     17.8
Gross domestic investmentVGDP              21.4    10.3        13.3     14.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          21.6    16.1        17.7     17.9
Gross domestic savings1GDP                  15.4    11.8       8.6       9.1                      T
Gross national savingslGDP                  18.9     9.5       10.5     11.2                       I
Current account balance/GDP                 -1.8    -0.6       -2.8     -3.6     DomesInetm
Interest payments/GDP                       0.3      2.2       0.7       0.7     Savings                     Investment
Total debWGDP                                8.8    38.7       24.0     22.0
Total debt service/exports                   4.3    31.2       11.0     10.3
Present value of debtVGDP                     ..      ..      21.0
Present value of debVexports                 ..       ..    103.4
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.0      4.0     3.0        4.3      5.3               Guatemala
GNP per capita                    -2.0       0.9     5.0        1.7      2.9              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      -3.6     6.9      7.6       14.1     12.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (Y,)
(%/ of GDP)                                                                      4
Agriculture                                 27.3    25.6       24.1     23.8
Industry                                   20.1    20.1        19.7     20.0    20
Manufacturing                             15.6    15.9       14.0      13.8
Services                                   52.6    54.3       56.3      56.4     rl
Private consumption                        77.8    81.1       86.3      85.7    -20
General govemment consumption                6.8     7.1        5.2      5.1                    GDI       e  GOP
Imports of goods and services              27.6    14.6       22.4      23.6
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.6     3.0        2.5      2.5    40
Industry                                    0.5      3.8       3.1       5.8    30
Manufacturing                              0.9      2.7       1.9       2.7    20
Services                                     1.4     4.5       3.1       4.5
Private consumption                          1.4     4.0       2.8       2.7     1                             
General govemment consumption               3.7      3.6       0.0       3.6            92   93   94   ss   w       97
Gross domestic investment                   -6.5     4.9     -13.4      21.7
Imports of goods and services               -8.5     8.3       -6.8     20.3                 pExporns          rs
Gross national product                      0.8      3.8       8.0       4.4
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997     Infaton (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  ;
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumerprices                                 ..     37.0      11.0       9.2    3:
Implicit GDP deflator                        11.5    41.5        9.1       8.4    20
Government finance                                                                10                                     )
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                ..       ..      13.0      13.0            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..       ..       4.2       4.7                   GDP deflator  - o  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       .        1.1       0.3
TRADE
(US$ millions,i                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  1,044     2,232    2,598     5,000
Coffee                                       ..    502         473       616
Sugar                                         ..      52       220       258     4,000
Manufactures                                 ..       ..       231       276     3,000
Total imports (cif)                            ..    959       3,274    3,979     2,000                  *
Food                       e            r   123  235 299   '" ii
Fuel and energy                               ..      94       458       396     1.000.
Capital goods                                ..    213         691      931        o.
91  92  93  94  95  95  97
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      75         89       90
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      71        101       99                 U Exports     eimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    105          88       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986        1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                969    1,167      2,792    3,187       0
Imports of goods and services               1,201    1,046     3,540    4,193          _
Resource balance                            -232      121       -748    -1,007     -2
Net income                                   -44     -214       -230     -232      -4
Net current transfers                        198   51   528  607                          " " 'E                     l
Current account balance                      -79      -42       -450      -632     4 
Financing items (net)                        298      151        626      935        l
Changes in net reserves                      -220    -109       -176      -303    a10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    566         825     1,125
Conversion rate (DEC, Iocal/US$)              1.0      2.2       6.0       6.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         382    2,802      3,786     3,914
IBRD                                        42      277        200      188                         A: 1a8
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Total debt service                            44      383        354      379           G: 1.051
IBRD                                         4       39         27       26                                    D78
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             31       48         59       85
Official creditors                          24      106         36       -25
Private creditors                           21      -64        -72       23
Foreign direct investment                   13       69         77       85            F:742                E 1148
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        0 
World Bank program
Commitments                                 41        0          9       33     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                4       17         69       16   |B - IDA      - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         1       18         13       12    BC-IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                    3       -1         56        4   1                                         _
Interest payments                            3       22         14       14
Net transfers                                0      -22        42       -10
Development Economics                                                                                               9/29198



Annex 11
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Social Assessment Summary
OBJECTIVES
1.    A Social Assessment was carried out as part of the project preparation, with the
following objectives: (a) to review the existing 287 requests to the Land Fund, to evaluate the
structure of the demand; (b) to identify project stakeholders and conduct a beneficiary
assessment to analyze their socio-economic, cultural and linguistic status and organizational,
judicial and productive structures; (c) to identify possible negative impacts of the proposed Land
Fund Project; and (d) to identify the most critical interventions to be undertaken immediately to
address the following issues: eligibility criteria to be included in the Land Fund Operations
Manual, mechanisms for institutional strengthening of the Land Fund, involvement of
intermediary organizations in the different stages of the project cycle, and provide guidance on
how to design a social communication strategy.
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
2.    To achieve its objectives, the Social Assessment process included an analysis of several
specific actions aimed at understanding the project's activities and their consequences within a
social context. The process included the following activities: (a) a participatory diagnostic of the
major stakeholders and beneficiaries in the project area (b) consultation workshops, focus groups
and interviews with the direct beneficiaries conducted by the consulting team; (c) consultation
workshops with the Joint Commission on Land (Comisi6n Paritaria de Tierras); (d)
identification of the conditions, obstacles and opportunities that the indigenous organization, local
authorities and community leaders face for project participation; (e) evaluation of the legal status
of legal recognition (personeria juridica) and exploring new organizational possibilities for the
Land Fund Project purposes (i.e. for comunidad indigena) The Social Assessment has focused its
analysis on the following regions: Alta Verapaz-including the northern and southern parts of
the state; the northwestern highlands, which include the regions of Huehuetenango; northern
Quetzaltenango and San Marcos; as well as the southern coast. Specific recommendations
resulting from the Social Assessment have been incorporated in the Operational Manual of the
project.
BENEFICIARY PROFILE
Indigenous Groups
3.    The Guatemalan Indigenous groups belong to three distinct ethnic groups, with Asiatic
roots in the case of the Mayas and Xincas, and Afro-Asiatic ones in the case of the Garifunas.
The Mayas share a common cultural heritage and have integrated themselves into 30 different
linguistic communities, they currently reside in Guatemala, Mexico, Belize and Honduras. The
main indigenous groups in Guatemala are:
(a) The Maya-speaking communities, which from now on will be referred to as the Maya
groups originated from a single migration and a common language--the protomaya--from which
they began to separate approximately 4,000 years ago. Today, these communities are
geographically located in accessible territories, and in most cases, they make up the greater
majority when compared to the mestizo population residing within the same area.



(b) The Xinca Peoples are part of an indigenous community as of yet unknown origin.
Though their language and historical heritage have not been systematically studied, there are,
however, three hypothesis on their ancestral past: (i) migration from Peru; (ii) migration from
Canada; or (iii) descendant of a group of Toltec origin, which survived to this Maya area.
(c) The Garignagu Peoples, best known as Garifuna, came from the Caribbean region and
settled in Guatemala less than 200 years ago. Their roots have been traced to the Caribbean
Africans and Arawacs. During the govermnent of Mariano Galvez, it was solicited that the
territory, which is currently occupied by them--Izabal, be legally entitled as their own. Their
language, cultural traditions and identity are shared by the Garifuna of the Caribbean basin, a
group they had strongly identified with, prior to the signing of the Indigenous Accord (Acuerdo
sobre Identidad y Derechos de los Pueblos Indigenas).
4.    These three different ethnic groups share the Guatemalan territory along with the mestizo
population, which for the most part has Spanish and indigenous roots, even though successive
migrations have produced a cultural mosaic with mestizos intermarried to Chinese, German, and
Middle Eastern people. The multi-ethnic, multicultural and multilingual Guatemalan character
identifies itself with four main ethnic groups: Mayas, Garifunas, Xincas and mestizos or Ladinos,
whose cultural roots are western. In Guatemala there are 24 languages spoken, yet until today
only Spanish is recognized as the official one.
Income Distribution
5.    In Guatemala, the income distribution is highly unequal and rural areas have the highest
level of poverty. Poverty afflicts over 75% of the population, 86% of the rural population and
93% of the indigenous population. The Land Fund is targeted toward the very poor living in rural.
The Social Assessment has identified that the main beneficiaries of the Land Fund are indigenous
groups. In the project area (the project is nationwide), 91% of the consulted persons identify
themselves as indigenous. The six indigenous groups of the northwestern highlands and the four
of the Alta Verapaz region belong to the Maya ethno-linguistic peoples. The analysis has shown a
very high demand of indigenous communities to access the resources of the Land Fund to
purchase lands. In its first year of existence the Land Fund has received a majority of the
submitted proposal from Alta Verapaz ( 32% of the proposals) and the Peten region (11% of the
proposals). The first of these regions is the main areas of land conflict and claims, while at the
same time representing the areas with the highest percentage of indigenous peoples and lowest
human development indices.
The Socio-Economic Situation of Indigenous Groups
6.    The socio-economic situation of indigenous peoples in Guatemala is significantly worse
than the one of the non-indigenous population. Indigenous peoples have the lowest education
levels-their average schooling is 1.3 years and 60 percent indicate that they are illiterate-and
the least access to basic services including health, potable water and adequate sanitation. Most
indigenous peoples rely on subsistence agriculture, yet their access to land is often limited -this is
reflected in the high concentration of land. In addition, property rights are unclear for most
subsistence farmers: it is estimated that 95% of the rural parcels are not registered (this does not
mean they are all in conflict). The vast majority of indigenous peoples do not own land, so they
rent it from landowners. Indigenous peoples lag far behind non-indigenous peoples in all of the
socio-economic indicators. For example, 39 percent of the indigenous population is in the lowest
income quintile; 93 percent of all indigenous households live below the poverty line.



Social Organization
7.    A very important aspect of Maya culture in regards to land is their strong belief in
collective ownership. Central to the work of many community organizations is their struggle to
obtain legal land entitlements; these efforts are not only based on economic reasoning, it is central
to their worldview and cultural beliefs. The Social Assessment indicates that the majority of
indigenous peoples-72% of those interviewed-consider land to be the basis for their livelihood
and a basic right. A large number of indigenous communities, however have not yet gained the
official recognition of their customary land and territorial rights.
Indigenous Views of Land and the Environment
8.    Indigenous peoples have a close attachment to the lands and environment which is based
on cultural and social aspects, rather than on economic considerations. Indigenous peoples view
land - in contrast to mainstream western thinking-not solely as an economic "commodity"
which can be bought and sold in markets. To the contrary, the indigenous view is that land is a
subsistence resource endowed with sacred meanings, embedded in social relations and
fundamental to the definition of a people's existence and identity. Indigenous leaders pointed out
in the consultation workshops, that indigenous peoples consider land as a "guarantee for the
dignity, liberty, security and justice of their communities".
MAJOR ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.    The Social Assessment has identified a number of issues which have been addressed in
project design and will be incorporated in the Operations Manual; this contains the procedures
for community participation during project implementation. Issues and recommendations are
described below:
Lack of Capacity of the Land Fund Agency: A major challenge represents the low capacity of
the Land Fund (LF) to carry out the administrative aspects of project management, including
promotional activities, processing of land fund requests as well as monitoring and evaluating the
project. The Social Assessment has shown that during the first year of its existence the LF has
only processed 14 out of 287 proposals (4,5%). This number shows the current inefficiency of the
unit and highlights the prevalent need for strengthening the capacity of LFA to manage the Land
Fund to ensure the success of the project.
Recommended Action: The project has fully acknowledged the lacking capacity of the
LF. Addressing the relatively low capacity of the LPU, a major component of the project will be
to build institutional capacity by providing technical assistance, training and equipment to the LF.
Eligibility Criteria to the Land Fund: Key to the success of the project will be to define clearly
the eligibility criteria of the fund. The selection process should be based not only on the financial
and economic viability of a proposal, but also socio-cultural and environmental selection criteria
should be taken into full consideration to ensure the sustainability of the funded activities.
Recommended Action: Based on the finding of the Social Assessment that the main
project beneficiaries are indigenous groups. Since the Land Fund is targeted to poor rural
dwellers living in communities, most beneficiaries have and are expected to be indigenous
communities. To ensure that the LF will have the capacity to operationalize the screening of
proposal and participating of its socially sustainability and cultural appropriateness of its planned
interventions, Land Fund staff would include social scientists, with indigenous language
capabilities. RUTA would hire appropriate social staff to carry out this monitoring and
evaluation.



Lack of Capacity of Indigenous Communities: Another major challenge of the project is the
limited capacity of indigenous communities to prepare technical proposals. The Social
Assessment has shown that there is a very high demand among indigenous groups for community
investments under the Land Fund. As pointed out above, this is particularly the case for Alta
Verapaz and the Peten departments. Currently there exists an important mismatch between the
very high demand of the indigenous communities for the Land Fund and the limited capacity of
the LF to offer such funding.
Recommended Action: The project will address the issue of limited technical capacity of
indigenous communities by integrating a program of capacity building and institutional
strengthening into the project. The project is fully taking into account the importance of
community knowledge and participation to make their own investment decisions to ensure the
sustainability of the project. The focus will be by transferring resources and skills directly to the
indigenous organizations and their communities to strengthen their capacity to prepare technical
proposal for the participation in the Land Fund. Moreover, processing of the project as the first
tranche of an APL would address the demand issue.
Social Communication Strategy: The Social Assessment has identified the need to develop a
social communication strategy specifically in the areas where demand for the Land Fund is
highest (Alta Verapaz, El Peten, etc.). Since a major factor for the Guatemala conflict was land
tenure, the communication strategy could prevent a negative impact with high political
dimensions. There are in the rural areas great expectations from the indigenous organizations and
communities that the Land Fund will provide Land to all applicants, therefore many "new"
organizations are being created with out any technical capabilities and are being presenting
requests to the Land Fund, without fulfilling the minimum requirements to initiate the selection
process.
Recommended Action: The project will address this issue by implementing a culturally
appropriate communication Strategy in rural areas for indigenous and peasant communities and
organizations. The main objective of the communication strategy will be to clarify the
procedures on how to present proposals and to inform on eligibility criteria; these actions would
minimize expectations and temper demand. Indigenous NGOs with high credibility could
contribute to the implementation of this strategy. Also, NGOs could develop a network to
facilitate intermediation between the Land Fund and beneficiary groups. The communication
strategy will also be presented in indigenous languages.
Land Fund Law: The Join Commission for Land has presented a proposal to the Government to
be presented to the Legislature for the creation of a Land Fun; this law proposes the creation of an
autonomous institution, decentralized and with own assets, with juridical recognition and an
initial life of ten years. The Social Assessment has identified the law to be very important for
project implementation and sustainability. The draft land Fund law includes seven representatives
in its Board of Directors, the Minister of Agriculture, a representative from Ministry of Finance,
one from CONADEA, one from Camara del Agro, two indigenous representatives designated by
COPMAGUA and one peasant representative designated by CNOC.
Recommended Action: Present and approve draft law to the Legislature.



Annex 12
Guatemala
Land Fund Project
Operations Manual
The Land Fund Operations Manual will lay out the objectives of the Land Fund, criteria for
eligibility for beneficiaries and properties to be financed, as well as establish the procedures for
the selection and support for communities. The Manual operationalizes the provisions of the
draft Land Fund Law (see Annex 8, Project Files) which was presented to the Legislature on
October 15, 1998. Prior to presentation, this draft Law was first agreed within the Joint
Commission on Land'9 and later with the Accompanying Committee 20 and therefore enshrines a
working consensus between all parties represented.
The draft Manual (October 1998, see Annex 8, Project Files) includes eligibility criteria, current
(pre-law) institutional organization, operational arrangements. It also includes a negative list with
environmental restrictions on types of lands to be supported for acquisition for agricultural use
(environmentally fragile or protected), and forrnats for requests and transactions. The Manual,
once finalized, will be translated into the major indigenous languages. The Manual also includes
environmental screening guidelines. A satisfactory Operations Manual is a condition of
effectiveness.
The purpose of the Manual is to provide clear and uniform procedures to inform potential
beneficiaries, agencies and intermediaries, Land Fund staff and the public in general on the
operations of the Land Fund.
The Operations Manual contains two parts: the first is short and is written in clear language for
dissemination purposes. The second part consists of technical annexes which provide formats for
processing steps.
19 This commission (Paritaria) includes equal number of Government and Indigenous representatives and it is a result
of commitments under the Indigenous Accord (Acuerdo sobre Identidad y Derechos de los Pueblos Indigenas).
20 This committee monitors compliance with the Peace Accord and includes representatives from Government, URNG,
Civil Society and MINUGUA.



I



IBRD 29282
BA\                                             900                                                                      880
Gulf of
Mexico
Caribbeon                                  2_-,
MEXICO .] 1lE                Sea                            0          25    5       7 Kiloth          
UAT_.iA ,                                                              I             I             I_
*       HONDUJRALA                                 0            25             50            75 M.l.
ELSALY          NICABAG               18                                                                     _*                                                  18
PACIFIC                I CA
OCEAN
920                                  !j 
Thisp.pocdby                   . -   _ - - --   -|     - -
nMop  .sipn Und of h.         _Iz                                                                                 
color,dnon,inatansand                *                                                                          I            BEL17E
oi A.r ,ornnnatioy ohan                                                          L Petfn Itz6                               BELIZE
dw.par oaT  Wa8nk                      I;ww,                                                         
sGja dgnsntanith. s,.
IGop enyaof my A sbil-r                                                        Floz * 
or any *narnns.ent or                                t-
rJc*ptane *  o f such                                  *
_'.                                                ,                           ,
M               E X I C O                                      .J                                                                     Gulf of
I .  !        V: ;a 0  : ;n ;;       .~Honduras
_  ,0   _  .  _1*6_  .   _   *   _0- _ ,   _   *   _   @   L                     :        S             /   t4 2 > U 2 5\\2 } X 2 o   E6
-1^          ~/                           .J~n /      't--4-,-...'                                        _         ,        S0\;,- - -
.          ,HP  .'b A  ..0
/                                      f                     *\        , d- OCobon~ -d -                                         0  
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
1-1 -                                 =iA
/    '<       HueliuS nonono     -.
, AN:                                                                                          /      
}-  <5  si   fl-5\vl ^.th3   u        50bmo-  z  ......          ; aC/-"a
(~~~~~                    *~~~0Santa Cruz          Slto            L
t Marcos                      f   nP z/I--v   j                                           Zcp
* :       TgWonicapan d.-O 1!h.                             '.oco
.   Querltenango   ,t           (            .  3o                                                                                               _
*  Ouez~.Itenongo    Solola@                                                          * Chquimulo\
GUATEMALA 0                                                          HONDURAS
<1 ^ U kr  zatena%ta                6A; .Antig .oa CJTY       -
*  "Rsiklk!uO   l                                Gutemla
000>~~~~~~~~~~~;~,  i     'C;l  uibpo  >  l: .p  3
/0\t000 0; \>i             Escuindo C1p                                                                    *                                  140
10
EL SALVADOR
*  NTIONAL%APIYAL~~~~EA 
92t;t 9; $0 68< 0 ESt .1S14 A . / ' ' t S-J 1
w  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL  1998]



