Page  1
June
2,
1998
Lic. Jos
é
Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona
1
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of a Guatemalan Land Fund
Project
-
Grant No
.
TF
025371
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred four thousand Dollars ($404,000) (the Grant) to 
Republic of Guatemala
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/S/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By
/S/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
 Authorized Representative
Page  2
Date
June
2
,
1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a proposed Guatemala 
Land Fund Project (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Design of an integrated strategy to improve, inter alia, the legal and institutional framework 
for rural land. 
(b)
Design of the institutional building component of the proposed Project.
(c)
Complete the social assessment for the proposed Project that is currently being 
carried out in Guatemala.
(d)
Carrying out of a campaign to disseminate the contents of the proposed Project 
activities among stakeholders.
(e)
Design of: (i) land price information systems; (ii) an institutional development plan to 
make the operation of the Land Fund (
Fondo de Tierras
)
sustainable;
(iii) a 
nationwide information system concerning the operations of the Land Fund; and (iv) 
a monitoring and evaluation system.
(f)
Improvement of the legal framework governing the operation of the Land Fund.
(g)
Carrying out of seminars and workshops to disseminate the contents of the proposed 
Project for the benefit of civil service personnel of the Recipient and non-government 
organizations, including the design and distribution of information materials.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants
’
services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct 
of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1999. After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility of the Bank and shall be done according to the 
Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of 
the Recipient, on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
Page  3
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
