Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4432-GU
Loan Agreement
(Land Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 27, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4432-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated December 1, 
1998, which letter describes the Borrower’s  program to facilitate access to land 
consistent with the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous People Accord (Acuerdo Sobre 
Identidad y Derechos de los Pueblos Indigenas) of March 31, 1995 and the Socioeconomic 
Aspects and the Agrarian Situation Accord (Acuerdo Sobre Aspectos Socioeconómicos y 
Situación Agraria) of May 6, 1996  (the Program); 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), and which 
forms part of the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Banco de Guatemala” means the Borrower’s Central Bank; 
(b)
“Beneficiary” means an individual or an organized group of individuals 
which meets the criteria set forth in the Operations Manual to obtain financing to 
lease or acquire land through the Land Fund (as hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“Community Subproject” means any of the activities referred to in Part C 
of the Project;  
(d)
“Community Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Executive Accord No. 392-97” means the Borrower’s Acuerdo Gubernativo 
No. 392-97 of May 14, 1997;
(h)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of financing a Community 
Subproject; 
(i)
“Land Fund” means the Borrower’s Fondo de Tierras established pursuant to 
Executive Accord No. 392-97; 
(j)
“Land Fund Entity” means the entity referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement; 
(k)
“MAGA” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food (Ministerio 
de Agricultura, Ganadería y Alimentación) of the Borrower; 
(l)
“Operations Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(m)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(n)
“Potential Beneficiary” means an individual or an organized group of 
individuals which meets the criteria set forth in the Operations Manual to benefit 
from the assistance to be provided under Part B.1 of the Project; 
(o)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
“Regulations” means the regulations to administer the Trust Fund (as 
Page  3
hereinafter defined) approved by Board Resolution No. JD-076-97 of August 11, 1997 of 
the Trustee, as such regulations may be amended or superseded by subsequent 
regulations; 
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(r)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.08 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(s)
“Technical Assistance Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement; 
(t)
“Technical Assistance Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
the Borrower to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part B.2 of the 
Project; 
(u)
“Trustee” means BANRURAL (Banco de Desarrollo Rural) or any other private 
banking institution selected by the Borrower to act as trustee for the Trust Fund; 
(v)
“Trust Fund” means the bank account opened by the Borrower pursuant to 
the terms of the Trust Fund Agreement; and 
(w)
“Trust Fund Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and the Trustee dated July 8, 1997 for the purpose of administering the funds 
of the Land Fund, as amended pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, or any 
other agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower and 
the Trustee for the same purpose in the event that the Land Fund Entity is created.
1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Land Fund Entity. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-three million Dollars ($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts paid 
(or if the Bank shall so agree to be paid) by the Borrower under: (i) a Grant to meet 
the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for the carrying out of a 
Community Subproject; and (ii) a Technical Assistance Grant to meet the reasonable 
cost of services under Part B.2 of the Project; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Parts A and B.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.  In no event shall any amount of the Loan be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account for the financing, in whole or in part, of  any leasing or acquisition of 
land. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Land Fund with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, 
financial, environmental and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operations manual satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) 
Page  5
the criteria and procedures for approving Community Subprojects; (ii) the guidelines 
and procedures to be followed by the Borrower in carrying out the environmental 
evaluation of Community Subprojects; (iii) the criteria for providing Technical 
Assistance Grants; and (iv) the type of investments not financed with Loan proceeds. 
(b)
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operations Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and for the purpose of financing Community Subprojects, the Borrower shall, upon 
approval of a Community Subproject, enter into an agreement (the Community Subproject 
Agreement) with the corresponding Beneficiary, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and for the purpose of providing Technical Assistance Grants, the Borrower shall, upon 
approval of a Technical Assistance Grant, enter into an agreement (the Technical 
Assistance Agreement) with the corresponding Beneficiary, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in Section II of  Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall perform all its obligations under the Community 
Subproject Agreements and Technical Assistance Agreements and shall exercise its 
rights thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall operate and maintain during the implementation 
of the Project the Trust Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Agreement and the Regulations for purposes of administering and disbursing the 
counterpart funds for Part D of the Project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall establish within MAGA, and thereafter 
operate and maintain during the implementation of the Project a Project coordination 
unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter 
alia, the responsibility to coordinate, monitor and supervise the implementation of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and evaluation indicators, 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than forty-five days after the conclusion of each calendar 
semester of  Project implementation, starting in the second semester of 2000, a 
semi-annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
Page  6
date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than March 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in the year 2001, the corresponding report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
Section 3.08. In the event that during Project implementation the legal status 
of the Land Fund is altered so as to bestow it with separate legal personality, the 
Borrower shall:  
(a)
not later than sixty days after the occurrence of such event transfer, on 
a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and remaining in the Land Fund to such entity pursuant to an agreement (the 
Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and such new entity 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
pertinent obligations set forth in this Agreement;  
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
assign, suspend, terminate, waive, abrogate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof; and 
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Land 
Fund Entity to carry out the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by the 
Land Fund Entity.
Section 3.09. In the event that the environmental evaluation of a particular 
Community Subproject recommends actions to be taken by the Borrower or the Beneficiary 
to address any negative environmental impact, the Borrower shall take, or cause the 
Beneficiary to take, all such actions as required by the Operations Manual. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations,  
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  7
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Land Fund Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Land Fund Entity will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
Page  8
(c)
prior to the adoption of a new legal framework for the establishment and 
operation of the Land Fund Entity, the Executive Accord No. 392-97 or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project;
(d)
any legal framework for the establishment and operation of the Land Fund 
Entity satisfactory to the Bank or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Land 
Fund Entity to carry out the Project;
(e)
the Regulations or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the 
Borrower to carry out Part D of the Project; and
(f)
that the Trustee shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the Trust Fund Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Operations Manual is satisfactory in form and substance to the Bank;  
(b)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
established by the Borrower as provided in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;  
(c)
the authorized capital of the Trust Fund has been increased, under terms 
acceptable to the Bank, in an amount equal to the amount of the counterpart funds 
required to carry out Part D of the Project; and 
(d)
the PCU has been established and staffed as provided in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The date July 26, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  9
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIP
9207 MINFIP GU
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Guatemala city, Guatemala as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Manuel Maza Castellanos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under Parts A and
    200,000
90%
B.1 of the Project
(2)
Grants
 17,100,000
100% of the amount 
disbursed as referred 
to in paragraph 1 (a) 
Page  10
of Section I of 
Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement
(3)
Technical Assistance  
  2,700,000
100% of the amount
Grants
disbursed as referred 
to in paragraph 1 (a) 
of Section II of 
Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement
(4)
Consultants’ services         1,600,000
100%
       under Parts A and B.1 of
the Project
(5)
Training under Parts A and      100,000
100%
B.1 of the Project
(6)
Operating Costs and        
     900,000
70% until withdrawals 
Salaries
under this Category 
have reached an 
aggregate amount of 
$800,000; and 30% 
thereafter
(7)
Fee
     226,000
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
     174,000
TOTAL
  23,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for Consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the training 
activities under the Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainers 
and trainees, rental of facilities and training materials; and 
(b)
the term “Operating Costs and Salaries” means expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower for recurrent costs associated with the implementation of Parts A and B.1 
of the Project, including: (i) the incremental cost of the operation and maintenance 
of vehicles (which includes fuel, repairs and spare parts); and (ii) the incremental 
cost of salaries of the personnel of the PCU. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount equal to $2,000,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 1, 2000. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods (other 
than those contracts for goods to be procured under Community Subprojects as mentioned 
in subparagraph (b) herein) with the exception of: (i) the first contract for goods to 
be procured under Part B.1 (b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
the first two contracts for goods to be procured under Part B.2 of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for goods to be procured under Community 
Subprojects with the exception of the first contract for goods to be procured under 
Community Subprojects in accordance with the procedures set forth in Part B.1 (a) of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for works to be procured 
under Community Subprojects with the exception of the first contract for works to be 
procured under Community Subprojects in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Part B.1 (c) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (d) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (e) 
Page  11
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $30,000 
equivalent each; and (f) Training and Operating Costs and Salaries set forth in 
Categories (5) and (6) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account in Banco de Guatemala, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Page  12
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $800,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed an amount equal to $3,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit  into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
Page  13
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed an amount equal to $3,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to facilitate access to land to 
Beneficiaries; (b) to provide support to Potential Beneficiaries and Beneficiaries in 
the preparation and implementation of Community Subprojects; and (c) to initiate 
improvements to the efficiency of the land markets in Guatemala. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon, from time to time, to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening  
1.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Land Fund to carry out and 
supervise Project activities (including the carrying out of environmental evaluations 
of Community Subprojects and lands to be leased or acquired under Part D of the 
Project), through the provision of technical assistance and training and the 
acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor. 
2.
Carrying out of a social communications program in Guatemala to inform the 
population with respect to the Project activities. 
3.
Provision of training to those entities selected by the Borrower for purposes of 
providing the assistance referred to in Part B.2 of the Project. 
4.
Carrying out of analyses of land tenure and local land prices for purposes of 
providing land financing to Beneficiaries.  
5.
Establishment of a land market information system.
Part B:
Community Strengthening 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to Potential Beneficiaries with 
respect to, inter alia: (a) adoption of an appropriate legal status; (b) design of 
Community Subprojects; (c) identification of land to be leased or acquired under Part 
D of the Project; and (d) carrying out of studies related to land investments for 
productive purposes. 2.
Provision of technical assistance to Beneficiaries, financed 
by Technical Assistance Grants, to assist them in the management of Community 
Subprojects.
Part C:
Community Subprojects 
Financing of demand-driven Community Subprojects (through the provision of 
Grants) in the areas of: (a) social or economic infrastructure; and (b) any other 
investments for productive purposes, all of which meet the criteria set forth in the 
Page  14
Operations Manual.
Part D:
Access to Land   
Provision of loans to Beneficiaries for purposes of leasing or acquiring land. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2004
  490,000
October 15, 2004
  500,000
April 15, 2005
  515,000
October 15, 2005
  530,000
April 15, 2006
  550,000
October 15, 2006
  565,000
April 15, 2007
  580,000
October 15, 2007
  600,000
April 15, 2008
  615,000
October 15, 2008
  635,000
April 15, 2009
  650,000
October 15, 2009
  670,000
April 15, 2010
  690,000
October 15, 2010
  710,000
April 15, 2011
  730,000
October 15, 2011
  755,000
April 15, 2012
  775,000
October 15, 2012
  800,000
April 15, 2013
  820,000
October 15, 2013
  845,000
April 15, 2014
  870,000
October 15, 2014
  895,000
April 15, 2015
  925,000
October 15, 2015
  950,000
April 15, 2016
  980,000
October 15, 2016
1,010,000
April 15, 2017
1,035,000
October 15, 2017
1,070,000
April 15, 2018
1,100,000
October 15, 2018
1,140,000
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  15
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods to be procured under Community Subprojects estimated to cost 
$25,000 equivalent or more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods (other than goods to be procured under Community Subprojects) 
estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more per contract, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
Works under Community Subprojects estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent 
or more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. (d)
Procurement of goods and 
works under this Part shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable 
to the Bank. 
2.
Shopping  
Goods (other than goods to be procured under Community Subprojects) estimated to 
cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Except as provided in subparagraph (c) below: 
(a) 
goods to be procured  under Community Subprojects estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines;  
(b)
works to be procured under Community Subprojects estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully; and
(c)
goods and works under Community Subprojects located in remote rural areas 
in which the procurement procedures described in subparagraphs (a) and (b) above are 
not practicable as set out in the Operations Manual, may be procured through direct 
contracting available in the area.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for Part A of  the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods and works to be 
procured under Community Subprojects in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
Part B.1 (a) and (c) above; and (ii) the first contract for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 (b) above, the procedures set 
Page  16
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.2 above, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for Parts A, B and C of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part A of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  17
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference for the 
particular assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(e)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000, the terms of 
reference for the particular assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
SCHEDULE 5 
Section I
Each Community Subproject Agreement shall contain terms and conditions whereby:
1.
The Borrower agrees:
(a)
to finance up to 91% of the cost of each Community Subproject;
(b)
to inspect, by itself or through the Land Fund or jointly with 
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods and works 
included in the respective Community Subproject, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(c)
to take or cause to be taken all actions as provided in Section 3.09 of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
to procure, on behalf of the Beneficiary, the works, goods or services to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant as provided in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement upon request of the Beneficiary; and 
(e)
to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to benefit from the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Community Subproject Agreement.
2.
The Beneficiary agrees:
(a)
(i) to carry out and operate the respective Community Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, technical, 
engineering, financial and environmental standards and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operations Manual; and (ii) to provide the necessary information to 
the Land Fund to enable the Borrower to comply with its obligation as provided in 
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
(i) to procure the works, goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant as provided in Section 3.02 of this Agreement in cases other 
than that referred to in paragraph 1 (d) above; and (ii) to use exclusively the works 
and goods in the carrying out of the respective Community Subproject;
(c)
to finance at least 9% of the total cost of the corresponding Community 
Subproject, such financing to be made either: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii) through 
the provision of labor; or (iv) by means of any combination thereof;
Page  18
(d)
to take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when 
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying 
out the Community Subproject and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon its request, 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are 
available for purposes related to the Community Subproject;
(e)
to obtain when needed, prior to the carrying out of the corresponding 
Community Subproject, all permits, licenses and or rights (other than those referred 
to in paragraph (d) above) necessary to carry out, operate and maintain the Community 
Subproject; 
(f)
to take all actions on its part required to address any potential 
negative environmental impact identified in the environmental evaluation for the 
corresponding Community Subproject, or cause the contractors carrying out the works 
(through inclusion of appropriate mandatory provisions, acceptable to the Bank, in the 
bidding documents for such works) to take all necessary actions to address such 
impact, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(g)
not to: (i) assign or transfer, in whole or in part, any of its 
obligations under the Community Subproject Agreement; or (ii) sell, lease, transfer, 
assign, or otherwise dispose of any property or assets financed wholly or in part with 
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section II
Each Technical Assistance Agreement shall contain terms and conditions whereby:
1.
The Borrower agrees:
(a)
to finance the cost of the assistance referred to in Part B.2 of the 
Project as follows: (i) 100% during the first year after the Approval Date; (ii) 65% 
during the second year after the Approval Date; and (iii) 30% during the third year 
after the Approval Date.
(b)
to procure, on behalf of the Beneficiary, the services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Technical Assistance Grant as provided in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement upon request of the Beneficiary; and
(c)
to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to benefit from the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Technical Assistance Agreement.
2.
The Beneficiary agrees:
(a)
to provide the necessary information to the Land Fund to enable the 
Borrower to comply with its obligation as provided in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
to procure the services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Technical Assistance Grant as provided in Section 3.02 of this Agreement  in cases 
other than that referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this Section; and
(c)
to finance the cost of the assistance referred to in Part B.2 of the 
Project as follows: (i) 35% during the second year after the Approval Date; (ii) 70% 
during the third year after the Approval Date; and (iii) 100% thereafter, such 
financing to be made in cash. 
3.
For purposes of this Schedule, the term “Approval Date” means the date on which 
the Borrower approved the corresponding Technical Assistance Grant.
