Report No. PID6829
Project Name                     Guatemala-Land Fund Project (+)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Natural Resources and Rural Poverty
Project ID                       GTPE54462
Implementing agency              Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food
7 Ave. 12-90, Zona 13
Guatemala, Guatemala
(502) 230-4450; fax 334-3510
Borrower                         Government of Guatemala
Date this PID prepared           November 1997
Date initial PID prepared        November 1997
Projected Appraisal date         March 1998
Projected Board date             July 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.              Guatemala signed a comprehensive Peace Accord on December 29, 1996,
to end thirty-six years of civil conflict. The Accord supports establishing
democracy and introducing economic policies which will foster sustainable
growth. The promise of peace has provided Guatemalan society with a point of
convergence, opening spaces for the Government of Guatemala (GoG) to pursue
fiscal, institutional and legislative reforms to support its development
agenda. The Accords land-related commitment include establishing a Land Fund,
which would be supported under this operation. Other commitments include
establishing of a cadastral registry and cadastre, which the GoG has requested
be supported under a separate operation (the proposed Land Administration
Project), and land conflict resolution mechanisms, which would be supported
under both operations depending on their nature. Guatemala's greatest
challenge is to reduce the poverty which afflicts over 75t of the population,
86t of the rural population and 93t of the indigenous population. tc " Since
the return of civilian rule to Guatemala in 1985, progress towards negotiating
a lasting peace, establishing democracy and introducing economic policies
which will foster sustainable growth has been slow and uneven. Government's
inability to overcome conservative private sector opposition to tax system
reform and enforcement has resulted in significant fiscal problems.
Guatemala's greatest challenge is to reduce the poverty which afflicts over
75t of the population, 86t of the rural population and 93t of the indigenous
population."
2.              Guatemala   has one of the most unequal distributions of land
ownership in the world. Limited access to land and extreme inequality in land
ownership were clearly identified as central factors contributing to rural
poverty in the Country Assistance Strategy (Report Number 14451-GU). Moreover,
studies undertaken in other countries, (i.e. Brazil, Colombia, South Africa)
have shown that family farms are more productive and more labor intensive than
large farms thus demonstrating that the skewed land distribution limits
agricultural productivity and employment. This finding is consistent with



studies in other rural labor surplus economies that show significant
efficiency gains in small family farms compared to large estates. The high
land ownership concentration--in spite of the apparent inefficiency of many
large farms--has been the result of several economic distortions. Distortions
have included subsidized agricultural credit, inflation and tax provisions
that made land attractive as financial investment and inflation and tax
shelter. Distortions have driven land prices well above the present value of
agricultural returns, thus, making land inaccessible to small farmers. Small
farmers' access to credit is often limited by their lack of registered titles,
creating a further bias in favor of large farms. Also, land records in the
rural area of Guatemala are very deficient, and an estimated 95% of rural
properties are not registered. The situation in Guatemala is consistent with
the one described in recent empirical studies (Honduras, Brazil) which have
concluded that land markets are local (transactions beyond known locality are
rare) and segmented (within the same socio-economic social strata), because
of informational gaps (deficient land records that lead to prevalence of
reputation- based transactions) and high transaction cost of partitioning
large farms.
3.       Past approaches for addressing problems of land distribution in
Guatemala, as in most Latin American countries, have focused on Government-
administered land reform through expropriation and redistribution or by
colonization of marginal and/or forest lands. These approaches had limited
success. Therefore, and in light of Peace Accord commitments and negative past
experiences, the Government is eager to experiment with faster, less costly,
and less conflictive approaches to land distribution.
4.      Today, there are a series of new conditions, both in Guatemala and at the
Bank, that create a unique opportunity for tackling this issue with much
greater prospects of success. In addition to Peace Accords commitments, these
include:  a)      Many of the economic distortions affecting the land market
have recently been eliminated. Agricultural credit subsidies have been cut
drastically, and inflation is low (so land is not sought after as an inflation
hedge). These changes have reduced the financial attractiveness of land
holdings for non-productive purposes. However, lack of proper collection of
land taxes imposes only a negligible cost for holding it idle; the World Bank
is supporting municipalities' strengthening for administration of the land tax
(IDF TF-044097-GU); b)        Increasingly violent land conflicts have built up
pressure on the Government to address the problem of skewed land distribution;
c)      The Government recognizes the limits of administrative land reform
through expropriation and redistribution and is eager to experiment with
alternative approaches to land distribution;   d)       The success of the new
generation of land reform projects in South Africa, Brazil, Colombia has
established an alternative model to administrative land reform which can be
used as a basis for experimentation in other countries; e) Finally, a recent
clarification of Bank policies allows the inclusion of land purchases as
counterpart-financed project costs.
5.      In Guatemala, the agricultural sector generates one quarter of GDP, 55%
of foreign exchange earnings and over 50% of employment.    It is dualistic,
consisting of a modern sector dedicated primarily to export crops and a
traditional sector which largely produces basic grains. Agricultural
production has grown relatively steadily since 1990 at about 2.7 percent per
year (less than population growth of about 3 percent per year). Agricultural
exports are dominated by traditional products such as coffee, cotton, sugar,
- 2 -



and bananas. Total foreign exchange earnings from these products, however,
represented 43 W of total export receipts in 1996, down from 58t a decade
earlier, owing to falls in production and lower world prices for these
commodities. Non-traditional agricultural exports, such as vegetables and
flowers, on the other hand, have increased substantially since 1983: they now
generate about 12t of total foreign exchange earnings and about 22 ; of
agricultural export earnings.
tc "   The agricultural sector generates one quarter of GDP, 60- of foreign
exchange earnings and over 50- of employment.    It is dualistic, consisting of
a modern sector dedicated primarily to export crops and a traditional sector
which largely produces basic grains. Agricultural production has grown
relatively steadily since 1986 at between 3 and 4 percent per year.
Agricultural exports are dominated by traditional products such as coffee,
cotton, sugar, and bananas. Total foreign exchange earnings from these
products, however, have declined by about 429 since 1983, owing to falls in
production and lower world prices for these commodities. Non-traditional
agricultural exports, such as vegetables and flowers, on the other hand,
almost doubled in value between 1983 and 1993.   They now generate about 12t of
total foreign exchange earnings and about one third of agricultural export
earnings."
Project Objectives
6.      The project's objectives are to support the already signed, land-related
commitments under the Socioeconomic and Agrarian and Indigenous Peoples sub-
accords, particularly on land access and funds for complementary investment
subprojects, as a mechanism to alleviate rural poverty.     The project's
specific objectives are to: (a) assist the GoG to create a Land Fund (LF-Fondo
de Tierras) to facilitate access to land (purchases and rentals) as well as
investment for community sub-projects planned and implemented by community
associations; and (b) to improve the legal and institutional framework for
land markets to work more efficiently. Indigenous and poor communities, and
small-scale land holders, including rural women, would be the principal
project beneficiaries because they have least access to land. The purchases
would be negotiated between willing sellers and willing buyers. Grant-
financing of complementary infrastructure would alleviate poverty as with
other social funds. Only land with clear tenure is eligible to participate in
the program -- although improvements for land registry and cadastre services
are needed and would be supported under the parallel Land Administration
Project, transactions where tenure is clear do take place. Invaded land would
not be eligible and therefore there would be no incentive to invade.
Project Description
7.      The proposed project would support the Government initiative to implement
a market-assisted land reform program. The project would consist of four
components:
(a) Project Management , or Fondo de Tierras institutional support, to assist
in the creation of a market-assisted land purchase program for selected
beneficiaries. The Bank would not finance any land purchases or rentals, but
would help establish the institutional framework for the program,
consolidating and redefining the existing policy-contradictory and
unsustainable programs into a single program. The target number of
beneficiaries is about 10,000-15,000 families, depending on the funding the
-3 -



program will be able to muster for land purchases. The activities included in
this component include project management including setting up the Land Fund
Project Unit (LPU) in the Ministry of Agriculture to manage the proceeds of
the Land Fund Trust Fund (TF- or fideicomiso), which resides in a financial
institution; train the LPU staff to manage contracts to NGOs and intermediary
agencies; carry out beneficiary eligible and selection processes, set up a
land markets information system focusing on price, carry out legal research on
land tenure and local land prices, research financial engineering for land
market financing and facilitation, and carry out the administrative aspects of
project management, including funds administration (of the TF and the loan
proceeds), management, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and financial
management including audits. The component would finance vehicles, office
equipment and documentation systems, technical assistance and training of LF
staff, as well as of public agencies and private NGOs, communication
campaigns, and recurrent cost on a declining basis.
(b) Community Institutional Building, involving pre- and post- land purchase
services where direct beneficiaries are the communities. The component would
finance technical assistance, services and training to help communities
establish their legal entity status so that they can own land and register
this ownership, organize themselves according with their uses and practices,
conduct research of legal status of prospective lands to be purchased, prepare
investment proposals, access rural financial markets, contract technical and
financial advice for investment planning and implementation once land grants
have been approved, and follow up on the productive projects.
(c) Community Investments. This consist of a fund to grant-finance social
(e.g. small water systems) and productive (e.g. access roads) complementary
infrastructure investments related to land purchased under the program.     In
order to provide maximum opportunities for income diversification, there will
be a negative list of investments which cannot be financed by the Fund.
Eligible investments would be selected on economic and environmental criteria.
In August 1997, MAGA carried out --with Bank, RUTA and FAO/CP assistance-- a
seminar to train staff from Land Fund, financial institutions, Peasant
Organizations and private foundations (e.g. Guillermo Torriello, Fundacion
AGROS) on the methodology to evaluate productive projects. To avoid possible
duplication with social funds, the Land Fund would coordinate with other
social funds (Fondo de Inversi6n Social (FIS), Fondo Nacional para la Paz
(FONAPAZ)) which would assist in the execution of the required infrastructure
investments. The project does not include financing for working capital as
this would be provided by commercial banks. Grant-financing of complementary
infrastructure would alleviate poverty as with other social funds, and
increase attractiveness for low-value underdeveloped and idle land. (often
without improvements and in remote areas).
(d) Land Purchases. This component consist on financing the purchase of land,
and would be totally financed by counterpart funds.
Project Costs and Financing
8.      Total estimated project costs are US$ 35 million with a proposed loan of
$20 million. The scope of the project may be changed at the request of the
GoG. The preliminary unit-cost of an average productive project (including
land) subsidy is currently Q7,000 per family (or $1,200). The subsidy is the
equivalent to the yearly legal minimum wage (including benefits)for a worker,
- 4 -



which is the equivalent of the yearly cost of food security for a family. The
TF received, in 1997, a transfer of Q20 million from the National Budget and
Q16 million (both total $6.0 million) from USAID, for land purchases and other
activities.
Project Coordination and Implementation
9.      Project Coordination. Because land is an important issue and many GoG
institutions have different mandates regarding land policy and management, the
GoG has established a high-level commission to make policy and strategic
decisions and coordinate on all activities related to land both within the GoG
and with donors and civil society. In April 1997, the GoG established
PROTIERRA (Institutional Commission for the Strengthening and Development of
Land Property Rights), including the Ministry of Finance, the Peace
Secretariat (SEPAZ) and MAGA (coordinator) heads, as well as the Planning
Secretariat (SEGEPLAN), the General Property Registry (RGP), and the Military
Geographic Institute (IGM). PROTIERRA is supported by a technical-juridical
unit (UTJ), funded by a Swedish grant. PROTIERRA coordinates all land-related
activities, including donor-supported projects in land registry and cadastre,
land conflict resolution, Land Fund, geographic and statistical information,
land taxes and rural investment. The Viceminister of MAGA, Board Director of
the Presidential Office on Land Conflict Resolution and the Coordinator and a
member of the UTJ are the Government's four representatives to the Paritary
Commission on Land Issues established under the Indigenous People Sub-accord
commitment.
10.     Project Implementation. The Viceminister of MAGA is responsible for the
Land Fund. The Land Fund Project Unit would be small, and mainly in charge of
managing contracts for execution by NGOs, local governments, and communities
themselves. The National unit for RUTA (Regional Unit for Technical
Assistance), a Bank-executed, multi-donor funded project, will be charged
with preparing and monitoring impact of the project. The Land Fund Unit is
responsible for project implementation, administration, monitoring and
reporting.
11.     Community families (poor rural dwellers who do not own land or own land
insufficient for subsistence) would first be screened for eligibility based on
income and organizational criteria. Once certified eligible, the communities
themselves would select suitable lands and negotiate the price with willing
sellers. The associations would present, to the Land Fund, at least two
owners' declaration of willingness to sell at a specified price and request
confirmation that: (a) the title to the land is clean, and no invasion or
other condition threatens the effectiveness of the land purchase; and (b) the
negotiated purchase price is consistent with market conditions. Eligible
communities would then qualify for a grant (up to about 8% of land price) to
finance technical assistance to prepare a productive project. The community
hires the intermediary agent (firm, NGO, or public agency) to prepare the
project with this "technical assistance grant", (financed under component 2
above). These intermediary agents have started and will continue to receive
training in project proposal preparation. Once prepared, the proposal is
submitted to the LPU for approval. If approved by the LPU, the communities
are eligible for the grant, land financing, and community investment grant, to
pay for the productive investment, including the land purchase. The grant is
paid out of the Trust Fund (fideicomiso), i.e. Government budget resources or
donor grants, and administered by BANRURAL, a recently privatized Bank.
- 5 -



Communities internally would decide on land allocation to their individual
members and the corresponding payment obligations. The land debt service
cannot exceed the productive investment's cash flow after costs are deduced.
Because land so purchased will have no restriction on its tenure, it can be
sold or rented. Community labor and land would constitute the counterpart
contribution by the community for the community investments.
Project Sustainability
12.       Two elements of sustainability are critical: (a) community
knowledge and participation to make their own investment decisions; and (b)
technical assistance and training in institutional organization both for the
Fondo de Tierras, the intermediary agents , and beneficiary communities
themselves, to sustain a partnership aimed at increasing financial
sustainability of the productive projects. By focusing on transferring
essential resources and skills to communities, and intermediate agencies and
local governments, the project would improve the management and profitability
of land and human resources that this project would assist avail to the
communities.
13.     The community-based sub-projects would finance relatively small
investments which are easily maintained by the communities themselves, both
technically and financially. Equally important is the fact that client-driven
sub-projects, identified and implemented by the communities, have demonstrated
a high degree of ownership by beneficiary groups and their consequent
willingness to maintain them.
14.     Financial analysis confirms the financial sustainability of the farm
operations established under the project. In fact, income increases are
sufficient for significant savings and investments that would allow additional
medium and long-term income increases. Additional factors favoring the
sustainability of project benefits include: a) incentives for self selection
of suitable beneficiaries because of the requirement to repay the land loan;
b) a high degree of community participation in identification, preparation,
contracting, implementing and supervising subprojects; c) counterpart funding
by beneficiaries is likely to ensure a high level of sustainability of
subproject benefits. tc "        By transferring essential resources and skills to
farmers, grassroots rural producers' organizations, and small property owners,
project impact on growth and poverty alleviation will be sustainable and will
be maintained beyond the life of the project."
Lessons Learned
15.     For more than two decades the Bank has been involved in land reform and
land tenure issues under its poverty-oriented rural development strategy. In
1975 the World Bank published a land reform paper, whose principles remain
valid to date and are applied in the proposed project as follows.
16.     The proposed project draws from the lessons of the past land adjudication
programs in Guatemala and elsewhere. Government-sponsored Instituto Nacional
de Transformaci6n Agraria (INTA) has a substantial backlog in adjudication and
titling due to unclear adjudication principles. USAID-financed Fundaci6n del
Centavo (FUNDACEN) failed to improve beneficiary income because it expected
beneficiaries to be able to repay their land loans based on a limited range of
-- mostly agricultural -- activities. Also, because land debts were based on
- 6 -



inflated prices negotiated by the implementing agencies and not the
beneficiaries, they were higher than what the beneficiaries' cash flow could
repay. In South Africa, however, a market-assisted land reform program was
implemented -- with Bank technical assistance, closely followed by similar
programs in Colombia and Brazil. This program allows potential beneficiaries
to select and negotiate land, and receive complementary grants and technical
assistance to buy land and finance productive projects (see paras below).
Additionally in Guatemala (as in Brazil), productive project proposals would
be eligible unless on a negative list (rather than restricting options solely
to agriculture) and agreed by the Government, to provide the maximum
flexibility for diversifying income sources to beneficiaries.
16.     The proposed project banks on the explicit GoG commitments under the
Peace Accords. Conflicting bureaucratic priorities are less likely once
institutional strengthening establishes the incentives to increase services
where none were hitherto available. Lack of institutional capacity is dealt
with in the current project by technical assistance, training, informed
participation, and community development within the context of Peace Accords.
18.     The concept of market-assisted land reform underlying the proposed
project builds upon the extensive lessons of often negative experience with
land reform in many other countries:   a)      Avoid excessive subsidies, tax
breaks and blanket debt relief for farmers since these benefits are captured
by those who own most land; they subsidize inefficient farms which otherwise
would (and should) fail; they increase the price of land beyond the reach of
the poor who do not have access to those benefits; and they create an
unsustainable fiscal drain. On the other hand, the removal of agricultural
subsidies increases the supply of land.   b)      Avoid expropriation and land
acquisition by Governments since they create legal disputes and delays, and
high administrative costs. Compared to beneficiaries, Governments have a poor
record in identifying the most suitable lands. Instead, base land reform on
voluntary deals between willing buyers and sellers supported by partial
subsidies to poor buyers. c)       Avoid administrative selection of
beneficiaries since bureaucrats are ill equipped to identify farmers with the
most suitable skills. Instead, local authorities, NGOs, or communities should
participate in the selection of beneficiaries.   d)       Complementary
investments in infrastructure are essential for the success of land reform
programs.
19.     A recent Bank report ( draft Rural Poverty in Latin America, Analytic,
New Empirical Evidence, and Policy, Report No. 16792-LAC) concludes the
following:  a)       Land redistribution, by itself, is not a solution to rural
poverty. Without complementary services and investments to induce
technological change, production and income levels will remain relatively low;
b)      A large land distribution program may trigger an increase in land
prices; c) Countries should not rely exclusively on land reform as main
instrument to reduce poverty in rural areas. Other options include: promoting
land rentals and sharecropping, titling and registering land, and land
taxation.   The proposed project is of limited coverage, and is complemented
by the proposed Land Administration Project and the ongoing Institutional
Development Grant for Municipal Strengthening for Administration of Land Taxes
(TF 28551-GU).
20.     In terms of the delivery mechanism for the project, the lessons learned
from the twenty years of project experience with rural development in
-7 -



Northeast Brazil provide valuable insights and include the following: a)
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making ensures more
efficient project administration. Decentralization of resource allocation and
investment decisions to communities should be accompanied by a clearly defined
and well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the
misuse of funds. b)       Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple,
explicit and monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency
and minimize political interference in project resource allocation; and ensure
that project resources do reach the poorest communities. c)        Participation
in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and a
willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance
of project investments. Therefore, project investments are more sustainable
when the communities contribute to sub-project financing in a cost-sharing
arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation.    d)      A
widely disseminated and carefully designed publicity campaign is essential to
ensure transparency and proper knowledge of the program's objectives and
contents by all potential beneficiaries. e)       Technical assistance should
be accessible to rural communities to enable them to identify, prepare and
implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete
for investment funds. f)       Standardization of subproject documents,
technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject preparation and
evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents
overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects, thereby encouraging
greater participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks in the
subproject cycle. All lessons are being applied in this project, except for
project standardization due to the lower volume of transactions expected
(relative to Brazil). In Guatemala, the IDB is implementing a similar Fund in
Huehuetenango, except for the land purchase component.
Poverty Category
21.     The project would have a heavy poverty focus and would be included in the
World Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. Project beneficiaries would
be all those selected from the potential pool which both qualifies on income
criteria and submit a viable productive project proposal to the Land Fund.
Environmental and Social Aspects
22.     The project has been assigned an environmental classification of B.
Because of their relatively small size, most community subprojects would not
have a significant effect on the environment. These are the two main aspects
to be considered: (i) impact on the environment; and (ii) on indigenous
peoples and their informed participation. For (i) environmental impact, the
project would not forcibly resettle people, but assist the Government
subsidize land purchases of poor beneficiaries, positively contributing to
issues of land degradation due to overuse, land fragmentation due to resource
constraints. The Land Fund's criteria for approving investment proposals would
be both economic and environmental. Every project would be screened for
potential negative environmental effects and, if any exist, only approved if
the investment plan includes mitigating measures. The project would support
sustainable use by favoring incentives to bring idle land into sustainable
production.   Moreover, the Fondo de Tierras would involve productive project
financing, and technical assistance, both of which would help develop and
apply environmental criteria and procedures for the Fund to promote
sustainable development of land purchases financed by this Fund. The project
- 8 -



does not include involuntary resettlement, because beneficiary communities
which are selected would move to their new properties of their own volition.
23.     With respect to (ii), the Indigenous Peoples Sub-accord constitutes an
impressive framework of commitments in policy and specific activities
consonant with O.D. 4.20. A full Social Assessment and Participation Plan
will be available at the Public Information Center at or prior to appraisal.
As inputs to the Social Assessment, the Bank organized two broad consultations
with Mayan Elders in September and December of 1996, and drafted an Indigenous
Peoples Profile. Within this framework, clear guiding principles to
operationalize commitments were discussed with the GoG in March 1997,
including informed participation, concertation and consultation, access to
provision or management of project services, and training of indigenous
peoples. The proposed Land Fund project design and implementation will reflect
the results of this participatory process.
Program Objective Categories
24.     Poverty Reduction (PA).
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 11, 1998.
-9-



Annex
The project has been assigned an environmental classification of B.
The Guatemala Land Fund would address two main aspects: impact on the
environment and on indigenous peoples. The Land Fund's criteria for approving
investment proposals would be both economic and environmental. For
environmental impact, and because of their relatively small size, most
community subprojects (including land purchases or rentals) would not have a
significant effect on the environment. The project would, however, ensure
proper environmental screening and enforcement measures, to prevent certain
types of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing negative
effects on the environment. The Operational Manual (a satisfactory Manual
would be a condition of effectiveness) would specify key environmental
criteria and screening and enforcement procedures to be followed. Based on
these specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject
proposal presented by the community associations would include a simple
environmental assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a standard
format. The environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be
the responsibility of the Land Fund Unit, which would conduct it or contract
it out. The project will explicitly exclude the purchases of protected lands
or areas with primary forest or with land claims by indigenous people.
In contrast to conventional land reform projects, which because of lower
land costs are often located at or near the agricultural frontier, land
purchases under the proposed project will likely occur well within traditional
agricultural areas where services are available and markets are near.
Therefore, the project is consistent with an overall approach to reduce the
pressure on protected areas and primary forests by intensifying land use
within the agricultural frontier.
Moreover, the Fondo de Tierras would involve productive project
financing, including technical assistance, to provide access to sustainable
technology.
The project does not include involuntary resettlement, because
beneficiary communities which are selected would move to their new properties
of their own volition.
With respect to indigenous peoples, the Indigenous Peoples Sub-accord
constitutes an impressive framework of commitments in policy and specific
activities consonant with O.D. 4.20. A full Social Assessment and
Participation Plan will be available at the Public Information Center at or
prior to appraisal. As inputs to the Social Assessment, the Bank organized two
broad consultations with Mayan Elders in September and December of 1996, and
drafted an Indigenous Peoples Profile. Within this framework, clear guiding
principles to operationalize commitments were discussed with the GoG in March
1997, including informed participation, concertation and consultation, access
to provision or management of project services, and training of indigenous
peoples. The proposed Land Fund project design and implementation will reflect
the results of this participatory process.
- 10 -



