Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H484 - AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Strengthening Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 24, 2009  
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H484 - AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 24, 2009, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to five 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,500,000) (the 
“Grant” or the “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by DAB (the Project 
Implementing Entity) in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that the Project I
mplementing Entity’s 
Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter is that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity 
and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in 
accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Pashtunistan Watt 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Mohammed Omar Zakhilwal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist DAB to improve its core function of 
banking supervision and regulation, and to help improve access to formal banking 
services by establishing key initial building blocks for further financial sector reform. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Strengthening Capacity of DAB
(a) 
Strengthening of the off-site supervisory functions of DAB through: (i) the 
automation of off-site supervisory capabilities; (ii) the provision of training of 
staff involved in off-site supervision; (iii) development of career plans for 
supervisory staff; and (iv) enhancing the role of case managers. 
(b) 
Strengthening of DABs accounting and internal audit capabilities through: (i) 
provision of technical assistance for the completion of an accounting manual, 
preparation of accounting policy and operation procedures for effective 
implementation of the accounting manual, and capacity building for 
implementation of the manual; (ii) provision of training to accounting staff for 
professional development and career enhancement; (iii) provision of technical 
assistance for the completion of an audit manual, preparation of audit policies 
and operation procedures for effective implementation of the audit manual and 
capacity building for implementation of the manual; and (iv) provision of 
training to audit staff for professional development and career enhancement.  
(c) 
Establishment of an effective human resource management system through:  
(i) provision of technical assistance for the development and implementation of 
new human resources policies
 in line with DAB’s strategic plan; (ii) provision of 
training to DAB staff for the implementation of the new human resources 
policies and general awareness thereof; and (iii) automation of human resources 
management to store and maintain a database of information of DAB’s 
employees. 
(d) 
Development of an effective information technology system through the 
provision of technical assistance for: (i) the updating of DAB’s information 
system strategy plan in order to determine the requirements for increasing 
automation in DAB’s supervision department and human resource department 
and the basic requirements for operating a public credit registry and a collateral 
registry; and (ii) automation of off-site supervision, HR management, public 
credit registry and collateral registry in accordance with the updated information 
system strategy plan. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Part 2:
Development of Financial Sector Infrastructure
(a) 
Establishment of a public credit registry through: (i) the provision of technical 
assistance for the review and drafting of relevant enabling laws, regulations and 
amendments thereto; (ii) conducting workshops to explain the benefits of credit 
reporting systems; (iii) acquisition and installation of physical infrastructure 
including software and hardware development; and (iv) organization of study 
tours and workshops to educate relevant stakeholders on the benefits of a public 
credit registry. 
(b) 
Establishment of a collateral registry through: (i) the provision of technical 
assistance for the review and drafting of relevant enabling laws, procedures,  
regulations and amendments on registration of collateral; (ii) conducting 
workshops to explain the benefits of a collateral registry; (iii) acquisition and 
installation of physical infrastructure including software and hardware 
development; (iv) provision of training aimed at building internal capacity for 
managing the registry; (v) development of a registry guide and manual; and  
(vi) conducting workshops to explain the benefits of a collateral registry. 
(c)  
Supporting the physical development of the Afghanistan Institute of Banking and 
Finance including: (i) renting of premises, acquisition of necessary equipment 
and hiring of staff; and (ii) assisting in the development of a training 
collaboration agreement with a regional banker’s training institute.  
Page  8
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The institutional arrangements for the Project are set out in the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement. 
B. 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity under a Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, 
under terms and conditions approved by the Association, which shall include the 
following: 
(a) 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be made available by the Recipient to the 
Project Implementing Entity on a grant basis; 
 
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to carry out the Project: 
(i) with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
management, financial, procurement and social standards acceptable to 
the Association, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities 
and other resources required for the purpose;  
 
(c) 
the Recipient shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Project Implementing Entity to the use of the proceeds of the Grant made 
available under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement upon failure by the 
Project Implementing Entity to perform its obligations thereunder; and 
 
(d) 
in the event that any portion of the proceeds of the Grant provided to the 
Project Implementing Entity is not used for Eligible Expenditures or is 
otherwise used in breach of this Agreement, the Project Agreement, or 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, the Project Implementing Entity shall, 
upon notice from the Recipient or from the Association, refund the 
notified amount to the account provided in such notice. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any of its provisions
.
Page  9
-
7
-
C. Anti-Corruption
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 1. 
The Recipient shall and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, maintain 
or cause to be maintained a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish to the Association 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, to have its 
Financial Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 
(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover 
the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements 
for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
-
8
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2.
 Consultan
ts’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be subject to the following additional procedures:
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
Page  11
-
9
-
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders will provide bid security or a bid security declaration form as 
indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder’s bid security or the 
declaration form will apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
Page  12
-
10 -
 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than four (4) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding will not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(e)  
Single Source Selection 
(f)  
Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  13
-
11 -
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for goods procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding or Direct Contracting regardless of value; (b) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding; (c
)
each contract for consultants’ services with 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services with individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services procured on 
the basis of Single-Source Selection regardless of value. All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  14
-
12 -
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods,
 consultants’ services and 
training for Part 1 of the Project 
3,870,000 100% 
(2)  Goods, consultants’ services and 
training for Part 2 (a) of the 
Project 
1,090,000 100% 
(3)  Goods, consultants’ services and 
training for Part 2 (b) of the 
Project 
310,000 100% 
(4)  Goods, consultants’ services and 
training for Part 2(c) of the 
Project 
170,000 100% 
(5) Unallocated 
60,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,500,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,630,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after January 1, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures under the Project; 
(b)  
for payments under Category 2 of the table in Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2, unless the Recipient has adopted appropriate rules or 
regulations enabling the creation of a public credit registry; and 
(c) 
for payments under Category 3 of the table in Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2, unless the Recipient has adopted appropriate legislation 
enabling the creation of a collateral registry. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
Page  15
-
13 -
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance” means the institute that has been 
legally established under the Corporations and Limited Liability Companies Law 
(2007) and referred to in Part 2(c) of the Project. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“DAB” means the Da Afghanistan Bank, which is the Recipient’s central bank, 
operating in accordance with the Law of Da Afghanistan Bank (2003), or any 
successor thereto. 
6. 
“Financial Management Manual” means DAB’s financial management manual 
for the Project to be adopted in accordance with Section IV(c) of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement, setting out the financial management arrangements for 
the Project.   
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“Part” means a part of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Financing 
Agreement. 
9. 
“PIC” or “Project Implementation Cell” means the unit within DAB established 
for the purpose of, 
inter alia
,
providing technical support and carrying out Project 
supervision, as provided for in Section I(1)(b) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
Page  16
-
14 -
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 26, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means DAB. 
 
13. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Law of Da Afghanistan 
Bank (2003) and the Law of Banking in Afghanistan (2003). 
 
14. 
“Project Steering Committee” or “PSC” means the Committee within DAB to be 
established in accordance with Section IV(a) of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement for the purpose of providing overall guidance and strategic direction 
for the Project. 
15. 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
