Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H484 - AF 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Strengthening Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
Da AFGHANISTAN BANK 
 
Dated May 24, 2009  
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 24, 2009, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“Association”) and Da AFGHANISTAN BANK 
(the “Project Implementing Entity” or “DAB”) (the “Project Agreement”) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between Islamic 
Republic of Afghanistan (the “Recipient”) and the Association.  The Association and the 
Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01.  The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Governor, Da 
Afghanistan Bank. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Da Afghanistan Bank 
 
 
Ibn-e-Sina Watt 
 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Facsimile:  
 
93 (20) 2100305 
 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Da AFGHANISTAN BANK 
 
By  
 
/s/ Abdul Fitrat 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
DAB shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Project: 
(a) 
a Project Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the Governor or the first 
Deputy Governor of DAB, and composed of all heads of departments 
involved in implementation of the Project, to be responsible for 
overseeing the overall implementation of the Project and for providing 
strategic guidance and managerial direction for the Project. More 
specifically, PSC will be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
ensuring that coordination meetings are held regularly;  
(ii) 
reviewing the bimonthly implementation progress report 
prepared by PIC;  
 
(iii) 
examining the progress of implementation of all Parts of the 
Project and providing guidance and decisions as required to PIC 
for smooth Project implementation;  
 
(iv) 
ensuring that PIC is implementing the Project in accordance with 
the
 World Bank’s Procurement Guidelines and Consultant 
Guidelines, and approving all the procurement decisions; 
 
(v) 
approving awards of all contracts, including contract agreements; 
 
(vi) 
reviewing of the quarterly disbursement and financial 
management reports prepared by PIC; and  
 
(vii) 
ensuring that all relevant covenants set out in the Financing 
Agreement and Project Agreement are met as agreed with the 
Association, and that quarterly Project progress reports, and 
interim un-audited financial reports are submitted on time.  
 
(b) 
a Project Implementation Cell led by a Project Director, with terms of 
reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Association, to be 
responsible for the day-to-day management of Project implementation 
and for providing technical and supervisory support for the 
implementation of the Project.  More specifically, PIC will be 
responsible for, 
inter alia
,
coordination of Project implementation among 
the various DAB departments and the PSC, preparation of annual work 
Page  5
-
4
-
plans and budgets, procurement, financial management, and preparation 
of progress reports and submission of such reports to PSC for review and 
approval before submission to the Association.  
2. 
The Recipient through DAB shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Financial Management Manual to be adopted in accordance with Section IV(c) of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
Financial Management Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 4.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed 
with the Association.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Recipient not later one month after 
the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by 
the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than four 
(4) months, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 4.08(c) of the 
General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the Association shall 
reasonably request for the purposes of such Section. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial 
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six 
(6) months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
Section IV. 
Other Undertakings
(a) 
DAB shall no later than June 30, 2009, establish and thereafter maintain 
throughout the period of Project implementation, a Project Steering Committee. 
(b) 
DAB shall no later than October 31, 2009, appoint a financial management 
consultant within PIC and thereafter maintain for the duration of the Project a 
suitably qualified financial management specialist. 
(c)  
DAB shall no later than October 31, 2009, adopt a Financial Management 
Manual for the Project acceptable to the Association. 
 
