 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14780

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Afghanistan
             Project ID: P110644                                                    Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Afghanistan Financial         Project Costs (US$M):                        8.0                     2.3
                         Sector Strengthening
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        8.0                     2.3
      Sector Board:      Financial and Private         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Sector Development
          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                04/30/2009
                                                                Closing Date:           06/30/2014          06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Banking (70%); Credit Reporting and Secured Transactions (30%)
         Theme(s):        Regulation and competition policy (58%); International financial standards and systems
                          (24%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (15%); Other Financial Sector
                          Development (3%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Mauricio Carrizosa      Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Emergency Project Paper (p. 3) of April 2, 2009 states that the objective of the project was “to help Da
    Afghanistan Bank (DAB) improve its core function of banking supervision and regulation; and to help improve
    access to formal banking services by establishing key initial building blocks for further financial sector reform.”

    The objectives stated in the Financing Agreement (p. 4) of May 24, 2009 are the same.



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project included two components:

    Component 1: Strengthening the capacity of Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) (appraisal estimate US $ 5.7 million,
    actual US$ 1.4 million, 24.8% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the strengthening of the
    capacity of DAB, Afghanistan’s Central Bank, through the following activities: i) developing the off-site
    supervision systems and supervision competencies in DAB; ii) developing an effective accounting and internal
    auditing system, which complies with international standards, is operationally critical and supports DAB’s efforts
    to establish credibility; iii) creating an effective human resource management system to develop national staff.

    Component 2: Development of basic infrastructure in the financial sector (appraisal estimate US $ 2.3 million,
    actual US$ 0.90 million, 39.1% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the development of
   financial sector infrastructure, including: i) a Public Credit Registry to provide lenders with information for risk
   assessments on borrowers; ii) a Collateral Registry for movable property to allow lenders to use borrowers’
   property as collateral; and iii) an Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance for the development of
   professional staff.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:


   Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$ 8 million. Actual cost was US$ 2.3 million, 28.9% of the
   appraisal estimate. The project was restructured on February 13, 2014 as follows: i) cancellation of remaining
   undisbursed balance of SDR 4 million (US$ 5.6 million); ii) selected activities were transferred to another Bank
   project, the Financial Sector Rapid Response Project, which received additional financing to implement these
   activities.

   Financing: The project was financed by a US$ 8 million IDA grant.

   Borrower Contribution : There were no contributions by the recipient.

   Dates:

        The Mid-Term Review was originally planned to be conducted on September 1, 2012 but took pace six
         months later on February 24, 2013.
        The Restructuring only took place on February 13, 2014, approximately a year after the Mid-Term Review
         and less than five months before project closing.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: The objectives of the project were substantially relevant. Even though Afghanistan’s financial sector
   experienced growth and total assets of the banking system had increased from US$ 386 million in 2005 to US$
   2.3 billion in 2008, the sector still remained fragile and weak. The share of total credit to Gross Domestic Product
   (GDP) was 6.7% in 2007, significantly less than the average 43% in South Asia, and was seen as an obstacle for
   private sector development. The project at appraisal and evaluation was in line with the Afghanistan National
   Development Strategy (2008-2013), which identified a modern and competitive financial sector as one of its main
   objectives. The project was also in line with the DAB’s Strategic Plan (2009-2014), which aimed to strengthen its
   supervisory function, develop an accurate credit information system, reform human resources, and improve
   capacity in the financial sector. At appraisal the project was in line with the Bank's Interim Strategy Note
   (FY07-FY08), which focused on three pillars: i) building the capacity of the state and its accountability to its
   citizens to ensure the provision of services that are affordable, accessible and of adequate quality; ii)promoting
   growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods; and iii) supporting growth of a formal, modern and
   competitive private sector. The project was also in line with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (2012-2014), which
   focused on building the legitimacy and capacity of institutions, equitable service delivery, and inclusive growth
   and jobs. However, the objectives were overly ambitious given the government’s weak capacity and the country’s
   fragile security situation and the challenge to hire international consultants as a result.



b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The project's components were appropriate for addressing the financial sector challenges Afghanistan
   was facing. These components included activities that aimed to strengthen the capacity of the Da Afghanistan
   Bank (DAB) while also creating a basic infrastructure critical for the development of the financial sector. While the
   Results Framework was structured around components rather than objectives as stated in the PAD (p. 35), the
   components and the intermediate outcomes of each component were logically linked to the project’s objectives. T
   he design has two shortcomings: the link between the planned interventions and expected project outcomes was
   weak and had attribution issues (see section 10), In addition, the project design did not plan for any mitigation
   efforts for weak capacity and fragile security situation in case of such challenges materializing.
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

    Help Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) improve its core function of banking supervision and regulation : Negligible

    Outputs:

        Nine Human Resource policies were developed and initial training was conducted. However, the Human
         Resource management system was not implemented.
        A manual for accounting policies and procedures, a budget manual, and a financial management manual
         were developed, and training on the implementation of these manuals was developed.
        A manual for internal audit, internal audit policies, and an audit charter were developed. Training on the
         manuals was provided, and a detailed assessment of controller general staff and on-the-job training of staff
         was conducted.
        An assessment of the existing Information Technology (IT) was conducted, and an IT development strategic
         plan and implementation roadmap were prepared.
        Technical requirements for a human resource systems automation, audit department automation, and
         foreign exchange and daily exchange rate automation were developed.

    Intermediate Outcomes :

        The target for the number of days required to process supervisory data collected from commercial banks
         was not achieved since the off-site banking supervision activity was not implemented because the borrower
         rejected the output of the IT consultant.
        Even though the target for DAB’s financial statements being prepared according to international financial
         reporting standards with an unqualified opinion was achieved, the result cannot be attributed to the project
         since the training on accounting was minimal.
        The number of training courses implemented on the basis of training needs assessment results was not
         increased as planned since an effective human resource management system in the DAB was not
         established.



    Help improve access to formal banking services by establishing key initial building blocks for further financial
    sector reform: Modest

    Outputs:

        The Afghanistan Institute of Banking was established.

    Intermediate Outcomes :

        3,064 commercial banks staff was trained in the Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF),
         surpassing the target of 500 staff. However, it is not clear how this activity would support the achievement of
         any of the two objectives given that the training of commercial bank staff does not contribute to
         strengthening the DAB's core function or increasing access through reforming the financial sector.
        Enabling legislation for Public Credit Registry (PCR) was implemented and 471 credit reports were sent by
         the PCR to commercial banks, not achieving the target of 7,000.
        Enabling legislation for Collateral Registry was implemented and 1,700 collateral items were added to the
         Collateral Registry, not achieving the target of 2,000 items.

    The PDO indicator used to measure the achievement of the second objective was Afghanistan’s position on the
    ‘Getting Credit” ranking on the World Bank’s “Doing Business indicators”. This indicator measures the
    improvement of credit information sharing and legal rights of borrowers and lenders, not access to banking
    services. Furthermore, the position on the ‘getting credit’ indicator compares performance across countries, not
    the absolute achievement in a country. Therefore, this PDO indicator was inadequate for measuring outcomes
    related to this objective.

    Efficacy for the second project objective is modest.



5. Efficiency:
   Negligible: Both, the PAD and the ICR did not conduct any traditional economic analysis due to the difficulty to
   quantify the economic and financial benefits of the project. Instead, the PAD included a qualitative “business
   benefits” review of the investments which the Bank conducted with DAB management. The review included four
   areas: i) internal process efficiency; ii) benefits to internal and external clients; iii) benefits for compliance,
   regulatory and control framework; and v) work process and manpower efficiency.

   The ICR conducted a similar “business benefits” review and only identified the establishment of the Afghanistan
   Institute of banking and Finance, the expansion of the Collateral Registry, and the progress in the Public Credit
   Registry as benefits of the investment.

   Despite the lack of standard measures, it can be concluded that Component 1 did not have a positive rate of ret
   urn because it did not yield any benefits despite positive costs. While Component 2 yielded some intermediate
   outcomes, there are no metrics of how these contributed to improve banking services or of how cost-effective
   those outcomes were.

   The project closed on time and the undisbursed balance of $5.6 million was cancelled.

   On balance, efficiency is assessed as negligible.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                        No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives was substantial, given the importance of strengthening the financial sector to foster
   private sector development and its role in Government programs. The relevance of design was modest due to the
   failure to address the adverse impact of weak capacity and security conditions on project implementation. The
   achievement of the first objective was eligible and achievement of the second objective was modest. The
   project’s efficiency were negligible.

a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Risk to Development Outcome rating is Negligible to Low since the project only generated a few outcomes.
   However, their sustainability will face risks such as increases in money laundering and terrorist financing, weak
   capacity in the DAB, and changing leadership at DAB, which could affect the operation of the two registries.
   Furthermore, the risk that needed international consultants cannot be hired due to the fragile security situation
   will continue to have a negative impact on capacity building in the DAB but also in any other institutions in
   Afghanistan. Moreover, there is a risk that institutional difficulties at AIBF, following changes in staffing, might
   undermine its mission.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   To prepare the project, the Bank conducted an analysis of Afghanistan’s financial sector and consulted
   several previous Bank and Government reports. Furthermore, the project built on previous Bank projects in
   the Afghan financial sector including the “Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability
   Project” (2008-2012) and the “Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Microfinance Support for Poverty
   Reduction Project” (2003-2010). The Bank consulted working in the financial sector, specifically with the
   International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
   which also supported the government in its financial sector reform efforts. This background required a
   thorough understanding of the technical aspects of the project and of the policies and institutions it supported.

   During project preparation, the Bank identified several relevant risks including money laundering and terrorist
   financing, weak implementation capacity at the DAB, delays in the development of legal frameworks for a
   public credit registry and collateral registry, and weak IDA/IFC coordination. Mitigation measures were
   adequate regarding the legal frameworks and IDA/IFC coordination. However, efforts to address the other
   risks were not sufficient and did not take the fragile security situation of the country and the challenge to hire
   international consultants to build capacity within the DAB into account. For example, given the DAB’s limited
   capacity, it seems unrealistic that DAB would be able to monitor and record any suspicious transactions and
   to regulate the hawaladars, the informal financial network of money transfers, in order to decrease the risk of
   money laundering and terrorist financing.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   According to the ICR (p. 19) the Bank reported implementation progress on a regular basis. The ICR (p. 20)
   states that the Bank did not take proactive actions to address the challenge of hiring international consultants
   even though it was already obvious five months after project effectiveness that this would be a major
   obstacle. Also, the ICR (p. 20) states that the restructuring should have taken place one and a half years
   earlier than it did, given that it was already clear that the project was highly unlikely to achieve its objectives.

   The project faced several financial management and procurement challenges (see section 11b). Even though
   multiple rounds of tendering were required to attract qualified consultants, which led to implementation
   delays, procurement was continuously rated “Satisfactory” during the second half of project implementation.
   Also, implementation progress was rated Moderately Satisfactory between February 2011 and June 2013,
   even though the project experienced significant challenges and had only disbursed 20% of its grant proceeds.
   This suggests insufficient candor on performance ratings




  Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government of Afghanistan was strongly committed to achieving the project’s development objectives. It
   stated in several documents, including the Afghanistan Compact of 2006 and the Afghanistan National
   Development Strategy (2008-20134), its aim to reform the financial system and to improve the access to
   finance as means to enhance economic development. Furthermore, the government passed several laws
   supporting a reform of the financial sector. However, the ICR (p. 20) states that the government’s attention
   during implementation moved towards the resolution of the Kabul Bank crisis, trying to mitigate any negative
   impact on the financial sector. This might have had a negative impact on project outcomes. The ICR did not
   provide any evidence on government consultations with beneficiaries and stakeholders.

   The utilization of M&E results was limited (section 10 b).

   The ICR does not indicate if the government complied with covenants or comment on the government’s
   efforts on financial management and procurement.
  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    A Project Implementation Cell (PIC) within the DAB was responsible for daily project management activities.
    A Project Steering Committee, headed by the Governor or First Deputy Governor, was set up to act as the
    supreme body to monitor and make critical decisions regarding project implementation. Before project
    effectiveness, the DAB hired a project director. The project director and the head of the procurement unit
    attended a Bank procurement training course in order to familiarize themselves with the Bank’s procurement
    procedures.

    However, as one of the risks identified during project preparation, implementation capacity of the DAB was
    weak. The challenge to hire international consultants to support different functions within the DAB, had a
    negative impact on needed capacity building within the institution and on project implementation. Due to weak
    capacity, the project encountered several procurement, financial management and M&E issues (see sections
    10 and 11 for more details). Implementation arrangements on procurement and financial management were
    not adequate.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   While the objective of the project was clearly specified, the project’s PDO indicators were not appropriate. The
   Results Framework in the Emergency Project Paper (p. 35) included two PDO indicators and six Intermediate
   Outcome Indicators. The M&E Framework had two main shortcomings. The first PDO indicator “overall
   improvement of DAB’s core functions of banking supervision and regulation as perceived by the commercial
   banks through biannual surveys and evaluated by the supreme council” presented a conflict of interest since it
   required commercial banks to evaluate the entity that regulated them. The indicator is also qualitative and not
   measurable. The second PDO indicator “An improvement of Afghanistan’s position on the ‘Getting Credit”
   ranking on the World Bank’s Doing Business indicators” assessed the improvement of credit information sharing
   and legal rights of borrowers and lenders, not access to banking services. Furthermore, the ‘getting credit’
   indicator compares performance across countries and does not assess absolute achievements in each country
   and cannot be directly attributed to the project. Therefore, the two indicators of project outcomes were not
   appropriate. The six Intermediate Outcome Indicators were adequate. Five intermediate Outcome Indicators
   were quantifiable and the sixth Intermediate Outcome Indicator was qualitative.


b. M&E Implementation:

   Data for the first PDO indicator was only collected once in 2010 before the Kabul Bank crisis took place. The ICR
   (p.11) states that it was seen as inappropriate to ask commercial banks about bank supervision after a banking
   crisis. Due to the slow implementation of the project, there was little or no data available for the other indicators.
   Only two project activities were monitored regularly, the establishment of the Afghanistan Institute of Banking and
   Finance and of the Collateral Registry.


c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR does not provide any information on the utilization of M&E. However, given the lack of data, utilization
   must have been very limited.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Category C and did not trigger any safeguard policies.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   During project appraisal the financial management risk for this project was rated high. Minimizing the use of the
   designated account and maximizing direct payments to contractors and consultants were identified as mitigation
   efforts. However, the project implementation cell did not have a financial management manual nor a consultant
   responsible for financial management when the project became effective. According to the ICR (p.13) these
   shortcomings were addressed by June 2012 and, as a result, financial management was rated Satisfactory. Also,
   in February 2013 the project encountered shortcomings in the Interim Financial Reports, and the lack of a
   quick-book accounting system, which required the purchase of software. The ICR does not comment on how they
   were solved but states (p.13) that most of these shortcomings were solved by project closing and the final rating
   for financial management was “Moderately Satisfactory”.

   The ICR does not comment if the external auditor’s opinion was qualified.

   Procurement

   Due to weak procurement capacity in the DAB and in the private sector, and lack of a procurement expert in the
   Government, the procurement risk was rated high during project appraisal.

   The Bank tried to build capacity by conducting an intense procurement training for DAB staff, and the
   Procurement Policy Unit in the Ministry of Finance conduced training programs for the staff of the Director
   General. Also, the DAB was to support the procurement of large contracts by the Afghanistan Reconstruction and
   Development Services, the government’s central procurement facilitation unit.

   The project experienced significant challenges in procurement, especially due to the rising security issues and
   therefore the difficulty to hire international procurement consultants. Staff at the project implementation cell were
   supposed to be supported by an international procurement specialist to build capacity and gain experience in
   following Bank procurement procedures. While procurement was rated “Satisfactory” at project effectiveness, it
   was downgraded to “Moderately Satisfactory” and was at “Moderately Unsatisfactory” by June 2010 due to
   delays in hiring an IT consultant and in procuring software and hardware equipment for the project
   implementation cell.

   The ICR does not comment how these issues were addressed by the Bank.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    The ICR did not report unintended impacts.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
        Risk to Development Significant                Negligible to Low       The Risk to Development Outcome
                   Outcome:                                                    rating is Negligible to Low since the
                                                                               project only generated a few outcomes.

            Bank Performance: Moderately               Unsatisfactory          The project had an overly ambitious
                              Unsatisfactory                                   design, and a weak Results Framework
                                                                                  due to weak capacity, the country’s
                                                                                  fragile security situation and the
                                                                                  challenge to hire international
                                                                                  consultants. The Bank's risk mitigation
                                                                                  efforts were insufficient, and the Bank
                                                                                  could have restructured the project
                                                                                  earlier.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR (p. 22) identifies several valuable lessons, including:

    In conflict-countries with a fragile security situation, collaboration between the Bank’s task team and other
     Bank teams working on the country, learning about project implementation challenges can have a positive
     impact on project outcomes. At the time of appraisal the Bank was implementing twelve different projects in
     Afghanistan of which seven had zero disbursement after two years of implementation. This could have been an
     important indication that a wide range of robust mitigation measures were necessary before project
     implementation even started.
    A poor security situation can have a negative impact on project implementation if mitigation measures have not
     been identified in advance. This project experienced significant difficulties in hiring international consultants for
     capacity building within the DAB due to security concerns. However, the project design did not include any
     alternatives.

     A lesson added by IEG:

    Candid performance reporting allows the Bank to take timely corrective actions. In this project, implementation
     progress was rated Moderately Satisfactory between February 2011 and June 2013, even though the project
     experienced significant challenges and had only disbursed 20% of its grant proceeds.



14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

     The ICR provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation and is results oriented. The ICR is
     appropriately candid and identifies valuable recommendations. However, the ICR lacks conciseness and is often
     repetitive in terms of implementation challenges such as the difficulty to hire international consultants. The ICR
     could have provided more in-depth information in critical areas such as financial management and procurement,
     and how the Bank addressed issues in these areas. In terms of procurement challenges, the ICR only states that
     the Bank responded by downgrading the implementation progress of the project but does not specify if any other
     actions were taken. The ICR does not provide a traditional economic analysis. The ICR is rated Satisfactory, with
     shortcomings.


a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
