                                        Document of
                                       The World Bank



                                                              Report No.: ICR00003218




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                      (Grant IDA-H4840)



                                            ON A

                                          GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.5 MILLION
                               (US$8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                          TO THE

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                           FOR A

                     FINANCIAL SECTOR STRENGTHENING PROJECT



                                        April 30, 2015



Finance and Markets Global Practice
Afghanistan Country Unit
South Asia Region
                                    CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2015)

                                     Currency Unit        = Afghani (AFN)
                                        AFGN 1            = US$0.0173
                                         US$1             = AFN 57.9


                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                         December 21 – December 201



                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABA                         Afghanistan Bankers Association
AIBF                        Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance
AML/CFT                     Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism
ANDS                        Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARDS                        Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services
CBS                         Core Banking Solution
CR                          Collateral Registry
DA                          Designated Account
DAB                         Da Afghanistan Bank
EEC                         Enabling Environment Conference
EG&PSS                      Economic Governance and Private Sector Strengthening
FIU                         Financial Intelligence Unit
FSRRP                       Financial Sector Rapid Response Project
FSSP                        Financial Sector Strengthening Project
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
GoA                         Government of Afghanistan
HR                          Human Resources
HRM                         Human Resources Management
IAS                         International Accounting Standards
ICB                         International Competitive Bidding
ICR                         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA                         International Development Association
IFC                         International Finance Corporation
IMF                         International Monetary Fund
IP                          Implementation Progress
ISN                         Interim Strategy Note


1
    Afghanistan financial year was modified in 2011. It used to be March 21 – March 20.
ISR               Implementation Status and Results Report
MFI               Microfinance Institution
MISFA             Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan
ML/FT             Money Laundering/Financing of Terrorism
MoF               Ministry of Finance
MTR               Mid-term Review
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
PCB               Private Commercial Bank
PCR               Public Credit Registry
PDO               Project Development Objective
PEP-MENA          Private Enterprise Partnership–Middle East and North Africa
PIC               Project Implementation Cell
PSC               Project Steering Committee
SCB               State-owned Commercial Bank
SDU               Special Disbursement Unit
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SME               Small and Medium Enterprise
STL               Secured Transactions Law
TTL               Task Team Leader
USAID             United States Agency for International Development




           Vice President:                           Annette Dixon

           Country Director:                         Robert J. Saum

           Practice Manager:                          Niraj Verma

           Project Team Leader:                      Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin

           ICR Team Leader and Primary Author: John P. Byamukama
                                                            CONTENTS


DATA SHEET ............................................................................................................................. i
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................... i
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................. ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................................. vi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................... 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................... 7
3.     Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................. 14
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................. 18
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................. 19
6.     Lessons Learned................................................................................................................ 22
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................... 22
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................................... 24
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ............................................................................................. 26
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 30
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................... 31
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 34
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 35
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................ 36
Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................. 53
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 54
MAP .......................................................................................................................................... 55
                                       DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information
                                                                           Afghanistan Financial
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:             Sector Strengthening
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P110644                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H4840
ICR Date:               04/29/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 5.50M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 1.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 1.50M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 DA AFGHANISTAN BANK
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         04/15/2008    Effectiveness:              06/18/2009          06/18/2009
Appraisal:              03/10/2009    Restructuring(s):                               02/13/2014
Approval:               04/30/2009    Mid-term Review:            09/01/2012          02/24/2013
                                      Closing:                    06/30/2014          06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                       Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                             Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately            Implementing                 Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory        Agency/Agencies:             Unsatisfactory

                                                 i
Overall Bank                 Moderately                   Overall Borrower              Moderately
Performance:                 Unsatisfactory               Performance:                  Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                      Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                                Quality at Entry
                               No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                     (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                   Quality of Supervision
                               Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                            (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                             Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                       70                      64
Credit Reporting and Secured Transactions                                     30                      36


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                         15                        15
International financial standards and systems                                  24                        24
Other Financial Sector Development                                              3                        3
Regulation and competition policy                                              58                        58

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                             At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:                Annette Dixon                            Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:              Robert J. Saum                           Nicholas J. Krafft
Practice Manager/Manager: Niraj Verma                                   Simon C. Bell
Project Team Leader:           Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin              Md. Reazul Islam
ICR Team Leader:               John P. Byamukama
ICR Primary Author:            John P. Byamukama


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to help DAB improve its core function of banking
supervision and regulation; and to help improve access to formal banking services by establishing
key initial building blocks for further financial sector reform.

                                                         ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                          Target Years
                  Overall improvement of DAB's core functions of banking supervision and regulation as
Indicator 1 :     perceived by the commercial banks through biannual service and evaluated by the
                  supreme council.
Value
quantitative or   45                          90                                      Not measured
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                  06/30/2014                              06/30/2014
Comments
                  The survey of commercial banks was conducted once in 2010 and no other survey was
(incl. %
                  taken after that,
achievement)
                  Improve the ranking of the Getting Credit indicator in the annual Doing Business
Indicator 2 :
                  Report
Value
quantitative or   178                         150                                     86
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                  06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments          This was not a good indicator to measure project outcomes. The ranking is dependent
(incl. %          on performance in other countries. Afghanistan rank stood at 86 and 89 in the 2014 and
achievement)      2015 Reports respectively. CR and PCR launched in March and Dec. 2013 respectively.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                                  Values (from                              Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                    approval                               Completion or
                                                                          Values
                                                  documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in number of items of collateral registered in CR
Value
(quantitative     0                           2000                                    1700
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                  06/30/2014                           12/15/2013
Comments          CR became operational in February 2013, has a total registered value of AFN 28.4
(incl. %          billion and all the commercial banks have accounts. Target was 85% achieved. The
achievement)      number of registered items had increased to 3,000 by the end of December 2014.
                  Increase in the number of commercial banks staff trained in Afghanistan Institute of
Indicator 2 :
                  Banking and Finance (AIBF)
Value
                  0                           500                                     3064
(quantitative

                                                     iii
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                    06/30/2014                            06/30/2014
Comments          The target was vastly exceeded. The actual figure includes staff of commercial banks
(incl. %          and MFIs trained. AIBF is now a recognized institute and had started scaling up its
achievement)      activities. But it went through institutional difficulties in 2014.
                  Decrease in the number of days required to process supervisory data collected from the
Indicator 3 :
                  commercial banks
Value
(quantitative     20                            4                                      20
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                    06/30/2014                             06/30/2014
Comments
                  The off-site banking supervision activity was not implemented as the output of the IT
(incl. %
                  consultant was rejected by the Borrower. Target was 0% achieved.
achievement)
                  DAB's financial statements prepared according to international financial reporting
Indicator 4 :
                  standards with an UNQUALIFIED opinion.
Value
(quantitative     Unqualifed Opinion            Unqualified Opinion                    Unqualified Opinion
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                    06/30/2014                              06/30/2014
Comments          The result of this indicator cannot be attributed to the project as technical assistance on
(incl. %          accounting was minimal. The indicator was also not robust; baseline was "Unqualified
achievement)      Opinion" and end-target was also "Unqualified Opinion".
                  Increase in the number of training courses implemented on the basis of training needs
Indicator 5 :
                  assessment results.
Value
(quantitative     90                            135                                    0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                    06/30/2014                             06/30/2014
Comments
                  The strengthening of HR management in DAB was not implemented (based on the
(incl. %
                  findings of the Mid-term Review (MTR)).
achievement)
                  Increase in the number of credit reports sent by the public credit registry (PCR) to the
Indicator 6 :
                  commercial banks
Value
(quantitative     0                             7000                                   0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/10/2009                   06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments          The PCR was launched in December 2013, one month before cancellation of the project
(incl. %          proceeds and six months earlier than the closing date. But by December 2014, 471
achievement)      credit reports had been generated.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                             IP
          Archived                                                                      (USD millions)
  1      11/23/2009              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00


                                                       iv
  2    06/30/2010     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory             0.40
  3    02/14/2011    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.40
  4    12/28/2011     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             1.09
  5    07/09/2012     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             1.28
  6    06/08/2013    Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            1.68
  7    01/27/2014        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   2.32


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Following the March 2013 MTR,
                                                           it was decided to restructure the
                                                           project in coordination with a
                                                           parallel project, the Financial
                                                           Sector rapid response Project
                                                           (FSRRP). The undisbursed SDR4
                                                           million (US$5.6 million) of the
                                                           FSSP was to be cancelled and
  02/13/2014        N         U      U            2.32
                                                           selected activities of FSSP would
                                                           be transferred to the FSRRP under
                                                           Additional Financing in order to
                                                           complete them. The FSSP
                                                           proceeds were cancelled in
                                                           February 2014 and the project
                                                           closed on schedule on June 30,
                                                           2014




                                             v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1. Context at Appraisal

1. Country and Sector Background: Afghanistan is a low-income country of 30.6 million
   people with a gross domestic product (GDP) of US$20.7 billion (in 2013). At the time of
   Appraisal of the Financial Sector Strengthening Project (FSSP) in early 2009, Afghanistan
   had experienced war and internal strife for almost thirty years. During this time, much of
   the country’s infrastructure and human capital had been destroyed. The country also
   experienced political extremes, from the Communist Government supported by the Soviet
   Union, which implemented a centralized economy, to the Taliban Government with almost
   total neglect of the economy.

2. The formal economy and the financial system in Afghanistan were almost non-existent in
   2001 after the fall of the Taliban regime. However, there had been some progress made in
   the development of the country since 2001, but Afghanistan still faced threats from an
   armed insurgency, a high rate of joblessness, high incidence of poverty, especially in the
   rural areas, and lack of proper governance, including corruption. Additionally, the financial
   sector faced the risk of being used as a conduit for channeling and laundering of illegal
   funds from the opium economy and for financing terrorist and insurgent activities.

3. Since 2003, Afghanistan had experienced significant (although volatile) economic growth.
   Key growth drivers were post-conflict recovery in traditional agriculture, reconstruction,
   and public sector investments financed through large external donor assistance. Real GDP
   growth was in double digits between 2002 and 2006, but was reduced to 7.4 percent in
   2007 and to about 3.5 percent in 2009 (due to drought conditions in the country); per capita
   income increased from US$125 in 2002 to US$300 in 2006.

4. Financial Sector Background. At the time of Appraisal of the FSSP, Afghanistan’s formal
   financial sector had experienced considerable growth, although from a low base, especially
   with regard to private commercial banks and an increase in the amount of loans and
   deposits. The banking sector grew from two state-owned commercial banks and four state-
   owned development banks in 2003 to ten privately-owned commercial banks, two state-
   owned commercial banks, and five branches of foreign commercial banks in 2009. Total
   assets of the banking system had increased from AFN 19.3 billion (US$386 million) in
   2005 to AFN 116.7 billion (US$2.3 billion) in 2008, and the share of the private
   commercial banks had expanded from 21 percent to 63 percent with an increase in the
   amount of their assets from AFN 4.0 billion (US$81 million) to AFN 73.5 billion (US$1.4
   billion).

5. Despite this overall growth in the sector and the economy, Afghanistan’s financial sector
   still remained weak and fragile and was identified as one of the constraints to private sector
   development. It was acknowledged that the sector did not meet the financial needs of
   businesses and individuals. Due to highly collateralized lending practices, along with a lack
   of financial intermediation capacity in the financial sector, access to credit was a serious
   bottleneck to private sector development. The share of total credit to GDP was 6.7 percent

                                             1
   (2007) which was far less than the average in South Asia at 43 percent. Afghanistan ranked
   178th out of 181 countries in Doing Business (2009) rankings for “Getting Credit”, a
   measure of credit information-sharing and legal rights of borrowers and lenders.

6. There had been considerable efforts to rebuild the financial sector in terms of its
   institutional and legal framework, including enactment in 2004 of the Law of Da
   Afghanistan Bank (DAB), the Afghanistan Central Bank, and the Law of Banking in
   Afghanistan, but there was still a disproportionately weak capacity for banking supervision
   at DAB, and underdeveloped financial infrastructure. The laws were meant to lay a
   foundation for the re-establishment of DAB as the central bank with autonomous
   regulatory authority to implement monetary policy and banking regulation and supervision.
   However, in a situation where the private commercial banks were experiencing rapid
   growth, the inability of DAB to undertake rigorous banking supervision exposed the
   banking sector to systemic risks. The poor performance or failure of one of these
   commercial banks would easily shatter public confidence in the financial sector.

7. Strong commitment of the Government: The Government of Afghanistan (GoA) recognized
   improvement of the financial system and better access to finance as the main factors to
   enhance economic development in the country. In the Afghanistan Compact (2006), the
   GoA committed itself to undertaking a series of financial sector reforms, including
   strengthening the banking supervision function of DAB, and restructuring of state-owned
   banks. In addition, under the Enabling Environment Conference (EEC) Road Map (2007),
   the GoA, together with Development Partners and the private sector, agreed to take
   strategic actions with a view to “strengthening the financial sector to increase access to
   credit and financial services.”

8. These strategic actions were further reflected in the Afghanistan National Development
   Strategy (ANDS) 2008-13 under the pillar of Economic Governance and Private Sector
   Development. The ANDS described a modern and competitive financial sector as one of
   its main development objectives and articulated a strategy to expand the availability and
   range of financial products and services. The objectives of the FSSP were also in line with
   the priorities of the DAB Strategic Plan (2009-2014): (i) strengthening the supervisory
   function; (ii) building an accurate credit information system; (iii) reforming human
   resources; and (iv) enhancing capacity in the financial sector.

9. Rationale For Bank Involvement: At the time of project design, the USAID-funded
   Afghanistan Economic Governance and Private Sector Strengthening (EG&PSS) Project,
   that contributed immensely to DAB’s institutional building in a number of areas since 2002
   (including on-site examination, laws and legislation, licensing external, off-site reporting,
   early warning systems, and external audit regime, among others) had ended (Ref: Project
   Appraisal Document (PAD), page 18). The core project ended in September 2008 but a
   few consultants continued work on a “no-cost extension” basis until February 2009.
   USAID was expected to continue to support DAB’s capacity building in on-site
   examination through a new contract (the EGGI contract provided this technical assistance
   until the contract was suspended in 2011) coupled with assistance from the IMF METAC
   Facility. However, there was a gap in the off-site supervisory function, which was

                                             2
        understaffed and needed to be strengthened and automated. The DAB also wanted to
        address weaknesses in its internal control systems, to prepare Accounting and Audit
        Manuals and train staff on their usage, and to reform the Human Resources Department.
        The government requested for assistance in these areas and the Bank provided support
        through the FSSP.

    10. Contribution to higher level objectives: The objectives of the FSSP were in line with the
        Economic and Social Development pillars of the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for
        Afghanistan of April 2006, and the new ISN scheduled for delivery in June 2009. The three
        strategic pillars were: (i) building the capacity of the state and its accountability to citizens
        to ensure delivery of services that are affordable, accessible, and of adequate quality; (ii)
        promoting growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods; and (iii)
        supporting growth of a formal, modern, and competitive private sector.

    11. As mentioned earlier, Afghanistan ranked poorly in “Access to Credit” indicators and thus
        the project was a good fit to complement other Bank projects in supporting the private
        sector in Afghanistan. The FSSP also had the advantage of having the International Finance
        Corporation (IFC) on board for technical advice in the implementation of the Public Credit
        Registry (PCR) and Collateral Registry (CR).


    1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

    12. The PDO was to help DAB improve its core function of banking supervision and
        regulation, and to help improve access to formal banking services by establishing key
        initial building blocks for further financial sector reform.

    13. Project Outcome Indicators: The project identified two outcome indicators to measure
        the attainment of the PDO:

        i.       Overall improvement of DAB’s core functions of banking supervision and
                 regulation as perceived by the commercial banks through bi-annual surveys and
                 evaluated by the Supreme Council;
        ii.      An improvement of Afghanistan’s position on the “Getting Credit” ranking on the
                 World Bank’s Doing Business indicators.


    1.3. Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

      The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised during the project period. Following the Mid-
      term Review in March 2013, it was concluded that the project needed to be restructured, in
      coordination with a parallel project, the Financial Sector Rapid Response Project (FSRRP)2,



2
  This project (US$22 million) was approved in 2011 following the Kabul Bank crisis to finance audits of ten
commercial banks and to modernize the national payments system (as it was argued by the Afghan authorities that

                                                      3
      also implemented by DAB. The overall restructuring approach was approved in August 2013
      and involved the following: (i) cancellation of undisbursed balance of FSSP; and (ii)
      Additional Financing to FSRRP to continue selected activities of the FSSP. The Additional
      Financing was approved in November 2013 and the Government requested for a cancellation
      of the undisbursed balance (SDR4 million) of FSSP in early December 2013.

    1.4. Main Beneficiaries

    14. The first main beneficiary was the DAB. The project aimed to help DAB improve its core
        function of banking supervision and regulation. The second main beneficiaries were the
        players in the financial sector, especially the commercial banks, which would benefit from
        the creation of the PCR and CR by getting comprehensive and timely credit reports, reliable
        collateral, and stability in the financial sector as a result of more rigorous supervision by
        DAB, and increased human resource skills from the training at AIBF. The other
        beneficiaries were the general Afghanistan population, and individuals and private sector
        enterprises, who would benefit from improved access to financial services.

    1.5. Original Components

    15. The Project had two components, briefly described below:

    16. Component 1 - Strengthening the Capacity of Da Afghanistan Bank (US$5.7 million).
        This component aimed to support strengthening of DAB capacity through provision of
        consultancy services and financing of IT system development in three critical areas: (i)
        developing off-site supervision systems and supervision competencies in DAB; (ii)
        creating an effective accounting and internal auditing system functioning according to
        generally acceptable international standards, which was operationally critical and
        necessary to establish DAB’s credibility; and (iii) establishing an effective human resource
        management system so it could move from relying on expatriate advisors to relying instead
        on well-trained and empowered Afghan national staff.

    17. Component 2 - Development of Basic Infrastructure in the Financial Sector (US$2.3
        million). In close collaboration with the IFC, this component aimed to support establishing
        the following basic financial sector infrastructure in Afghanistan: (i) a Public Credit
        Registry (PCR) that would provide lenders with information for efficient risk assessment
        of borrowers; (ii) a Collateral Registry (CR) for movable property aimed to provide lenders
        the ability to effectively use borrowers’ property as collateral; and (iii) the Afghanistan
        Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF) that would support development of professional
        human resources for the financial sector. In supporting the establishment of PCR and CR,
        IFC was to provide technical advice for a legal framework, vendor selection, and a public
        awareness program, while the International Development Association (IDA) was to
        provide funding for the physical development of necessary IT systems and training of staff
        on use of the systems. IDA was also to provide support for establishing the AIBF, for

Kabul Bank could not be liquidated as it was responsible for civil servants salary payments, including the army and
the police).


                                                        4
         training equipment, for hiring AIBF staff, and for developing a training collaboration with
         a regional banker’s training institute.


    1.6. Revised Components

    18. There were no revisions to the components.

    1.7. Other Significant Changes

    19. Financial Sector Rapid Response Project approved in August 2011. Following the
        Kabul Bank crisis in 2010 (see Box 1 below), the Government of Afghanistan asked the
        World Bank to finance audits according to international standards of ten commercial banks
        in Afghanistan. In relation to this request, the project team considered restructuring the
        FSSP to cover the cost of these audits. However, in early 2011, despite slow
        implementation progress3, it was considered that the objectives and activities of the FSSP
        were still highly relevant and needed. An Additional Financing to FSSP was also proposed
        but was rejected by Bank Management4. It was then decided to prepare a new project to
        finance the requested audits as well as modernization of the payments system5 under
        OP/BP 8.0 (emergency procedures). The project was approved in August 2011.




3
  When an institution implements a World Bank financed project for the first time, it is not unusual, in weak capacity
environments, that implementation progress is initially slow, but then accelerates once the institution becomes more
familiar and confident with World Bank procedures.

4
  As progress towards achievement of Development Objectives of the FSSP was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory
(because of the Kabul Bank crisis), a waiver for Additional Financing had to be sought. This request for a waiver was
rejected.

5
  As explained in Footnote 2, the Government of Afghanistan considered that Kabul Bank could not be liquidated as
it was responsible for most civil servants salary payments. It was therefore decided to finance the modernization of
the payments system as a medium term solution to facilitate payments in Afghanistan.


                                                          5
                                         Box 1: The Kabul Bank Crisis

   Concerns over the soundness of Kabul Bank caused a run on the bank in early September 2010 during which
   the bank lost about half of its US$1.3 billion deposits. With one-third of the banking system’s assets of US$4
   billion, the crisis threatened the stability of the financial system. The authorities removed the management of
   the bank, putting the bank into conservatorship, and guaranteed all deposits. This helped stem the initial panic
   and stopped the run. When the dust had settled, the government had to shoulder US$825 million for the cost
   of the lender-of-last-resort facility loans that covered the deposit guarantee (about 5 percent of GDP). Kabul
   Bank was subsequently put into receivership, revoking shareholders’ rights a ltogether.

   Aside from the fiscal costs, the Kabul Bank crisis has had a negative impact on intermediation, as it had by
   far the largest and most effective branch network in the country and an effective payments system. These
   helped bring individuals into the formal sector and supported the government’s program of automating
   employee records and salary payments.

   Kabul Bank has been split up into a good bank and a bad bank. The bank’s deposits and good assets were
   transferred to a bridge bank, New Kabul Bank. For the time being, New Kabul Bank cannot extend loans and
   is envisaged to be privatized in 2012*. The bad assets have been retained by the receiver, appointed and
   overseen by the independent Financial Dispute Resolution Commission. Based on current estimates, about
   US$935 million in the asset portfolio are sought for recovery.

   The Kabul Bank crisis has magnified the risks of rapid banking sector growth with inexperienced supervision
   and weak rule of law. Moreover, it has undermined confidence in the banking sector (preference for cash
   increased and deposit growth came to a halt) and further overburdened banking supervision.

   Adapted from IMF Country Report No. 11/330 (November 2011)
   *The privatization of New Kabul Bank is still pending.

20. Cancellation of credit proceeds: By the Mid-term Review in March 2013, almost four
    years into implementation, the FSSP had disbursed only 20 percent of Grant proceeds of
    US$8 million. The project’s implementation progress and disbursement had been very
    slow, due to delays in procurement and an over-ambitious project design, in the weak
    capacity environment. The ratings of both progress toward achievement of PDO and
    implementation progress were downgraded from “Moderately Unsatisfactory” to
    “Unsatisfactory” in the last Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) of January
    2014. Following the agreed restructuring strategy (described in Section 1.3 above), the
    Government of Afghanistan (GoA) requested the cancellation of the remaining SDR4
    million (US$5.6 million) as of December 7, 2013, with the closing of the FSSP remaining
    at the scheduled closing date (on June 30, 2014). The cancellation of undisbursed grant
    proceeds was approved by the Bank on February 13, 2014.

21. Reallocation of Project activities: As part of the restructuring process, the following
   activities were reallocated and incorporated into the Financial Sector Rapid Response
   Project (FSRRP) under an Additional Financing arrangement: (i) re-designed support for
   banking regulation and supervision based on FSSP lessons (US$4.5 million); (ii) support
   for the establishment of PCR (US$2.2 million); and (iii) technical assistance and training
   for the implementation of the PCR and CR. This Additional Financing was designed taking

                                                     6
         into account the lessons identified during the Mid-term Review of the FSSP. Considering
         the weak capacity environment and the difficulty in attracting qualified consultants in
         Afghanistan, it was decided to focus significant resources on one critical activity (banking
         regulation and supervision) to be able to attract qualified firms and to pursue the delayed
         but well performing activities of FSSP (the PCR and CR).


    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


    2.1. Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

(a) Soundness of the Background Analysis

    22. The project was designed after a substantial amount of analysis of the needs of the
        financial sector in Afghanistan. The FSSP was based on the needs of financial sector
        reforms as identified by the GoA in its various policy papers such as the Afghanistan
        Compact (2006), the EEC Roadmap (2007), the ANDS (2008-13), and the DAB Strategic
        Plan (2009-14). The World Bank had also carried out a Financial Sector Study in
        Afghanistan in 2004 and an Investment Climate Assessment in 2006. A combination of the
        above policies and assessments provided the analytical underpinning for choosing the
        specific interventions included in the project. The FSSP aimed to build on the work and
        achievements of the World Bank (earlier Finance and Private Sector Development projects
        included the Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving Sustainability Project,
        2008-2012 and ARTF Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction Project, 2003-2010)
        and other donors in the financial sector, especially the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
        and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The project
        enjoyed support and endorsement of donors as well as from the government of
        Afghanistan. The Bank finalized the scope and components of the FSSP after thorough
        analysis of the existing literature and numerous consultations with donors.

(b) Assessment of the Project Design

    23. Project activities supported the achievement of the PDO. Project preparation benefitted
        from collaboration between the Bank and IFC teams and identified correctly what needed
        to be done. However, the project design was ambitious and did not forecast the worsening
        security environment in Afghanistan. The delivery model that was chosen focused more
        on use of individual consultants, which in hindsight was not suited for the rising insecurity
        in Afghanistan6. Project Concept Review and Decision Meetings confirmed that not only
        did financial sector reforms remain a major challenge, but that the resources available for
        the project were also not adequate to achieve the proposed targets, given the country

6
  At project design, the team chose to rely on individual consultants embedded in DAB rather than firms, as recent
experience at DAB had shown that little capacity transfer was happening when relying on firms. It should also be
highlighted that when the World Bank re-engaged in Afghanistan, the security situation was relatively stable. Security
started to worsen in 2007/2008 at the time of project design.


                                                          7
         context. The Bank team was advised to take into account lessons learned from USAID and
         from other donors’ experiences in Afghanistan. In this regard, the team held discussions
         with USAID, IMF, and the Department for International Development (DFID), among
         other donors, on the proposed project components.

(c) Adequacy of Government Commitment

    24. The Government showed strong commitment to the financial sector reforms from the outset
        as evidenced from its policy papers and the priority the Governor of DAB gave to the
        project. The Government was fully involved and committed to project objectives and
        activities at appraisal. However, the project approach of building capacity of DAB through
        the contributions of individual international consultants was not effective due to challenges
        in recruiting suitable expatriate expertise in a challenging security environment7.
        Procurement delays and failures in the procurement process of the IT firm and the contract
        for establishing the PCR slowed the pace of implementation.

         The Kabul Bank crisis in September 2010 was another major blow to the perceived
         progress in financial sector development in Afghanistan. Its resolution became the main
         priority of the Afghan authorities (Ministry of Finance and DAB) in 2011. DAB was
         particularly affected by the Kabul Bank crisis which highlighted weaknesses in banking
         supervision and in the overall governance of DAB and the Afghan financial sector.
         Subsequently, at the request of the Afghan Parliament, the Governor of DAB named the
         list of Kabul Bank defaulters and then fled to the United States in June 2011. A new
         Governor was appointed, after several months, in November 2011.


(d) Assessment of Risks

    25. A number of risks at the country/sector/project level were identified during preparation and
        their mitigation was discussed with the DAB. Major potential risks were at the sector and
        project level relating to the sustainability of the project outcomes. These include:
             Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (ML/FT) fueled by the opium
                economy. The existence of the opium economy and an increasing amount of
                government corruption in an environment of a weak anti-money laundering regime
                at DAB and at the commercial banks, and the lack of investigative techniques and
                measures raised a high possibility of the occurrence of Money Laundering and
                Financing of Terrorism. While this risk required a significant drive from GoA and
                collaboration with the international community to bring it down, DAB had already
                set up a Financial Intelligence Unit to monitor and record any suspicious
                transactions. The creation of the PCR and CR would also allow the banks to build
                a verifiable data set of individuals and their transactions which could be used as

7
  In the increasingly insecure environment, it proved extremely difficult for DAB to hire qualified individual
consultants, because under such contracts, the consultants are responsible for their own security. Under such
circumstances, it is generally more effective to hire firms with experience in conflict-affected countries who can afford
to provide security for their employees.


                                                           8
           part of the wider Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of
           Terrorism (AML/CFT) efforts.
          Lack of a timely Legal Framework for a PCR. If a new law were to be required
           for the operation of a PCR, the slow pace at which laws are developed in
           Afghanistan would also slow down the start of operations of the PCR. When IFC
           conducted an assessment of the existing laws, it found out that a new law was not
           necessary but that the DAB could adopt its existing rules or regulations to allow for
           operations of a PCR. It was agreed that this requirement would be included in the
           Financing Agreement as a condition for disbursement for this component.

          Lack of Legal Framework for Collateral Registry. There was a risk that the
           Secured Transactions Law (STL) would not be approved by the National Assembly
           in time to allow for operationalizing the CR. The mitigating factor was that the
           Lower House had approved the law in March 2009 (before Project Negotiations)
           and there was no precedent where the Upper House turned down a law approved
           by the Lower House. To be safer, DAB agreed to include the adoption of
           appropriate legislation enabling the creation of a CR as a disbursement condition
           in order to have leverage for pushing for timely enactment of the law.

          Weak Implementation Capacity in DAB. It was acknowledged that DAB had
           never implemented a donor-funded project itself, and that the USAID had hired
           Bearing Point to implement its project. The mitigating factor for this risk was that
           a Project Implementation Cell (PIC) had been set up well in advance of the start of
           implementation, its members were briefed on their respective roles and
           responsibilities, and their capacity would be further strengthened through the
           assistance provide by international consultants. The PIC was supposed to be under
           the oversight of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by the Governor or
           the First Deputy Governor. The PSC was expected to regularly review the progress
           of the project and provide policy advice and guidance to the PIC to ensure the
           project was implemented smoothly.

          Lack of Coordination between IFC and IDA. There was a risk that lack of
           coordination between the IDA and IFC teams would slow down project
           implementation. This risk was identified and discussed between the two teams
           earlier on during preparation and it was agreed that the legal agreements would be
           structured in such a manner to ensure smooth implementation. It was also agreed
           that IFC and IDA teams would carry out joint implementation support missions
           twice every year.

2.2. Implementation

26. Project implementation started off smoothly in June 2009 with the Project Director (PD),
    the PIC, and the Project Steering Committee (PSC) already in place. Prior to project
    effectiveness, the PD and the head of the procurement department at DAB were sent for
    training in World Bank procurement in Hyderabad, India.


                                             9
27. Five months into implementation, there were early signs that there were going to be
    implementation delays on account of failure to attract good quality consultants on three out
    of the first six consultant assignments advertised, which eventually had to be re-advertised.
    This problem continued to be a recurrent feature throughout the life of the project. By the
    Mid-term Review in March 2013, the project had only two major achievements: (i)
    establishment of the Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF); and (ii) launch
    of the Collateral Registry. The contract for the PCR had just been signed in February 2013
    and total disbursements from the Grant amounted to about US$2 million (20 percent of the
    total Grant amount).

28. There were two main factors that affected the pace of implementation. They were: (i) DAB
    was implementing a World Bank project for the first time and the expected implementation
    support from international consultants was delayed, which resulted in slow initial
    implementation progress; and (ii) difficulty in attracting qualified individual international
    consultants (both individual and firms) to a deteriorating security environment.

29. While DAB was enthusiastic about the project, DAB was implementing a World Bank
    project for the first time and did not have adequate internal capacity. It took 18 months
    after the project became effective to hire the proposed international consultants to support
    and mentor the DAB staff assigned to the PIC. There also were financial management
    issues that persisted until an international financial management expert was hired. The
    design of the project appears to have been optimistic about the time the PIC staff would
    take to fully understand the World Bank implementation guidelines and procedures.

30. The problems with attracting qualified individual international consultants were
    recognized at an early stage but once – in early 2011 – three international consultants were
    in place, there was hope implementation progress would be accelerated. In addition,
    considering the procurement delays encountered by the project, it was decided to focus on
    three major activities: the implementation of the movable collateral registry (CR), the
    implementation of the public credit registry (PCR) and re-launching the procurement of
    the IT Consultancy firm. The project faced another procurement set back with the first bids
    for the PCR assessed as non-compliant. The procurement process therefore had to be re-
    launched. It was decided to undertake the MTR after the procurement of the PCR had been
    completed – which delayed the MTR till early 2013.

31. Mid-term Review (MTR). A MTR was carried out in March 2013 for this project. By that
    time, after three and a half years of project implementation, the FSSP had disbursed only
    20 percent of total Grant proceeds of US$8 million. The project’s implementation progress
    and disbursements were very slow due to an ambitious project design (considering the
    weak capacity environment), delays in procurement, and an unsuitable implementation
    approach (in a deteriorating security environment) of relying on individual international
    experts to support and train the PIC staff, and to implement some activities in Component
    1 (building the capacity of DAB in accounting, auditing, HR Management, and off-site
    supervision). Based on the recommendations of the MTR, the ratings of both progress
    toward achievement of PDO and implementation progress were downgraded from
    “Moderately Unsatisfactory” to “Unsatisfactory” (Ref: Implementation Status and Results

                                             10
   Report (ISR), Seq. #7). The MTR noted that it was highly unlikely that the project would
   achieve its development objectives. It recommended restructuring the project and focusing
   on key activities in order to increase effectiveness and impact. The restructuring was
   supposed to have been completed by June 2013 (Ref: ISR Seq. #6) but the process for the
   overall restructuring (FSSP and FSRRP) was approved in August 2013 (Ref: Management
   Letter sent to Ministry of Finance and DAB on September 1st, 2013). As indicated earlier,
   as part of the restructuring, the undisbursed balance of the FSSP was to be cancelled and
   selected activities were to be transferred to FSRRP through an additional financing.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32. M&E Design: There were repeated comments during the design and appraisal phases, at
    the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) and Decision Meeting, about the inadequacy of
    the proposed Monitoring and Evaluation framework. As it turned out, the performance
    indicators used to measure achievement of the PDO were not adequate, a fact that was
    again highlighted during the Mid-term Review. The first PDO indicator required the
    commercial banks to grade the performance of DAB’s core functions of banking
    supervision and regulation. This created an inherent conflict of interest for the commercial
    banks since they were being regulated by DAB and therefore could not be relied upon to
    be independent in their assessment. It is conceivable that commercial banks may prefer a
    more lenient central bank than a central bank that firmly enforces laws and regulations.
    The second PDO indicator used a “Getting Credit” ranking from the World Bank’s Doing
    Business Report to measure improvements in credit information sharing and legal rights of
    borrowers and lenders. However, this ranking depends on comparisons of performance
    across countries and does not measure absolute achievements in just one country. Absolute
    rankings (versus the overall comparative ranking) included within the Getting Credit
    indicator could have been used instead.

33. For the Intermediate Results Indicators, six indicators were identified of which five were
    quantifiable and could be measured directly from the outputs of the various projects
    activities. The sixth indicator was qualitative because it measured whether DAB’s financial
    statements were “Qualified” or “Unqualified” by the external auditors.

34. M&E Implementation and Utilization: The Monitoring and Evaluation function was the
    responsibility of the PIC at DAB. The data for the first PDO indicator was supposed to be
    collected by the Afghanistan Bankers Association (ABA) using a bi-annual survey of
    commercial banks, and evaluated by the DAB Supreme Council. However, the survey of
    commercial banks was conducted once in 2010 after which no survey was carried out
    because of the Kabul Bank crisis (following the crisis, it appeared ill-advised to ask
    commercial banks to comment on banking supervision). Data for all the other indictors was
    to be collected by the PIC using annual and semi-annual reports prepared by the various
    project beneficiaries and the project’s external auditors.

35. The implementation of the FSSP was monitored in accordance with the M&E plan during
    the initial year of the project. However, because of the slow pace of implementation of
    most activities thereafter, there was little or no data generated in the subsequent years that

                                             11
   would be used to measure progress of implementation and progress towards achievement
   of the PDO. The bi-annual survey of commercial banks was carried out only once—in
   April 2010—and was never carried out again after the Kabul Bank crisis in September
   2010. The performance of the PCR could not be monitored because the contract for its
   establishment got delayed and was signed at the time of the MTR. The PCR was launched
   in December 2013, and by that time the Government had already requested that the
   remaining Grant proceeds be cancelled and that the contracts for the remaining activities
   under this sub-component be moved to the FSRRP in preparation for the closing of the
   FSSP, as per the agreed restructuring. Establishment of the CR and the AIBF are the only
   two activities where results were achieved during implementation and where progress was
   monitored regularly.

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36. Safeguards. The FSSP was rated as a Category C project. According to the project
    appraisal document, the Project did not fund any activity with potential direct impact on
    local environmental and social aspects. Therefore the project was not envisaged to trigger
    either environmental (OP 4.01) or social (OP 4.12) safeguards. The FSSP was an
    Emergency Technical Assistance operation just to help support financial sector reforms so
    as to increase the availability of financial services in Afghanistan in an efficient and
    effective manner based on an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for both
    consumers and lenders to enforce their rights.

37. Procurement. The assessment of Procurement Risk at Appraisal was rated as “High” due
    to a lack of adequate procurement experience by the DAB staff, lack of a procurement
    expert in Government, and limited capacity in the private sector. To mitigate the risk, it
    was agreed that Bank staff would carry out an intensive but narrowly focused procurement
    training program for DAB staff both in English and Dari, and that the staff of the Director
    General (Services & Constructions, in charge of DAB procurement) would attend training
    programs conducted by the Procurement Policy Unit (PPU) of the Ministry of Finance
    (MoF). In addition, the government’s central procurement facilitation unit, the Afghanistan
    Reconstruction and Development Services (ARDS-PU), would support DAB for large
    value procurement following National Competitive Bidding/International Competitive
    Bidding (NCB/ICB) procedures.

38. There were procurement problems from the outset with failure to attract well qualified
    individual international consultants in the Afghanistan environment of rising insecurity.
    This also impacted the performance of the PIC since the staff members were unfamiliar
    with Bank procedures and had been expected to be supported by the international
    consultants. Procurement was continuously downgraded from “Satisfactory” at project
    effectiveness to “Moderately Satisfactory” and then to “Moderately Unsatisfactory” by
    June 2011 due to the delays in getting a qualified IT consultant and in procuring the
    equipment (software and hardware) for the PCR. It was eventually upgraded to
    “Satisfactory” following the staffing of the PIC with international and national
    procurement specialists, and the finalizing of the contract for an IT consultancy firm. It
    continued to be rated “Satisfactory” up to project closing.

                                            12
    39. The “Satisfactory” rating does not seem justified in light of the multiple rounds of tendering
        that were needed to get qualified consultants for the various activities, which led to lengthy
        delays throughout project implementation (the project team considered that these
        procurement difficulties were beyond the control of DAB procurement staff). The
        unsatisfactory performance of the chosen IT consultancy firm at DAB led to the decision
        during the MTR to suspend the automation of off-site supervision, which had been a major
        ticket item of the project. The main issue in this regard was that after unsuccessful attempts
        to attract a qualified individual consultant with banking supervision expertise, the scope of
        work of the IT consultancy firm was expanded to include banking supervision expertise.
        However, the IT firm adopted a purely IT-driven (rather than business-need driven)
        approach and focused on automating existing systems without assessing whether existing
        systems needed to be first improved and then automated. This experience confirmed that
        attracting qualified consultants (individual and firms) is extremely challenging in
        Afghanistan.

    40. Financial Management. The overall Financial Management (FM) risk for the FSSP was
        rated “High” during appraisal, and as a mitigation measure it was agreed to minimize use
        of the Designated Account (DA) (it had a ceiling of US$400,000), to maximize direct
        payments (amounts exceeding US$80,000) to contractors and consultants, and to hire
        international consultants to support the PIC in its fiduciary responsibilities. However, the
        project became effective without both an international FM Consultant at the PIC and an
        FM manual. The FM rating was quickly downgraded to “Moderately Unsatisfactory”.
        While these shortcomings were addressed and the FM rating had been upgraded to
        “Satisfactory” by June 2012, it was again downgraded to “Moderately Unsatisfactory” in
        February 2013 due to weaknesses identified in the capacity of FM (there were
        shortcomings in the IFRs and the project did not have a quick-book accounting system
        which required purchase of some software). At the time the project closed, most of these
        weaknesses had been rectified and the final FM rating was “Moderately Satisfactory”.


    2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

    41. The MTR of March 2013 concluded that with the current design and rate of implementation
        of the FSSP, it was highly unlikely that the project would achieve its development
        objectives; and that a restructuring was required. The agreed restructuring involved the
        following: to cancel the undisbursed Grant proceeds of SDR4 million, to close the FSSP at
        the scheduled closing date, and to transfer critical outstanding activities to the FSRRP. The
        restructuring of the FSSP was finalized in February 2014. The critical outstanding activities
        of the FSSP8 were moved to the FSRRP under an Additional Financing (AF) arrangement



8
  The selected activities to be covered under the FSRRP Additional Financing include: (i) targeted activities to
strengthen DAB’s capacity based on lessons from the implementation of the FSSP; (ii) development of the financial
sector infrastructure; and (iii) technical assistance and training for project implementation, including technical
assistance for the PCR and CR.

                                                       13
   in the amount of SDR4.4 million (equivalent to US$6.7 million). The implementation of
   FSRRP and its Additional Financing is progressing slowly but satisfactorily.


3. Assessment of Outcomes


3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

42. Relevance of Objectives. The relevance of objectives is rated as “High”. The Project
    Development Objective of the FSSP was to help DAB improve its core functions of
    banking supervision and regulation, and to help improve access to formal banking services
    by establishing key initial building blocks for further financial sector reform. The project
    was prepared in a conflict-affected emergency environment and the PDO was consistent
    with the Government priority to rebuild the financial sector as outlined in the Afghan
    Compact (2006), the EEC Road Map (2007) and the ANDS 2008-2013. The Government
    was cognizant of the fact that lack of finance was one of the main challenges to economic
    development, and that a properly functioning financial sector was necessary to support
    private-sector development. The financial sector, which had been destroyed during the 30
    years of conflict, needed proper supervision and new financial infrastructure (such as the
    PCR and CR) to facilitate increased access to financial services. Since a number of private
    banks had entered the Afghanistan financial sector between 2003 and 2008, it was
    imperative that the capacity of the DAB to supervise and regulate the sector required
    strengthening so as to minimize potential systemic risks. Moreover, the financial sector
    also faced the risk of being used as a conduit for the channeling and laundering of illegal
    funds from the opium economy, and for financing of terrorists and insurgent activities. The
    project thus served as an important entry point for a sustainable engagement for broader
    financial sector reforms that would lead to increased access to financial services across the
    country and ensure stability in the sector.

43. Relevance of Design. The design of the Project is rated “Modest”. While the PDO was in
    line with the financial sector policy reforms that the government was committed to and that
    were reinforced by the donors, the project design (especially Component One) proved over-
    ambitious considering the weak capacity environment. In addition, with a deteriorating
    security environment, attracting qualified international individual consultants – as per the
    project design – proved increasingly difficult. The results framework was also not
    comprehensive or robust enough to measure the performance of both the PDO and
    intermediate outcomes. At the technical level, the project correctly identified the priorities
    for financial sector strengthening. However, the proposed implementation mechanism was
    no longer appropriate in a deteriorating security environment.




                                             14
44. Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of Project Implementation is rated “Low”.
    The Project ran into implementation delays within the first six months of implementation
    due to the failure to attract well-qualified individual consultants willing to work in the
    insecure Afghanistan environment. Having identified the problem, the team did not
    proactively take measures at an early stage to change the project design in a manner that
    could better suit the Afghan environment. As such, procurement was continuously
    downgraded from “Satisfactory” at Project effectiveness to “Moderately Satisfactory” and
    then to “Moderately Unsatisfactory” by June 2011 due to the delays in getting a qualified
    IT consultant for Component One and in procuring equipment for the PCR. Because of the
    slow pace of implementation, the Project was only able to disburse 29 percent of the
    proceeds in four and a half years of implementation. The Results Framework for the project
    was also inadequate and should have been another driver to undertake restructuring earlier
    in the project. For example, following the Kabul Bank crisis, the authorities realized that
    asking for the opinion of commercial banks on the quality of banking supervision at DAB
    was ill-advised. A new PDO indicator should have been introduced at this point to measure
    the achievements under Component One, which would have required a restructuring.

3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives

45. The project did not achieve most of its stated objectives. The indicators used to measure
    the achievements were either not adequate and/or not monitored over the life of the project.
    The first PDO indicator which was supposed to be based on annual surveys of commercial
    banks’ perception of DAB’s performance on its core functions was not monitored, and only
    one survey was carried out (in 2010) throughout the life of the project. As already indicated,
    this indicator was not appropriate as the authorities came to realize after the Kabul Bank
    crisis. The second PDO indicator, which was supposed to measure improved access to
    financial services, was a poor choice because it was based on a comparison between
    Afghanistan and other countries rather than on the absolute improvement in the country
    itself. With regard to intermediate outcomes, the achievements were negligible, as
    explained below.

46. Component One: Strengthening the capacity of DAB. This component was supposed to
    involve the setting up of IT systems to help in automation of off-site supervision and
    automation of human resources. It took a long time to obtain a suitable consultant for
    assessing the IT requirements, design, implementation and supervision of IT installations
    (the first procurement process failed when the selected firm turned down the offer due to
    security concerns), and the consultancy firm that was eventually procured did not provide
    quality output on technical specifications for the required IT systems to automate off-site
    supervision. The firm’s output was rejected by the authorities and the activity for
    automation of off-site supervision at DAB was suspended.

47. With regard to the establishment of an effective human resource management (HRM)
    system at DAB, a consultant was hired who developed ten human resource policies and
    conducted initial training, but the consultant cancelled his contract before its term ended.
    The automation of HRM did not take place within the project lifetime. The IT firm
    concluded that a new information system for HRM was not necessary. Instead, the firm

                                             15
   recommended the installation of a missing module (the attendance module) and
   customizing the Human Resource Management system in the existing Core Banking
   Solution (CBS) of DAB. This recommendation was not implemented during the lifetime
   of the project and was transferred to FSRRP.

48. Component Two: Development of basic infrastructure in the financial sector. This
    component was focused on establishing: (i) a PCR that would provide lenders with
    information for effective risk assessment on borrowers; (ii) a CR for movable property that
    would enable lenders to effectively use borrowers’ property as collateral; and (iii) the
    Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF) to support development of
    professional human resources for the financial sector. The implementation of both PCR
    and CR was supported by IFC Technical Assistance in the areas of legal framework, vendor
    selection, and a public awareness program, and IDA provided the physical development of
    necessary IT systems and training of staff to operate the systems.

49. The CR was launched in February 2013 just before the Mid-term Review, and by December
    2013 it had 1700 items of collateral registered, compared to an end-project target of 2000.
    This was one of the few successful activities under the project. The procurement of PCR
    software and hardware experienced long delays (the first bids were declared non-
    compliant). The contract was signed in February 2013, and the PCR was launched formally
    in December 2013 at around the time the Government requested for cancellation of the
    Grant as part of the agreed restructuring. However, the most recent data shows that by
    March 2015, 1,370 credit reports had been sent by the PCR to commercial banks. Some
    uncompleted activities related to the operation of the PCR were transferred to the FSRRP.
    The establishment of the AIBF was also one of the few activities that was implemented in
    a timely manner and it became operational in November 2010. By December 2013, about
    3,000 staff of commercial banks and Micro Finance Institutions (MFI) had been trained at
    the institute and it was continuing to expand its activities with the support of various
    development partners. Unfortunately, the AIBF is currently facing institutional difficulties
    following major staff changes in 2014.

3.3. Efficiency

50. At appraisal, due to the nature of the project, it became difficult to quantify the economic
    and financial benefits of the project, which in turn made it difficult to carry out a proper
    ‘Cost-Benefit Analysis’. The team instead carried out, with DAB Management, a “business
    benefits” review of the investments in four areas, including: (i) internal process efficiency;
    (ii) benefits to internal and external clients; (iii) benefits for compliance, regulatory and
    control framework; and (iv) work process and manpower efficiency (Annex #9 PAD). The
    ICR, following the appraisal approach, listed the “business benefits “of achieved activities
    under Component 2 (establishment of Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance
    (AIBF), the Public Credit Registry and the Collateral Registry). There were virtually no
    benefits under Component 1 since none of the activities were completed. The results of
    Component 2 were more positive, with the establishment of the CR, PCR and AIBF, with
    continuous support under FSRRP. Efficiency for the project is rated as “Unsatisfactory”.



                                             16
    3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: “Unsatisfactory”

    51. The following summarizes the overall outcome ratings based on Relevance, Achievements,
        and Efficiency.

        The overall outcome rating is “Unsatisfactory”. While the relevance of the project
        objectives was ”High” in light of the urgent needs of the Afghanistan financial sector at
        the time, the relevance of the design was “Modest” because the designed proved over-
        ambitious and vulnerable to a deteriorating security environment and because it had a weak
        results framework. Given the implementation delays faced within the first eighteen months
        of the project, the Bank task team failed to address these design weaknesses through a
        timely project restructuring, and this negatively impacted the pace of implementation.
        There were minimal achievements under Component One which accounted for 71 percent
        of the project proceeds. Efficacy is rated “Unsatisfactory” because the first PDO indicator
        was not suitable and was never measured consistently, the second PDO indicator does not
        measure per se increase in access to finance (it measures the strength of credit reporting
        systems and the effectiveness of collateral and bankruptcy laws in facilitating lending), and
        both indicators9 should have been changed during implementation. In addition, four out of
        the six intermediate indicators were not met. Efficiency is rated “Unsatisfactory” as the
        beneficiaries under Component One did not receive any tangible benefits and the PCR was
        launched just before the Grant proceeds were cancelled.


    3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

    52. While poverty and social development were not applicable, gender impact was proposed
        in the PAD as follows: “The FSS Project will therefore finance an HR adviser to advise
        and develop a set of new HR policies as set out above and assist in their implementation
        for HR reform in DAB which would include ‘Gender Mainstreaming’” (Ref: PAD, page
        28). While a harassment general and sexual harassment policies were prepared by a
        consultant, there is no indication that these policies were implemented.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

    53. The Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF) was established and has
        provided training to over 3,000 staff from commercial banks and microfinance institutions.

9
  The indicator Getting Credit (which measures the strength of credit reporting systems and the effectiveness of
collateral and bankruptcy laws in facilitating lending) may have been relevant for the project, but the M&E
framework should not have tracked the overall ranking of Afghanistan – which is impacted by the performance of
other countries.


                                                        17
      IDA and IFC collaborated in the establishment of the CR and PCR and the two registries
      were launched in February 2013 and December 2013 respectively and are fully operational.
      The Public Credit Registry collects information from creditors and available public sources
      on a borrower’s credit history. The Registry compiles information on individuals and/or
      small firms, such as information on credit repayment records, court judgments, and
      bankruptcies, and then creates a comprehensive credit report that is sold to creditors. The
      moveable Collateral Registry registers notices of securing charges in movable assets as
      collateral for loans or other financing, and notices of lien in all types of movable assets.
      This registry, which facilitates securing debt and creating contracts using movable
      property, in particular facilitates access to finance for small and medium enterprises. By
      December 2014, a total of 3,687 items of collateral had been registered in the CR and the
      PCR had issued 471 reports (and 1,370 reports by March 2015).


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

   54. None

   3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

   55. Not Applicable


   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

   Rating: Substantial

   56. The PAD had identified five potential risks that the project faced, although some of these
       risks were not rated. The risks included: i) increases in money laundering; ii) increases in
       terrorist financing; iii) the failure to put in place a legal framework for a PCR and CR in a
       timely manner; iv) weak implementation capacity in DAB; and v) lack of coordination
       between IFC and IDA. The money laundering and terrorist financing risks were
       considered ”High” because of the opium economy with a high degree of smuggling and
       trafficking, the integration of the informal financial “Hawaladar” network into the formal
       financial networks of neighboring countries, the weak anti-money laundering regime in
       place in DAB and the commercial banks, and the lack of investigatory techniques and
       measures.

   57. While the capacity building activities, specifically the automation of off-site supervision,
       at DAB were not completed under the FSSP, some of them have been transferred to the
       FSRRP, which should help augment capacity at DAB in the coming years. An increase in
       DAB’s capacity to regulate the financial sector is critical for its enforcement of anti-money
       laundering activities. The collaboration between IDA and IFC in the establishment of the
       CR and PCR worked well, because these two systems are fully operational and capacity to
       operate them has already been created within DAB. However, there is a risk that a change
       in the Director of the CR and PCR at DAB could affect the operation of the two registries.

                                                18
       The AIBF, which had been established and was working well until 2013, has run into
       institutional difficulties following a major change in its staff in 2014.

   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

   5.1. Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: “Moderately Unsatisfactory”

   58. The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was “Moderately Unsatisfactory”.
       The project team undertook significant analysis of the Afghanistan financial sector in order
       to choose the components to include in the project. It used various reports prepared by the
       Bank (Financial Sector Study 2004) and the Government (EEC Road Map 2007, ANDS
       2008-2013, and DAB Strategic Plan 2008-2013) to ensure that the project objectives were
       aligned with the Government’s vision for the sector. The team also held consultations with
       other donors operating in the sector, notably USAID and the IMF, about the relevant entry
       points for supporting the government reforms in the sector.

   59. The design of the project, however, was overly ambitious, given the limited capacity, and
       its delivery model became vulnerable to a deteriorating security environment. The choice
       of a capacity building approach that relied on international individual consultants was no
       longer appropriate with rising insecurity. The design also did not have a robust Monitoring
       and Evaluation system, and the PDO-level indicators chosen were not suitable to measure
       achievement of development objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

   60. The composition of the Bank Team varied over the life of the project and was comprised
       of financial sector development specialists (Lead and Senior), senior private sector
       development specialists, financial management specialists, procurement specialists, legal
       counsel from the Bank, and a Principal Financial Specialist from IFC. There were two Task
       Team Leaders (TTL) during the implementation phase of the project, both based in Kabul,
       with the change in TTLs occurring in early 2011. Implementation progress was
       documented by the Bank team in Aide Memoires after supervision missions and in ISRs
       every 6 months (and on some occasions every 12 months). These helped provide Bank
       management with updates on implementation progress and have also provided background
       for preparing the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR).

   61. The problem of delayed procurements continued to slow down the pace of implementation.
       In the case of the critically important consultancy position for the IT systems for DAB,
       which was responsible for implementing about 60 percent of the project, it took more than
       two years to be put in place. The team responded to the delays by downgrading the

                                               19
      implementation progress (IP) to “Moderately Unsatisfactory”. However, there were no
      immediate proactive steps taken to address the underlying problem of difficulties in
      attracting qualified individual consultants to the project. A restructuring would have been
      advisable by mid-2011, two years after the start of what was now a slow implementation,
      in order to change course and use a different implementation approach. This would also
      have been a suitable time to revise the M&E framework and introduce appropriate
      performance indicators.

   62. The Mid-term Review (MTR) had originally been scheduled for September 1, 2012, but it
       did not take place until late February 2013, when it was apparent that the project was not
       on track to meet its development objectives, with only 20 percent of project proceeds
       disbursed. The decision of the MTR mission to restructure the project, and then the
       subsequent decision to cancel the project and transfer the funds and a limited number of
       key activities into the FSRRP, although occurring late in the process, were the correct
       decisions under the circumstances.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: “Moderately Unsatisfactory”

   63. Overall Bank performance is rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory” on account of the
       weaknesses in the design and implementation phases noted above. While the project was
       responding to an urgent and visible need from the Government, and while the initial design
       was grounded in sound analysis of the Afghanistan financial sector, the method of
       implementation chosen did not adequately take into account the Afghan political, security,
       and economic environments. When implementation began and faced significant delays, the
       team took too long to suggest the necessary changes that would be required if the project
       were to meet its development objectives.

   5.2. Government Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: “Moderately Satisfactory”

   64. Government Performance is rated as “Moderately Satisfactory”. The Government showed
       full commitment to the reform of the financial sector during the preparation of the project
       and shared with the Bank team its vision for the sector, as articulated in its various
       documents that are mentioned before in this ICR. However, during implementation, the
       focus of the Government shifted to the resolution of the Kabul Bank crisis, due to its impact
       on the financial sector and, more broadly, on the dialogue between the Afghan authorities
       and the international community.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                                20
Rating: “Moderately Unsatisfactory”

   65. The implementing agency was the DAB, and a Project Implementation Cell (PIC)
       comprising all relevant heads of departments in DAB was set up to manage the day-to-day
       activities of the project. The idea was to create project implementation capacity within
       DAB and more project ownership, unlike the USAID-funded Bearing Point model where
       implementation responsibility was with the Bearing Point team. While the PIC had the full
       support of the Governor and management of DAB, a risk that was identified during design
       was that the staff had no experience in implementing a donor-funded project. The focal
       point staff in each DAB department involved in the project was supposed to be partnered
       with expatriate consultants for capacity building, and the plan was that over time, the local
       staff would take charge of project implementation. As it turned out, with a deteriorating
       security environment, it was very difficult to attract well-qualified international staff to
       Afghanistan. There was also supposed to be a Project Steering Committee (PSC), chaired
       by the Governor or First Deputy Governor, acting as the supreme body to monitor and
       make key management decisions for effective implementation of the project.

   66. DAB started with some degree of initiative by hiring the Project Director (head of the PIC)
       before the project became effective and sending him, together with the head of the
       procurement department, to India for World Bank procurement training. However, project
       implementation started before the PIC was fully constituted. The international consultants
       who were supposed to mentor the focal point staff in the DAB departments were not in
       place and it took more than 18 months for the international procurement and financial
       management consultants to join the PIC. This limited capacity at the PIC, and the rising
       insecurity, resulted in long implementation delays because of the inability to hire qualified
       consultants.

   67. The PSC was instrumental in addressing the initial problems encountered in the
       establishment of the AIBF. However, the difficulties affecting the implementation of
       Component One (strengthening the capacity of DAB) were beyond the control of the PSC.
       The minimal achievements under Component One largely contributed to the outcome of
       the project being rated as “Unsatisfactory”.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower performance

Rating: “Moderately Unsatisfactory”

   68. Overall Borrower performance is rated as “Moderately Unsatisfactory”. While the
       Government showed commitment to the project in the early stages of design and
       implementation, the Implementing Agency had difficulties implementing the project, due
       design shortcomings and unsuccessful procurement processes, linked to a deteriorating
       security environment.




                                                21
   6. Lessons Learned

   69. In a conflict-afflicted environment, the Project Team should review the general
       constraints to implementation faced by ongoing projects in the country’s Bank
       Portfolio to better understand the operating environment. Because this was the first
       Bank project being implemented by the DAB, it was bound to face capacity constraints.
       However, while there were almost two dozen projects in the Bank’s portfolio in
       Afghanistan’s other sectors in 2008 (with the oldest project approved in 2003), the design
       of the FSSP did not seem to have taken into account the systemic constraints faced by Bank
       projects in Afghanistan that could have led the team to incorporate some mitigating
       measures in the design. For example, there were seven projects that were at least two years
       old but that had minimal or zero disbursements, which could have raised a red flag on the
       adequacy of project design and readiness for implementation of the FSSP.

   70. Attracting good quality individual international consultants in a conflict environment
       is a major constraint to implementation. This is related to the lesson described above on
       the operating environment. The project team correctly identified the weak implementation
       capacity in DAB and the need as a mitigating measure to hire international consultants to
       train/mentor focal point staff with DAB departments and support the activities of the PIC
       (such as financial management and procurement). However, nowhere in the PAD is it
       acknowledged or mentioned that there could be a problem attracting those consultants to
       Afghanistan, as the possibility of a significant deterioration in the security environment
       was not considered.

   71. Corrective actions need to be taken earlier on in the implementation phase if
       Implementation Progress (IP) is consistently “Not Satisfactory”. The delay in taking
       corrective actions can lead to loss of resources and time as seen in this project where a
       number of contracts had to be advertised at least twice. The major corrective action in the
       FSSP should have been taken by the second year of implementation rather than at the Mid-
       term Review, which was three and a half years after project effectiveness. As can be seen
       in this case, the delay in revising the monitoring and evaluation framework made it difficult
       to evaluate the achievements of the project.


   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies Comments

   72. The Borrower received and reviewed a draft of the ICR in which the performance of the
       Implementing Agency had been rated as Unsatisfactory. The Borrower suggested, with
       some justification, that the performance of the Implementing Agency should be rated as
       Moderately Unsatisfactory. After internal discussions and consideration, the team agreed
       to the Moderately Unsatisfactory rating.

(b) Cofinanciers


                                                22
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                      23
                              Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Category in XDR

         Category               Category Description                     Amount           Amount              %
                                                                         Allocated       Disbursed         Disbursed
               1       Goods, Consultants’ Services, and                   3,870,000          951,947.51             24.6
                       Training – Part 1: Component 1
               2       Goods, Consultants’ Services, and                   1,090,000          492,433.22             45.2
                       Training – Part 2A: Public Credit Registry
               3       Goods, Consultants’ Services, and                    310,000            19,891.84              6.4
                       Training – Part 2B: Collateral Registry
               4       Goods, Consultants’ Services, and                    170,000            31,204.51             18.4
                       Training – Part 2C: AIFB
               4       Unallocated                                            60,000             0.00                 0.0
                                           TOTAL                           5,500,000     1,495,477.08                27.2

 (b) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million)

                      Component                       Appraisal       Actual/Latest Of which IDA
                                                      Estimate          Estimate    (at Appraisal)

         1. Strengthening the Capacity of DAB                 5.70               1.46                  5.70

         2. Development of necessary financial               3.6610              1.42                  2.30
         infrastructure
         TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   9.36               2.88                  8.00


(c) Financing (in US$ million)
        Source of Funds                    Type of            Appraisal        Actual/ Latest         Percentage at
                                         Cofinancing          Estimate           Estimate              Appraisal

         IDA                                                      8.00                 2.29                   85.5

         IFC/PEP-MENA                                             0.59                 0.59                   6.3

         Counterpart Funding –                                    0.77                 0.77                   8.2
         DAB, ABA and MISFA



           TOTAL                                                  9.36                 3.65


10
   Includes US$590,000 from IFC for TA for the CR and PCR; and US$770,000 counterpart funding (local funds)
from the Authorities (DAB, ABA and MISFA)


                                                     24
        (d) Project Disbursements—Original Projections Vs Actual Disbursements



Cumulative Disbursements




                                                 25
                                 Annex 2: Outputs by Component


1. The FSSP supported activities for strengthening the capacity of Da Afghanistan Bank
   (DAB) as well as for developing necessary infrastructure in the financial sector, such as
   the Public Credit Registry (PCR), the Collateral Registry (CR), and the Afghanistan
   Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF). Strengthening the DAB was a focus of the GoA
   since the fall of the Taliban regime, and the DAB had previously received assistance from
   the World Bank, USAID, and IMF to strengthen its internal administration and bank
   supervisory (on-site) capacity. While there had been good progress, DAB still had a
   disproportionately weak banking supervision capacity. The GoA also aimed to resolve the
   core constraints to lending to the private sector with a specific focus on establishing and
   enforcing the realization of collateral, and enhancing credit information flow so as to
   identify good and bad customers. The two components under the project and the related
   outcome indicators are outlined below.

2. Component 1: Strengthening the Capacity of Da Afghanistan Bank. The FSSP
   provided support in three critical areas:
              Developing the off-site supervision systems and supervision competencies in DAB;
              Creating effective accounting and internal auditing systems that would function at
               generally acceptable international standards, which was critical operationally and
               for the credibility of DAB as a central bank; and
              Establishing an effective human resources (HR) management system so it could
               move from relying on expatriate advisors to utilizing well-trained and empowered
               Afghan national staff.

3. The following indicators were used to measure progress: (i) decrease in the number of days
   required to process supervisory data collected from the commercial banks; (ii) DAB’s
   financial statements prepared according to International Financial Reporting Standards
   (IFRS) with an “UNQUALIFIED” opinion of external auditor; and (iii) increase in the
   number of training courses implemented on the basis of training needs assessment results.
   By the time the decision was made to cancel the project at the MTR, the status of
   Component One outputs was as follows:

             Planned Activity        Results and Outputs                                               Completion Status

    1.       Strengthening of        Recruitment of a qualified individual consultant with expertise   Activity   was    not
             DAB’s off-site          in banking supervision was unsuccessful. Activities were          completed and will be
             supervisory functions   included in the scope of the IT consultancy firm. The             carried out under the
                                     consultancy firm’s technical specifications for the automation    Additional Financing
                                     of off-site supervision were rejected by the Borrower,            for the FSRRP. The


                                                     26
     Planned Activity        Results and Outputs                                               Completion Status

                             following a technical review from the World Bank. Activity        number     of   days
                             was suspended.                                                    required to process
                                                                                               supervisory data has
                                                                                               not changed.

2.   Strengthening           Accounting:                                                       Activity was
     accounting and              Accounting policies and procedures manual are in             completed.
     internal audit                  place
     capabilities                Budget manual, Part 1 and 2
                                 Financial management manual for the FSSP and
                                     FSRRP
                                 Training for manual implementation

                             Internal audit
                                   Internal audit manual Part 1 (policies and standards)
                                       and Part 2 (audit methodologies)
                                   Internal audit policies
                                   Audit charter
                                   Training and guidance on manuals
                                   Terms of Reference (TOR) for audit committee
                                   Detailed assessment of Comptroller General staff and
                                       on-the-job training of the staff.
3.   Establishment of        Policies were developed and are being implemented on:             Activity was partially
     effective human         performance management; recruitment, selection, and               completed as the
     resource management     appointment; staff training and development; promotion;           automation of HR
                             conflict of interest; harassment in general; sexual harassment;   management was not
                             grievance and reconciliation; corrective and disciplinary         carried out under
                             action; and staff requisition forms.                              FSSP, but will be
                                                                                               carried out under
                                                                                               FSRRP, as per the
                                                                                               recommendations of
                                                                                               the Consultant.
                                                                                               Consultant advised a
                                                                                               new IT system was not
                                                                                               needed but instead a
                                                                                               missing module
                                                                                               (attendance module)
                                                                                               could be installed to
                                                                                               customize the HR
                                                                                               Management system in
                                                                                               the existing Core
                                                                                               Banking System.

4.   Development of an               Assessment of existing IT systems was made               The activity was
     effective information           IT development strategic plan and implementation         partially completed as
     technology system                roadmap were prepared                                    technical specifications
                                     Technical requirements for off-site supervision          for automation of off-

                                             27
              Planned Activity         Results and Outputs                                              Completion Status

                                              Technical requirements for HR systems automation         site supervision were
                                              Technical requirements for automation of audit           rejected by the
                                               department (the actual automation of audit               Borrower and the
                                               department was not covered under the project)            procurement phase for
                                              Technical requirements for automation of foreign         automation of off-site
                                               exchange auction and daily exchange rate (the actual     supervision was
                                               automation of foreign exchange auction and daily         suspended.
                                               exchange rate was not covered under the project)



4. Component 2. Development of Necessary Infrastructure in the Financial Sector. The
   FSSP provided support for:
               Setting up a Public Credit Registry that would provide lenders information for
                efficient risk assessment on borrowers;
               Establishing a Collateral Registry for movable property that would provide lenders
                the ability to effectively use their property as collateral; and
               Developing a bankers’ training institute that could improve professional banking
                and financial sector skills.

5. The following indicators were used to measure progress: (i) increase in the number of credit
   reports sent by the Pubic Credit Registry to commercial banks; (ii) increase in the number
   of items of collateral registered in the Collateral Registry; and (iii) increase in the number
   of commercial banks staff trained at the AIBF. The status of outputs of Component 2 was
   as outlined below.

              Planned Activity          Results and Outputs                                           Completion Status

     1.       Establishment of a PCR           Enabling legislation for operations of a PCR was      Activity was completed
                                                put in place                                          around the time the
                                               Phase 1 of the PCR (establishing production site)     cancellation of the project
                                                was launched in December 2013. The PCR                was proposed. However,
                                                became fully operational in December 2014,            by December 2014, the
                                                once financial institutions had uploaded all the      PCR had sent out 471
                                                required credit information.                          credit      reports      to
                                                                                                      commercial banks.

     2.       Establishment of a CR            Enabling legislation for operations of a CR was       Activity was completed.
                                                put in place                                          By June 2013, the CR had
                                               CR was launched in February 2013 and is fully         1700 items of collateral
                                                operational.                                          registered (against a target
                                                                                                      of 2,000) valued at AFN
                                                                                                      24.8 billion and all

                                                      28
     Planned Activity           Results and Outputs                                         Completion Status

                                                                                            commercial banks had
                                                                                            accounts. By December
                                                                                            2014, the number of
                                                                                            registered items had
                                                                                            increased to 3,000.

3.   Physical Development       AIBF was established in 2010 and is operational, offering   Activity was completed.
     of the Afghanistan         short term and long term courses.                           3,064 staff of commercial
     Institute of Bankers and                                                               banks and microfinance
     Finance (AIBF)                                                                         institutions had been
                                                                                            trained at AIBF by end
                                                                                            June 2014, as against a
                                                                                            target of 500.




                                              29
                      Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis


1. At appraisal, by the nature of the project, it was found difficult to quantify the economic
   and financial benefits of the project and therefore difficult to carry out a proper “Cost-
   Benefit Analysis“. The team instead carried out a “Business Benefits” review with DAB
   management of the investments in four areas, including: (i) internal process efficiency; (ii)
   benefits to internal and external clients; (iii) benefits for compliance, regulatory and control
   framework; and (iv) work process and manpower efficiency (Annex #9, PAD). The ICR
   following the appraisal approach computed “Business Benefits” of achieved activities
   under Component 2 (establishment of Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance
   (AIBF), Public Credit Registry and Collateral Registry). There were virtually no benefits
   under Component 1 since all the activities were not completed. The following activities
   under Component 2 were also not completed and were transferred to the FSRRP: (i)
   support to the establishment of PCR; and (ii) technical assistance and training for the
   implementation of a PCR and a CR.




                                              30
     Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members

Names                      Title                                Unit    Responsibility/Specialty

Lending

Md. Reazul Islam           Senior Private Sector                SASFP   1st Task Team Leader
                           Development Specialist                       (TTL)

Kyoo-Won Oh                Underwriter                          SASFP   Co-TTL

Nagavalli Annamalai        Lead Counsel                         LEGPS   Legal

Kiatchai Sophastienphong   Senior Financial Sector Specialist   SASFP

Shanthi Divakaran          Program officer                      SASFP

Nazir Ahmad                Research Analyst                     SASFP

Richard Nash               Research Analyst                     SASFP

Shah Nur Quayyum           Operations Analyst                   SASFP

Md. Faijul Islam           Information Analyst                  ISGOS

Sheila Braka Musiime       Senior Counsel                       LEGES   Legal

Davis C. Freese            Senior Finance Officer               LOAFC   Disbursements

Mohammad Arif Rasuli       Senior Environmental Specialist      SASDN   Environmental Safeguards

Asta Olesen                Senior Social Development            SASES   Social Safeguards
                           Specialist
Kenneth O. Okpara          Senior Financial Management          SARFM   Financial Management
                           Specialist
Deepal Fernando            Senior procurement Specialist        SARPM   Procurement

Parwana Wawreena           Program Assistant                    SASFP   Administration

Aza A. Rashid              Program Assistant                    SASFP   Administration

Marjorie Espiritu          Program Assistant                    SASFP   Administration

Thomas James Jacobs        Country Officer, Lebanon             IFC     PCR and CR component



                                               31
Names                         Title                                Unit          Responsibility/Specialty

Oscar Maddedu                 Principal Financial Specialist       IFC           PCR and CR component

Mohammad Amin Shoaieb         Program Officer                      IFC           Credit Bureau Program

Murat Sultanov                Operations Officer                   IFC           PCR and CR component

Supervision/ICR

Md. Reazul Islam              Senior Private Sector                SASFP         Task Team Leader
                              Development Specialist
Kyoo-Won Oh                   Underwriter                          SASFP         Co-TTL

Richard George Andrew         Counsel                              LEG           Legal
Nash
Kenneth O. Okpara             Senior Financial Management          SARFM         Financial Management
                              Specialist
Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS         Procurement

Parwana Wawreena Nasiri       Program Assistant                    SASFP         Administration

Shamsuddin Ahmad              Senior Financial Sector Specialist   FPDPO

Shah Nur Quayyum              Financial Sector Specialist          SASFP

Abdel Qadeer Jawad            E T Consultant                       SASFP

Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin   Senior Private Sector                SASFP         2nd Task Team Leader
                              Development Specialist
Nazir Ahmad                   Research Analyst                     SASFP

Ann Christine Rennie          Lead Financial Sector Specialist     SASFP

Asha Narayan                  Financial management Specialist      SARFM         Financial Management

Murat Sultanov                Operations Officer                   IFC (CMEAF)   PCR and CR Component

Asif Ali                      Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS         Procurement

Oscar Maddedu                 Principal Financial Specialist       IFC (CAIFI)   PCR and CR Component

Aza A. Rashid                 Program Assistant                    SASFP         Administration

Rahimullah Wardak             Procurement Specialist               SARPS         Procurement

Zohra Farooq                  Financial Management Specialist      SARFM         Financial Management

John P. Byamukama             Financial Analyst                    GFMDR         ICR TTL


                                                   32
 Names                       Title                              Unit           Responsibility/Specialty

 Samson Omodele Idahosa      E T Consultant                     SARPS          Procurement

 Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein   Senior Financial Management        SARFM          Financial Management
 El-Shorbagi                 Specialist
 Shiori Onishi               Consultant                         GFMDR

 Bassim Ahmed Sharafeldin    Operations Officer                 GFMDR




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY08                                                9.14                      120.00
FY09                                               36.42                      130.60

                             Total:                45.56                      250.60

Supervision/ICR
FY09                                                7.35                       25.52
FY10                                               81.60                      158.67
FY11                                               47.70                      123.66
FY12                                               16.51                       74.14
FY13                                               17.53                       55.05
FY14                                                9.66                       14.04
FY15                                                9.36                       28.57
                             Total:               189.71                      479.65

                     Grand Total:                 235.27                     730.25




                                                  33
                 Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results


Not Applicable




                                 34
                 Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not Applicable




                                       35
        Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower has provided a comprehensive 72-page ICR and only a summary detailing the
section on evaluation of performance is provided here. The full report is available upon request
and has also been uploaded in the Portal.




    AFGHANISTAN FINANCIAL SECTOR STRENGTHENING
                     PROJECT



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                              To

                                            IDA


                                    FSSP - P110644



                                       October 2014



                                              36
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       Currency Unit = US$

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABA     Afghanistan Banking Association
AIBF    Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance
ARDS    Afghanistan Reconstruction Development Services (part of Ministry of
        Economy)
BER     Bid Evaluation Report
CBS     Core Banking System
CR      Collateral Registry
DAB     Da Afghanistan Bank
EOI     Expression of Interest
FAIDA   Financial Access for Investing in the Development of Afghanistan (part of
        USAID
FSSP    Financial Sector Strengthening Project
FY      Fiscal Year
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (part of the World
        Bank)
IDA     International Development Association (part of the World Bank Group)
IFC     International Finance Cooperation
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IUFR    International unaudited Financial Report
MFIs    Microfinance Institutions
MISFA   Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan
MOF     Ministry of Finance of Afghanistan
MTR     Mid-term Review
NOL     No Objection Letter (World Bank Approval)
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCR     Public Credit Registry
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIC     Project Implementation Cell
PSC     Project Steering Committee
RFP     Request for Proposal
RFQ     Request for Quotation
SDU     Special Disbursement Unit (part of Ministry of Finance)
SIR     System Integration Review
SPC     Special Procurement Committee (a Committee in Ministry of Finance)
TA      Technical Assistance
TOR     Terms of Reference
UNDB    United National Development Business
USAID   U.S Agency for International Development



                                  37
Content:

Title                                                                                 Page
  DATA SHEET                                                                                 i
     B. Key Dates                                                Error! Bookmark not defined.
     C. Ratings Summary                                          Error! Bookmark not defined.
     D. Sector and Theme Codes                                   Error! Bookmark not defined.
     E. Bank Staff                                               Error! Bookmark not defined.
     F. Results Framework Analysis                               Error! Bookmark not defined.
     G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                   Error! Bookmark not defined.
     H. Restructuring (if any)                                   Error! Bookmark not defined.
     I. Disbursement Profile                                     Error! Bookmark not defined.
     1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                                   1
     2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                                    7
     3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                            14
     4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                         18
     5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       19
     6. Lessons Learned                                                                   22
     7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners              22
     Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
     Annex 2: Outputs by Component                                                        26
     Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis                                             30
     Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes               31
     Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  34
     Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                                     35
     Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR                      36
Basic Data                                                                                39
1.     Project Performance                                                                42
     1.1.   Overall Performance                                                           42
     1.2.   Performance of Consultants, Contractors, and Suppliers                        48
2.     Performance of DAB and Donor Agency                                                48
     2.1.   Performance of DAB                                                            48
     2.2.   Performance of Donor Agency (IDA)                                             49
3.     Overall Performance and Rating                                                     49
                                                 38
4.     Challenges, Lessons/Recommendations                                                    50
     4.1.   Challenges and Recommendations                                                    50
     4.2.   Lessons:                                                                          51
     Annex 8: Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders                       53
     Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents                                                    54
     MAP                                                                                      55




Basic Data

Table 1: Fact Sheet
 Original Date: 24 May 209 to 30 Jun          Task Team Leader: Guillemette Sidonie Jaffrin
     2014                                     Sectors: Banking 80%, Gen Financial Sector
     Revised date: 24 May 09 to 31 Dec        (20%)
     2014                                     Themes: Other Financial and Private Sector
     DAB Governor: Noorullah Delawari
     Project Director: Basharmal Pasarlai,
     Previous Director: Zalmei Sherzad
     Project Deputy Dir: Samiullah Mahaal
     Project ID: P110644
     Grant Number H484-AF
     Recipient: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
     Responsible Agency: Ministry of Finance, Government of Afghanistan
     Implementing Agency: Da Afghanistan Bank
     Type of Operation: New Operation
     Financing type: IDA Grant
     Total Amount: US$8,000,000               Implementing Period: 54 months
     Effectiveness date: June 18, 2009        Closing Date: 31 December 2014


                                                  39
                         Financing Plan (USD m)
Source           Local           Foreign             Total
IDA              -               8.00                8.00

         Estimated Disbursements (by the Bank FY/USD Millions)
                   2010    2011       2012    2013   2014        Total
IDA                1.50     1.50      2.00     2.00   1.00       8.00




                                  40
Table 2: IDA Financing and Project Disbursement by Category of Expenditure
(US$ millions)
                                                                                     Disburseme
                                        Amount of       Financing      Amount of
                                                                                          nt
                                        the Grant       Percentage       Grant
        Expenditure Category                                                          Percentage
                                        Allocations      (inclusive    Disbursed
                                                                                     (inclusive of
                                         (US$ m)          of taxes)     (US$ m)
                                                                                        taxes)
 (1) Goods, consultants’ services and
                                            5.70          100%        1,413,263.94     24.80%
     training for component 1
 (2) Goods, consultants’ services and
     training for component 2: Public       1.60          100%         541,921.25      33.87%
     Credit Registry
 (3) Goods, consultants’ services and
     training for component 2:              0.45          100%         176,812.94      39.29%
     Collateral Registry
 (4) Goods, consultants’ services and
     training for component 2:
                                            0.25          100%         184,103.41      73.64%
     Afghanistan Institute of Banking
     and Finance
 Bank Charges                                                             325
 Total                                      8.00                      2,316,426.54     28.95%

Table 3: Goods, Consultancy Services and Trainings Cost Disbursement by Year:
   Category        2010          2011            2012         2013          2014          Total

 Goods           43,492.30              -    23,880.04     512,831.25             -     580,203.59
 Services       335,227.52     559,201.64   351,439.70     315,834.20     26,613.00   1,587,516.06
 Trainings       84,945.00      15,245.89            -      47,391.00             -     148,381.89
 Bank Charges        75.00          75.00        75.00         100.00             -         325.00
 G. Total       463,739.82     574,522.53   375,394.74     876,156.45     26,613.00 2,316,426.54




                                            41
                               600000


                               500000


                               400000
              FSSP - P110644
                                                                                                              Goods
                               300000
                                                                                                              Services
                                                                                                              Trainings
                               200000
                                                                                                              Bank charges

                               100000


                                    0
                                    2009.5 2010 2010.5 2011 2011.5 2012 2012.5 2013 2013.5 2014 2014.5
                                                     Grant Disbursement on Annual Basis



5. Project Performance

5.1 Overall Performance
 The FSS Project management observed the overall performance stated in below table 15. Mid
 Term Review report quotes incorporated in the context.

   Project Development Objective:                     The Project has improved access to formal banking
                                                      services bound to approved regulations and
   The PDO is to assist DAB to                        establishing key initial financial infrastructure for
   improve its core function of                       further financial reform such as establishment of
   banking supervision and regulation,                Collateral Registry and Public Registry System at
   and to help improve access to                      DAB and as well as activation and supported the
   formal banking services by                         Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance by
   establishing key initial building                  providing technical assistance and equipment.
   blocks for further financial sector
   reform.                             The Project design has major focus on off-site
                                       supervision automation rather than a feasible
                                       approach of capacity building prior to automation of
                                       the off-site supervision.

                                                      In the current design, the project director role was
                                                      only a facilitator and Project implementation
                                                      maintained by PIC structure in a functional
                                                      organization.



                                                          42
                                       As per the Mid Term Review was conducted by the
                                       World Bank during March 2013. In hindsight, the
                                       PDO indicators have also shown their limits.
                                       “Overall improvement of DAB’s core functions of
                                       banking supervision and regulation as perceived by
                                       the commercial banks through biannual service and
                                       evaluated by the supreme council”.

                                       Since the Kabul Bank crisis, the Central Bank or ABA
                                       has not conducted any survey. In addition, the quality
                                       of banking regulation and supervision should not be
                                       only measured by perception surveys with
                                       commercial banks, as commercial banks might prefer
                                       a more lenient Central Bank, rather than a Central
                                       Bank which strictly enforces laws and regulations.

Component 1:                           Since the recruitment of qualified individual
The Project aims to strengthening      consultant for the preparation of required technical
DAB’s capacity through (i)             specification for automation of Off-site supervision
strengthening of the off-site          was unsuccessful. In consultation with World Bank,
supervisory functions of DAB. (ii)     DAB include banking supervision expertise in the
Strengthening of DAB’s accounting      Term of Reference of the IT consultancy firm (US
and internal audit capabilities, and   Tech Solutions), hired in October 2011 for the
(iii) establishment of an effective    assessment      of    IT    requirements      design,
human       resource   management      implementation and supervision of IT installations.
system, and (iv) development of an
effective information technology       Strengthening Accounting Department’s Capacity:
system.                                An individual consultant was hired for a year, and the
                                       following key outputs were delivered.

                                          Comprehensive DAB Budget manual in 2 parts
                                          Accounting policies and procedures manual
                                          Financial management manual for both projects
                                           (FSSP and FSRRP)
                                          Training for manual implementation

                                       Strengthening Internal Audit Department’s Capacity:
                                       Individual consultant was hired for almost one and
                                       half year (18 months), and following key outputs
                                       were delivered.

                                          Internal audit manual part I ( policies and
                                           standards) and part II (audit operations and
                                           methodologies)
                                          Internal audit policies
                                          Audit charter

                                           43
   Training and guidance on the manuals
   Conducted detailed assessment of comptroller
    general (CGO) staff, and on the Job training to
    CGO staff.

Human Resource Management:               Individual
consultant was hired for nine months, and following
policies were delivered and being implemented:

   Performance management policy
   Recruitment, selection and appointment policy
   Staff training and development policy
   Promotion policy
   Conflict of interest policy
   Harassment general policy
   Sexual harassment policy
   Grievance and reconciliation policy
   Corrective and disciplinary action policy
   Staff requisition forms

Information Technology: A first procurement process
failed, which led to significant delays for the
implementation of the whole project. The second
procurement process was successful and an IT
consultancy firm (US Tech Solutions) was hired in
October 2011 for the assessment of IT requirements,
design, implementation and supervision of IT
installations. The firm delivered the following key
outputs:

   Initial assessment of current IT systems
   IT development strategic plan
   Implementation roadmap
   Proposed IT organization development plan
   Technical requirements for off-site supervision
    automation
   Technical requirements for human resource
    systems automation
   Technical requirements for foreign exchange
    auction and daily exchange rate
   Technical requirement for audit department
   Assistance in procurement of Public Credit
    Registry
   Assistance in the HRMS software procurement
    process.

    44
                                        As discussed above, the World Bank found
                                        unsatisfactory the technical specifications for
                                        automation of Off-site supervision, and it was
                                        recommended not to proceed with the procurement
                                        phase and to review this activity during the Mid Term
                                        Review conducted during March 2013.

                                        Following the assessment was conducted by the IT
                                        firm, it was concluded that a new Information System
                                        for Human Resource Management was not necessary.
                                        Instead, it was deemed sufficient to install missing
                                        modules (attendance module and pension module)
                                        and customize and integrate the HRMS in the existing
                                        Core Banking System (CBS) of DAB.

Component 2: Development of             A first procurement process failed (bids were non-
basic infrastructure in the financial   compliant) – which led to significant delays. The
sector.                                 second procurement process was ultimately
                                        successful and the contract between DAB and the
Establishment of a public credit        selected bidder (Credit Info GmbH) was signed on
registry                                February 19, 2013. The first phase (establishing
                                        production site) of the public credit registry was
(i) Technical assistance for the        inaugurated on December 16, 2013 and the Disaster
     review and drafting of relevant    Recovery Site (DRS) will be completed in 2014.
     enabling laws, regulations and     25% of the contract price was paid under FSSP and
     amendments                         the rest of 75% of the contract amount will be paid
(ii) Conducting workshops to            under additional financing to FSRRP.
     explain the benefits of credit
     reporting systems                  The IFC has been providing technical assistance to
(iii)Acquisition and installation of    DAB on this activity.
     physical infrastructure
     including software and             The PCR technical staffs have attended various
     hardware development               technical trainings/workshops were conducted by IFC
(iv) Organization of study tours and    in Dubai and as well as workshops held by the firm.
     workshops to educate relevant
     stakeholders on the benefits of
     a public credit registry,

Establishment of a collateral           The contract for the supply and installation of the
registry                                (movable) Collateral Registry was signed between
                                        DAB and a firm (Paradigm Application LCC) on June
(i) technical assistance for the        30, 2011. The Collateral Registry was inaugurated on
    review and drafting of relevant     February 19, 2103.
    enabling laws, procedures,


                                            45
        regulations and amendments        Similarly, another contract for the supply and
        on registration of collateral     installation of hardware system for the collateral
(ii)    Conducting workshops to           registry was signed between DAB and a firm (Mega
        explain the benefits of a         Plus Afghanistan Ltd). The required hard was
        collateral registry               supplied and installed at DAB.
(iii)   Acquisition and installation of
        physical infrastructure           Recently, after inauguration the DAB CR department
        including software and            has requested for additional functionality of the
        hardware development              Collateral Registry through providing following
(iv)    Training aimed at building        features. The proposal has been accepted and will be
        internal capacity for managing    funded under additional financing to FSRRP.
        the registry
(v)     Development of a registry             Establishment of Disaster Recovery Site (DRS)
        guide and manual                       for collateral registry
(vi)    Conducting workshops to               Training of CR staff on complete functional and
        explain the benefits of a              technical issues of the software and
        collateral registry                   Extension of required support and maintenance
                                               for the additional 2 years between the firm and
                                               DAB.

                                          The IFC has provided technical assistance to DAB on
                                          this activity.

                                          The activity supports the establishment of a movable
                                          collateral registry and doesn’t tackle immovable
                                          collateral. The system is operating normally and
                                          thousands of notices being registered.
Supporting the physical                   The project supported DAB in establishing the AIBF
development of the Afghanistan            in November 2010 for contributing to the capacity
Institute of Banking and Finance          building of the banking and microfinance sector.
(AIBF)
                                          Beside FSSP and the Financial Sector Rapid
(i) technical assistance for the          Response Project (FSRRP), the IFC, HARAKAT and
     review and drafting of relevant      USAID’s Financial Access for Investing in the
     enabling laws, procedures,           Development of Afghanistan project (FAIDA), has
     regulations and amendments           supported the AIBF and technical assistance provided
     on registration of collateral        to the Institute.
(ii) Conducting workshops to
     explain the benefits of a            Based on needs, the FSS project has provided
     collateral registry                  technical assistance and office equipment, furniture,
                                          IT equipment and other goods to the Institute.

                                          A partnership agreement for regional collaboration
                                          was also signed between DAB and a regional
                                          banker’s training institute (Bangladesh Institute of
                                          Banking and Management, BIBM) to support AIBF

                                               46
                                           in training of trainers, provision of training modules,
                                           and curriculum design. The BIBM delivered three
                                           years training curriculum, modules and training
                                           polices. However, the contract was terminated in a
                                           mutual agreement in January 2013, because the scope
                                           of the contract was no longer relevant for AIBF.


The slow project performance is attributed to the following main reasons:

      Multiple failed procurement processes which led to significant delays.

            It was noticed that it is extremely difficult to hire qualified individual consultants
             (with highly technical expertise on financial sector issues and reasonable
             remuneration) because of the security context of Afghanistan.

            The first procurement of the IT firm also failed because of security consideration
             (the winning firm ended up declining the assignment because of the security
             context).

            The first procurement process for the Public Credit Registry failed as bids were
             declared non-compliant.

      In hindsight, the project design appears ill adapted to the Afghan context: It was found
       in the Mid Term Review that the approach to capacity building through individual
       consultants is not effective, which was quoted in the MTR report as follow:

            Experience has shown, in Afghanistan, that building sustainable capacity in
             institutions require a comprehensive and long term approach, as piloted by the
             Capacity Building for Results (CBR) facility – rather than relying on individual
             consultants tasked with developing, for example, manuals.

            In addition, the scope of Component 1 also appears, in hindsight, over ambitious
             considering the limited resources of the project and the capacity building approach
             chosen (reliance on individual consultants); strengthening of the off-site
             supervision of DAB; strengthening of DAB’s accounting and internal audit
             capabilities; establishment of an effective human resource management systems
             and development of an effective information technology system.

       The above reasons have resulted into low disbursement of IDA grants for FSS project. By
       end of the project only 29% of the IDA grant of US$8million had been disbursed after 4
       years of project implementation. On the basis of above reasons, the project was highly
       proposed for restructuring and closing of the project. On 31st December 2013, the project
       was officially closed with a three month grace period to wind up and make all pending
       payments. Existing long term (PCR and HR Software) and new contract (Capacity



                                                47
       development for Financial Supervision Department of DAB) etc were transferred to FSRRP
       with additional financing of US$6.7million.


5.2 Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
  The consultants that were hired under FSS project substantially completed their assignments
  and the key outputs delivered by the consultant to the concern department of DAB. The IT
  Consultancy firm (US Tech Solutions) has completed 60% of their assignment. The
  contractors and supplier of collateral registry (for software Paradigm Application, and for
  hardware Mega plus Afghanistan) have completed their assignments and the supplier of public
  credit registry (Credit Info) has almost completed implementation of the system and contract,
  it is expected that the remaining work would be done under additional financing to FSRRP.
  The procurement consultant contract was completed during 2012 and another consultant was
  hired in October 2012 under the FSRR project. A list of consultants, contractors and suppliers
  is attached as Appendix 6 to the report.

6. Performance of DAB and Donor Agency

6.1 Performance of DAB
  The performance of Da Afghanistan Bank in project implementation was satisfactory in
  general and DAB had two level monitoring and supervision of the FSS project and the project
  has been implemented by DAB through a two tier system of project management, i.e, project
  implementation Cell (PIC) and Project Steering Committee (PSC).

       Project Implementation Cell (PIC): The PIC was responsible for managing day to day
        project implementation. The PIC, led by Project Director, was composed of staffs of the
        related department of responsibilities include, inter alia, coordination of project
        implementation among the various DAB departments and the PSC, preparation of annual
        work plans and budgets, procurement, financial management, and preparation of progress
        reports. As per project document each concerned department for the project was nominate
        a PIC member with relevant experience. The PIC member was working closely with hired
        consultant; provide them with necessary information; attend project implementation
        meetings and brief the head of its department on the progress of project implementation.
        Capacity within the related department was created in the areas of procurement, financial
        management, human resource management, IT and others as required for the project
        implementation. The PIC was fully integrated into enhance the effectiveness of the project
        implementation.

       Project Steering Committee (PSC): The PSC chaired by the Governor and the First
        Deputy Governor, and composed of all heads of the related departments, has overseen the
        PIC and provide strategic guidance and managerial direction for the project
        implementation.

  DAB has supported the project in hiring process of the project staffs based on approved
  structure by Supreme Council. The salaries of the project staff have been paid by DAB

                                               48
  according to its scale. The FSS project operating cost were covered from DAB operating
  budget until the FSRR project operating cost was approved by the World Bank in 2012. All
  the contracts’ procurements were done by the assigned committees under close supervision of
  DAB. The decision body for the project was the PSC led by DAB management. During the
  project implementation, several PSC meetings conducted by Steering Committee and the
  progress of the project were reported to the committee.


6.2 Performance of Donor Agency (IDA)
  The World Bank has provided close support and collaboration in the implementation of the
  project in term of reviewing and approval of the procurement plan and as well as training plan
  (some trainings on individual basis approved). The Task Team for the project, procurement
  unit, and finance unit for the project in the World Bank has provided the close support through
  Task Team leadership to the project for financing their activities and solution of the existing
  problems.

  The procurement processes for goods and consultancy services were closely followed up by
  the World Bank and their technical advice were considered and incorporated into the RFPs,
  Bid documents, Bid Evaluation Reports and Contracts for goods and services.

  The IFRs were reviewed and accepted by the World Bank. The Bank has also audited the FSS
  project annually and provided DAB with final observation and recommendations for
  improving project implementation process, and also did follow up the progress after
  recommendations.

  The No Objection for prior review contracts were given on time except some more technical
  cases naturally needs more time for review.

7. Overall Performance and Rating
  The FSS project most of the activities retained for the rescaled project were late but satisfactory
  implemented except automation of off-site supervision. There were significant delays in the
  procurement processes of the IT system for PCR and IT consultancy firm due to many reasons,
  out of which one is the security threats that were avoiding eligible vendors to join assignments
  in Afghanistan.

  Since, the procurement process for the prior review contracts were based on International
  Competitive Bidding process, therefore the project implementation was slow in disbursement
  part and as well as due to many significant delays happened, such as procurement process
  failed.

  In MTR conducted during March 2013 and by implementing the findings of review, the project
  performance was rated on section wise as follow:

         a) Procurement                              Satisfactory

                                                49
         b)   Financial Management                 Moderate Satisfactory
         c)   Counterpart Funding                  Satisfactory
         d)   Monitoring and Evaluation            Satisfactory
         e)   Project Management                   Satisfactory

  Furthermore, the M&E results framework is tabulated in page 48

8. Challenges, lessons/ recommendations:

8.1 Challenges and Recommendations
  The implementation arrangements of the FSSP were relatively new in Afghanistan. The project
  was design with the assumption that the project Director will implement the project with the
  full support and collaboration of the Project Implementation Cell (PIC) and Project Steering
  Committee (PSC). However, after project kick off, it was very apparent that not all the
  implementing partners/members have the same pace and strong institutional capacity to meet
  all their targets. Timely procurement was very paramount for the accelerated of project
  implementation.

  The project faced major challenges in the recruitment of qualified and competent consultants
  and contractors. Most of these have to do with the current situation in Afghanistan. There were
  few Afghan firms/companies/Individual with the requisite experience to effectively undertake
  and complete projects at the required standards. International firms/companies/individual in
  most cases were reluctant to come to Kabul and in the case where they choose to come, they
  was charging a premium to come. During the course of the project, other major challenges
  were encountered which contributed to delay in the project implementation – procurement and
  inadequate capacity can be singled out as the biggest challenges. Higher remuneration for staff
  that commensurate with their work should be considered. The uncompetitive pay package,
  which is not commensurate with the workload, was a major obstacle to maintaining high-level
  motivation and retention of professional staff. Training and capacity-building by offering both
  long and short term courses can be a very good motivation factors for the limited staff of the
  project.

  All payments were centralized through the Ministry of Finance. Whilst this was good for
  Government control purposes, the “turnaround time” to effect payment is longer that what the
  project expect. This challenge was beyond the control of the project team and there was need
  for the intervention of higher authorities. As can be seen in the financial figures, there was a
  big gap between the commitment amount and the actual amount disbursed.

  Other challenges include the followings.

     No authority given to the Project Director: Each and every stage of the procurement
      process that needs approval or review was forwarded to DAB management for action. The
      project director had no authority to approve or sign any document. Even the purchase of
      routine items like office stationeries and supplies was forwarded to the management for

                                              50
      approval. These arrangements greatly contribute to the delay in procurement. To avoid
      such situation it will be a good idea to give some level of authority to the Project Director
      by allowing him to handle low value contracts. For example all procurement contracts
      below USD50,000 should be handled by the Project Director and only contract above USD
      50,000 should be taken to the Governor for signature.

     Late involvement of DAB legal Department in the procurement process: All contracts
      were referred to DAB Legal Counsel for review before the Governor can take any action.
      The argument according to the office of the Governor was that, it is a Government
      requirement to have all contracts reviewed by the Legal Department to ensure compliance
      with the National Law. Whiles this was a welcoming idea, it usually take weeks before a
      feedback can be received from the legal counsel. The lengthy process for legal review
      unnecessarily increases the procurement lead time since all contracts were based on World
      Bank standard format. It would be better to involve the Legal Department at an earlier stage
      in the procurement (as a member of the evaluation team) so that their views can be
      incorporated before the contract is finalized. This will ultimately lead to some reduction in
      the procurement lead time.

     Composition and commitment of the evaluation team: Evaluation team members were
      usually the Director of Head of Departments who were extremely busy with their normal
      schedule and had little time to attend evaluation meeting. Because they do not have enough
      time for evaluation, they usually come to evaluation meeting unprepared and therefore
      would not contribute effective. The result was usually a request for another meeting leading
      to the delay in completion of the evaluation reports it would be more appropriate to have
      the evaluation done by junior or mid-level management staffs that have some knowledge
      on what is being evaluated and then present their findings to senior management for
      approval.

     Bureaucracy procedure for the payment in MoF: The FSS project was responsible to
      pay to their vendor by approval of DAB management and through designated account of
      Ministry of Finance via its normal procedures (details explained in disbursement/payment
      cycle in previous pages), which is a very lengthy and bureaucratic procedure holding strong
      role for significant delays in payment to the vendor. Therefore, it would be better that each
      project get a specific budget code as other ministries holds, this will help the project to
      prepare the allotment (B27) and payment order (M16) by their own and get approval of
      signatories at MoF, and payment package will finally submitted to SDU for payment and
      check issuance to vendor. In this way, the whole payment process will take only 15 days
      as per discussion with other ministries Focal Points.

     Late World Bank NoL: The project was not usually receiving WB NoL at due time to
      process the activities as planned.

8.2 Lessons:

  Several lessons were learnt from the implementation of this project, some of them are
  explained as follows:
                                               51
   In November 2010, a contract was signed between DAB and Bangladesh Institute of
    Banking and Management (BIBM) for the purpose of providing collaboration to the
    Afghanistan Institute of Banking and Finance (AIBF) for 3-5 years in term of conducting
    training to trainers, provision of training modules, and curriculum design. The BIBM has
    delivered training curriculum and modules.

    As a result of AIBF Director visit to BIBM during January 2013 and also according to the
    evaluation of the performance of BIBM during the past 18 months, it was noticed that the
    scope of the contract was no longer relevant for AIBF at the time. It was therefore highly
    recommended to terminate the contract and develop a new RFP with a broader and
    comprehensive scope whereby a better institute can be attracted to support AIBF. The
    contract termination notice to BIBM was shared on February 20, 2013.

    However, the project recommends that for such cases of the regional collaboration, a
    temporary contract as a pilot study with regional bankers’ institute should take place in
    order to determine whether the services offered meets the scope and requirements of the
    purchaser.

   The second lesson learnt was the practice of allocating additional budget for the contract
    of public credit registry. In the project design the allocated cost for public credit registry
    was $1.6 million and the actual contract become $2.2 million; therefore in consultation
    with World Bank the project decided to suspend the trainings and instead spend the amount
    on the actual contract of supply and installation of public credit registry. However, this was
    a best practice for successfully implementation of the credit registry. But the project
    recommends that during project design the stakeholders should have real picture of the IT
    industry along with up-gradations and reasonable value estimation for such activity.

8.3 Special Thanks to DAB Governnor-
    8.3.1 H.E. DAB Governor; Noorullah really prioritized project plans and activities.
    8.3.2 H.E. DAB Governor; Noorullah was very much committed to the success of the
    project.




                                             52
   Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


1. NOT APPLICABLE




                                  53
                     Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents


1.  World Bank: Afghanistan Financial Sector Study; 2004
2.  World Bank Interim Strategy Note for Afghanistan; April 2006
3.  World Bank Minutes of PCN Review Meeting; April 2008
4.  World Bank Minutes of the Decision Meeting; February 2009
5.  Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports; November 2009 – January 2014:
    Sequences 1 to 7
6. World Bank Emergency Project Paper; April 2009
7. World Bank Financing Agreement; April 2009
8. World Bank Supervision Mission Aide Memoires
9. World Bank Mid-term Review Mission Aide Memoire; March 2013
10. World Bank Restructuring Paper on a proposed restructuring of the Afghanistan
    Financial Sector Rapid Response Project; November 2013
11. World Bank Restructuring Paper on a proposed restructuring of the Afghanistan
    Financial Sector Strengthening Project ; January 2014
12. Afghanistan Financial Sector Strengthening Project: Borrower’s ICR; October 2014
13. The Afghanistan Compact; 2006
14. Afghanistan Enabling Economic Conference (EEC) Road Map; 2007
15. Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS); 2008-2013
16. Public Credit Registry (PCR) Afghanistan – Project Completion Report, March 2015,
    IFC




                                         54
MAP




55
