Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16698
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTEPRRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
(Credit no. 2639-KG)
June 16, 1997
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1997)
Currency Unit = Som
1 Som = US$ .056
US$1 = 17.6 Som
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Som per US$1
Period Average       End of Period
1993                        5.9                   8.3
1994                       10.9                  10.6
1995                       10.8                  11.2
1996                       12.9                  16.9
1997-I                     17.2                  17.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Director: Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief: Michael Gould, EC3AI
Responsible Staff: F. Aynur Sumer, EC3AI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC                 Anti-Monopoly Committee
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CMP                 Care and Maintenance Program
CPA                 Country Procurement Assessment Report
ERRA                Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
ESAF                Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FINSAC              Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOSKOMINVEST    State Committee for Foreign Investments and
Economic Assistance
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
ISC                 Joint Stock Company
LLMEs               Large Loss-Making State Enterprises
NBK                 National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
PESAC               Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PMU                 PESAC Management Unit
PSD                 Private Sector Development
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SMP                 Special Means of Payment (Vouchers)
SOE                 State-Owned Enterprise
SPF                 State Property Fund
SSN                 Social Safety Net
STF                 Systemic Transformation Facility
TA                  Technical Assistance
TAC                 TA Component of the Rehabilitation Credit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforTnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
(Credit No. 2639-KG)
CONTENTS
Preface ................................  i
Evaluation Summary ................................  ii-vii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..
A. Introduction ............................1
B. Project Origin and Objectives .........    .................. 1
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................          3
D. Implementation Record ...........................                      9
E. Project Sustainability ........................... 9
F. IDA Performance ........................... 10
G. Borrower Performance ........................... 10
H. Assessment of Outcome ........................... 11
I. Future Operations ........................... 11
J. Key Lessons Learned ........................... 12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES . ................................ 14
Annexes:
A. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B. Second Tranche Release Memorandum
Map (IBRD 26822)






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
(Credit no. 2639-KG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Privatization and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) for the Kyrgyz Republic, for which credit in the amount of SDR
42.5 million (US $60 million equivalent) was appraised in March 1994, and approved by the Board
on June 29, 1994. The Credit Agreement was signed on July 7, 1994, and became effective, with release
of the first tranche of SDR 21.25 million (US$30 million equivalent), on September 22, 1994. The first
tranche was fully disbursed by February 1995; and the second tranche was released on June 5, 1995.
The Credit was fully disbursed and closed on December 31, 1995, on schedule.
The ICR was prepared by the Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division of Country
Department III of the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. It was prepared by F. Aynur Sumer
(EC3AI), and was reviewed by Michael Gould, Chief EC3AI; by Constantine Michalopoulos, Senior
Advisor, Country Department III; and, by Marc Blanc, Project Advisor Country Department III. The
Borrower provided comments that are included as an annex (Annex A) to this ICR.
Extensive supervision was provided during the implementation of the Reform Program
supported by PESAC, as described in the Supervision Plan of the President's Report (Report No. P-
6341-KG). Final review of the Credit took place during a brief ICR Mission in March 1997.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
(Credit No.2639-KG)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Kyrgyz Republic embarked in 1992 on an ambitious program of stabilization and structural
reforms. During 1992-93, a number of laws and decrees were enacted, new institutions created, and an
ambitious set of reforms designed and implemented. Over the past four years, the economy has followed
a path of sustained stabilization. The rate of inflation has been brought down from an annual average
of over 1000 percent in 1992, to less than 30 percent at present. In 1994, deposit and credit interest rates
were liberalized, directed credits were discontinued, and domestic bank financing of the budget deficit
was sharply curtailed. As part of its stabilization program, the Government has also established a foreign
exchange auction market, a floating exchange rate, and a fully liberalized exchange regime with no
restrictions on current or capital account transactions. A major liberalization of the trade regime has also
occurred. Non-tariff barriers were removed, and export taxes have been eliminated on all goods.
2.    These reforms have been supported by a Rehabilitation Credit (FY93) and successive adjustment
operations from IDA, and various IMF arrangements in the upper credit tranches, including an ESAF
which is now in the third year. The Rehabilitation Credit (Cr.249 1-KG), IDA's first credit to the Kyrgyz
Republic, served as a bridge to a series of sector adjustment operations through which policy continuum
has been preserved. The Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) was the first
of these adjustment operations, and was designed to support the country's continued efforts to reduce
the role of the State in economic activity, and foster its transformation towards a market economy. The
Credit was appraised in March 1994, and approved by the Board on June 29, 1994. The Credit
Agreement was signed on July 7, 1994, and became effective, with release of the first tranche of SDR
21.25 million (US$30 million equivalent), on September 22, 1994. The first tranche was fully disbursed
by February 1995; and the second tranche was released on June 5, 1995. The Credit was fully disbursed
and closed on December 31, 1995, on schedule.
Project Origin and Objectives
3.    The Kyrgyz Republic had moved rapidly to privatize the state-owned enterprises. However, little
progress had been made to transform either the newly privatized enterprises, or those which were still
state-owned, into efficient economic entities. Despite rapid privatization since 1991, the existing
privatization strategy, based on transferring large blocks of shares to existing managers and workers
collectively was not conducive to improving efficiency in privatized enterprises, as it gave control of
enterprises to those who were most inclined to resist painful restructuring and labor shedding. As a



iii
result, little progress had been made to transform the newly privatized enterprises into economic entities
responding to market signals. Insufficient attention was also being paid to reforming those enterprises
remaining either fully or majority state-owned (SOEs). Indeed, little had been done (i) to improve their
internal governance; and, (ii) to promote financial efficiency by hardening the budget constraint, and
implementing exit mechanisms for the failing SOEs. As a result, the performance of newly privatized
enterprises had been disappointing, and serious financial disorders had emerged both among SOEs and
in the banking system.
4.     Most budgetary subsidies and subsidized credits from the National Bank (NBK) to SOEs had
already been eliminated under the IMF-supported programs. However, significant amounts of directed
credits were still being channelled to loss-making state enterprises through the banking system. The
Government's efforts to stay within planned credit ceilings combined with large directed credits from the
commercial banks to SOEs, had sharply reduced credit availability to many deserving viable enterprises.
Moreover, inter-enterprise arrears had re-emerged on a large scale. Overdue loans of the commercial
banks were also increasing, leading to serious illiquidity or insolvency problems in the banking system.
The lack of adjustment at the enterprise level was creating an unsustainable drain on the country's
financial resources, endangering the solvency of the banking system, and seriously undermining the
stabilization objective.
5.     The PESAC Reform Program therefore focused on the following key objectives: (i) improving
the quality of privatization through competitive and transparent methods, particularly in industry, trade
and transport; (ii) enforcing financial discipline on state-owned enterprises (SOEs) that would remain
temporarily in Government ownership, and reducing economic and financial costs to the economy of large
loss-making state enterprises (LLMEs) through liquidation or "passive" restructuring; (iii) improving the
enabling environment for private sector development by reducing market imperfections, price and trade
distortions, and barriers to entry and exit; and (iv) helping to ease the social costs of adjustment.
6.     The "new" Privatization Strategy supported by the Credit was designed to improve the quality
of privatization, allow free exercise of individual shareholding rights, and amend the legal context for
rights already transferred. Solving the problems of large loss-making state-owned enterprises was
expected to help reduce their burden on the budget, the banking system, other viable enterprises, and also
to contribute greatly to the stabilization objective.  These enterprise-level adjustments were to be
complemented by policy and regulatory reforms to remove policy-induced and regulatory barriers to
enterprise efficiency, and help create a policy environment in which private sector could flourish.
Achievement of Project Objectives: The Outcome
7.     The project's outcome was highly satisfactory. The project has achieved all of its objectives and
surpassed some of them.  While the focus of macroeconomic policies were on stabilization, the
Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program, supported by PESAC, was the cornerstone of
the country's structural reform agenda during 1994-95. The Borrower successfully implemented the
Program, with impressive achievements in mass privatization, and price and trade liberalization.
8.    Privatization.  The Borrower's performance on privatization largely surpassed the progress
expected under PESAC. Under the PESAC Reform Program, the Borrower has prepared a new
Privatization Concept Note (1993) and a new Privatization Law (1993), and implemented a "new"
divestiture strategy which was transparent, competitive and fair. It was also conducive to achieving
greater efficiency in privatized enterprises. The main features of the new approach were: (i) free use of



iv
individual shareholding rights; (ii) commitment to auction off a proportion of shares in privatized
enterprises against vouchers; and, (iii) systematic use of competitive methods of privatization for all
categories of enterprises. Under the new strategy, small-scale enterprises would be privatized through
competitive bids and cash auctions. In medium and large-scale enterprises, members of the workers'
collective would be given 5 percent of the shares for free; 25 percent of the shares would be auctioned
off against vouchers, and the balance (up to 70 percent) would be sold through competitive tenders (i.e,
competitive privatization proposals (CPP).
9.    In implementation, the Borrower's performance on Privatization has substantially exceeded the
established targets. Under the Reform Program the State Property Fund (SPF) (i) carried out 55 voucher
auctions in 6 oblasts in respect of the sale of shares in previously privatized enterprises, and the sale of
enterprises stillfully state-owned, covering at least 10 enterprises at each auction: and, (ii) offered for
sale 73 medium and large-scale enterprises included in the 1994-95 Privatization program through
competitive privatization tenders. In addition, the SPF (iii) de-monopolized and privatized four large
wholesale trade enterprises (Kyrgyzailkomok, Kyrgyzmashelectrooptorg, Kyrgyzrasnooptorg, and
Kyrgyzmetalooptorg) in the industrial sector; (iv) de-monopolized 3 industrial holding companies; and,
(v) privatized 17 large trucking enterprises in the transport sector.
10.    At the end of the PESAC Reform Program, over 53 percent of the country's total fixed assets
had been fully or partially privatized. After PESAC, the country's privatization efforts have been
supported by subsequent adjustment operations: The Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment
Credit (APEAC) in FY95, and the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) in FY96. By February
1997, (i) all commercially viable small-scale enterprises were fully privatized; (ii) of the approximately
1, 300 medium and large scale enterprises included in the mass privatization program, 993 had gone
through coupon auction; of these 804 were fully or majority privatized. Most of the remaining enterprises
are scheduled for privatization under the 1996-97 Privatization Program.
11.    State Enterprise Reforn And Restructuring. Liquidation or "passive" restructuring of 29 large
loss-making state enterprises (LLMEs) was the most difficult and challenging part of the Reform Program
which encountered some initial implementation difficulties. But the outcome was highly successful.
12.    Under the reform program, all SOEs were transformed into joint stock companies, regardless of
the timing of their intended future privatization. This transformation allowed the SOEs to escape from
the direct and often interventionist tutelage of government agencies into entities that were organized to
operate increasingly on commercial terms. At the same time, the Government transferred 29 selected
LLMEs to a temporary semi-autonomous agency, the Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA),
established under the Reform Program. The reason for focusing on large loss-making enterprises was that
they comprised the bulk of the financial problems in the economy. The program for LLMEs aimed for:
(i) orderly liquidation of the unviable enterprises or components; (ii) rearrangement of the remaining
components into commercial entities; and, (iii) providing the resulting entities with reasonable chances
of success by resolving their indebtedness and generally cleaning up their balance sheets, strengthening
the management and giving them clear and realistic operating programs and targets.
13.    Although the LLMEs were in serious financial difficulty, most of the factors effecting their
financial performance were economy-wide, thus beyond the control of enterprise managers. Moreover,
although in financial difficulty, some of these enterprises had the potential to be economically viable (i.e.,
able to produce goods and services at internationally competitive costs and prices). Potential (economic)
viability of ERRA enterprises were tested through individual diagnostic studies, designed under the



V
operation and financed through the Technical Assistance Component (TAC) of the Rehabilitation Credit
(Credit No.2491-KG). While the diagnostic studies were conducted, the LLMEs were placed under a
special Care and Maintenance Program (CMP). Under the CMP, the Borrower demonstrated its
comnmitment to ERRA's principles by (i) completely stopping the production of enterprises with a negative
gross margin; (ii) setting aside budget funds needed to support the CMP including financial support to
employees on administrative leave, funding for essential social services, and the resources necessary to
implement the passive restructuring of enterprises that were found potentially viable; and (iii) adopting
the implementation regulations of Insolvency Legislation that gave ERRA the legal authority to act as a
liquidator for those enterprises that were judged to be economically unviable.
14.   At the end of the diagnostic reviews of the 29 enterprises, a vast majority (21) were found to be
potentially viable. These 21 enterprises received technical and financial assistance from ERRA to spin
off their non-core activities and improve their financial performance. Of the 21 enterprises restructured,
15 have been privatized and the remaining 6 are currently candidates for privatization. Four (4) ERRA
enterprises were liquidated, and 4 left the program (see Annex A).
15.   The state enterprise restructuring or the ERRA Program  -- that is passive restructuring of
economically viable enterprises before privatization, and liquidation of others with no potential economic
viability -- created an important precedent for the Kyrgyz Republic. It demonstrated that the economy can
gain (not lose !) from liquidation of economically unviable enterprises. Moreover, the downsizing and
passive restructuring of distressed but potentially viable enterprises helped them to improve their financial
performance and allowed them to re-emerge as stronger and more productive entities. Despite initial
implementation difficulties, some political resistance to enterprise liquidation, and labor-intensiveness of
the program, the latter was kept on track and has created a new culture of enterprise adjustment as an
ongoing process of changes. ERRA Program has been supported by successor adjustment operations
(i.e., APEAC in FY95 and FINSAC in FY96)
16.   Price and Trade Liberalization. Under the Reform Program, most prices were completely
liberalized with the removal of all direct and indirect price controls inherited from the forner command
economy. The State has until recently also intervened in the price system through the imposition of
compulsory State orders at administered prices. Under the Reform Program, these orders were replaced
initially by "State needs" based on voluntary supply contracts through market relations, and eliminated
completely. On trade policy, all non-tariff barriers to exports and imports have been removed, and
export taxes have been virtually abolished, with the exception of three commodities, hides and skins, live
and rare animals, and silk cocoons. In addition, the number and quantity of commodities subject to inter-
state clearing arrangements have been reduced substantially.
17.    Legal Reforms. In the area of legal reforms, a Central Legal Reform Unit was created to
coordinate the law making process, and a number of new laws or decrees were prepared to improve the
enabling environment for private sector entry and development. Under this component the Government
(a) issued a Presidential Decree on establishing the right to lease land for 49 years, and clarifying the
land-lease rules; (b) made amendments to the Joint Stock Company law providing for strict duties on
companies in the registration of shares and clarifying the concept of legal personality and the difference
between limited and unlimited liability; (c) prepared a legislation on Competitive State Procurement
Procedures for publicly financed purchases and contracts; and (e) issued two sets of instructions
containing detailed implementation rules to complement the Insolvency Legislation (1994) which was



vi
enacted early on under the Reform Program. Furthermore, (f) a new comprehensive Company Law was
prepared and eventually enacted in 1995.
18.   Social Protection. Finally, supported by the Social Safety Net Project (SSN-FY94) and PESAC,
the Government introduced major changes in its system of social protection to better target social benefits
and protect the unemployed. Under the SSN project, progress was made in streamlining social benefits
for families with incomes below the minimum wage through the unified cash benefits (UCB) which
consolidated former family allowances, bread compensation, child allowances and other social payments.
Under the PESAC Reform Program the Borrower (i) raised the employer contribution to the Employment
Fund to 1.5 percent of the payroll cost; and, (ii) introduced a 0.5 percent contribution from employees.
On the divestiture of social services, primarily heating and hot water facilities, from the 21 restructured
ERRA enterprises, the Borrower decided to transfer these to the local authorities with the exception of
housing and summer camps which were privatized. In addition, supported by PESAC counterpart funds,
the Borrower made a commitment to include annual financial provision (10 million dollar equivalent in
FY94 Budget) to augment the Employment Fund to provide adequate compensation for the unemployed.
Summary Conclusions, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
19.   Successful implementation of the Reform Program supported by PESAC has created improved
and sustainable mechanisms for ongoing privatization, enterprise reform and restructuring, and greatly
enhanced the policy, legal and regulatory environment for private sector development. IDA recognized
that the transition from a command to a modern market economy would take time, and a series of
adjustment operations. These operations would not only support the transition process but also help to
ease the macroeconomic and social consequences of this transition. The PESAC (FY94) operation was
therefore followed by (i) an Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC-FY95);
(ii) a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC-FY96); and, (iii) a Public Sector Resource
Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC-FY97). A Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) is
currently under preparation with a target Board date in FY98.
20.   The Reform Program supported by PESAC has yielded important lessons relevant not only to
future developments in the Kyrgyz Republic but to other transitional economies. These are as follows:
21.   Government Understanding, Commitment and Ownership of Reforms. It would be difficult to
over-emphasize the importance of Borrower understanding, ownership and commitment, to the success
of structural reforms. In the case of PESAC, a highly empowered PESAC Working Group, led by a
Deputy Prime Minister, worked closely with IDA team in the design of the operation. During
implementation, again a highly strong monitoring team, led by the Prime Minister, oversaw the
implementation of the Reform Program. Government commitment and 'ownership' of reforms were the
most important factors contributing to its success.
22.   Importance of Timeliness. IDA's quick response to the Kyrgyz Republic's Balance of Payments
requirements during 1994/95, following the Rehabilitation Credit, won it considerable credibility with
the Government and resulted in close and productive Government-IDA relationship over the years.
PESAC was prepared in 9 months, and fully disbursed and closed in twelve months, on schedule. The
tradeoffs that often occur between timeliness and quality of operations did not happen in PESAC case.
In terms of substance, it was considered one of the "path breaking" operations in its area.



vii
23.   Intensive Monitoring and Supervision. Intensive monitoring and supervision by the Borrower and
IDA is essential during the early phases of reforms in transitional economies when slippages may occur.
Intensive supervision by IDA is essential not just because periodic and active opposition to reforms might
be observed but merely because of lack of adequate understanding and capacity on the part of the
Borrower on what needs to be done. In the case of PESAC, supervision on both sides was intense and
rigorous.
24.   Role of Strategic Investors in Privatized Enterprises.  When and where an enterprise was
privatized through transferring a controlling block of shares, the new owners have demonstrated their
capability to be efficient owners, contributing to the corporate governance and efficiency. It would be
important to further closely monitor and explore the privatization process in the Kyrgyz Republic and
elsewhere in transitional economies, to obtain more solid empirical evidence on the impact of various
privatization policies on the performance of privatized enterprises.
25.   Rationale for Pre-Privatization Restructuring of SOEs. PESAC experience has demonstrated that
pre-privatization restructuring, including stricter enforcement of financial discipline on selected SOEs,
would be justified equally on macroeconomic grounds as it would as a device to accelerate the
privatization of these enterprises. The most important results, achieved by ERRA experience were: (i)
truly hardening the budget constraints of ERRA enterprises that were in great financial difficulty; (ii)
reducing their untenable pressures on the public finance, the banking system and other enterprises; (iii)
creating mechanisms and system for enterprise restructuring, including mechanisms to deal with redundant
labor and with the divestiture of social services; and, (iv) sending clear signals to the policy-makers that
the decision to liquidate or salvage a company should be based on the entity's current or potential
economic viability (i.e., the company's ability to produce goods and services at internationally
competitive costs and prices). The financial performance of a financially distressed enterprise could be
turned around with technical and financial assistance, and this should be provided so long as these
companies are judged to be potentially viable. Finally, an economy can gain from liquidating potentially
unviable companies. Pre-privatization restructuring also helped greatly to enable or accelerate the
privatization of these companies: 15 out of 21 restructured enterprises have already been privatized,
and the remaining 6 are currently candidates for privatization.
26.    Sector Adjustment Operations Provide Powerful Leverage and Incentives for Sector-Wide Policv
and Institutional Changes. Because SECALs are well focused and provide comprehensive agenda for
reform in a particular sector, as compared to more general adjustment operations, their impact on a
particular sector is deeper and greater than those provided by SALs or SACs. For institutional reform
or strengthening, they must always be accompanied by a parallel institution-building technical assistance
project.
06/03/97



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
(Credit No.2639-KG)
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Introduction
1.    The Kyrgyz Republic has been one of the most rapidly reforming countries in the former Soviet
Union (FSU). Since 1992, the Government has made significant progress in achieving greater financial
stability and eliminating market imperfections inherited from the previous command economy. These
reforms have been supported by a Rehabilitation Credit (FY93) and successive adjustment operations from
IDA, and various IMF arrangements in the upper credit tranches. The Rehabilitation Credit (Cr.2491-
KG) supported the foundations of structural reform agenda, and served as a bridge to future sector
adjustment operations. The Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) was thefirst
of these adjustment operations designed to support the country's overall program of stabilization and
structural reforms. The Credit was appraised in March 1994, and approved by the Board on June 29,
1994. The Credit Agreement was signed on July 7, 1994, and became effective, with release of the first
tranche of SDR 21.25 million (US$30 million equivalent), on September 22, 1994. The first tranche was
fully disbursed by February 1995; and the second tranche was released on June 5, 1995. The Credit was
fully disbursed and closed on December 31, 1995, on schedule.
B. Project Origin and Objectives
2.     Following its independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic was confronted with highly adverse
circumstances, outside the control of the Borrower. The dissolution of the Soviet Union resulted in the
termination of fiscal transfers from Moscow which, until 1991, accounted for about 11 percent of GDP.
In addition, the Kyrgyz Republic experienced a large deterioration in terms of trade by about 40 percent
over the first two years primarily due to large increases in import prices of oil and natural gas. This,
in addition to the disruption of the inter-republican trade and payments system, led to a drastic decline
in the volume of trade to about 40 percent of its level in 1990, and contributed to major declines in
output. During 1990-94, real output declined by about 45 percent in Agriculture and by more than 60
percent in Industry. The recorded GDP in 1994 was estimated to have fallen by 26.5 percent in real
terms, bringing the level of estimated income to less than 50 percent of its 1991 level. The continuing
decline in economic activity led to a sharp increase in unemployment which rose from about 1 percent
in 1992 to nearly 9 percent in 1994, including the number of people who have been put on administrative
leave. Despite these adverse developments, the Borrower has pressed ahead with the reform process.
3.    The Government's primary objective over the medium-term was to reverse the sharp decline in
output, strengthen export capacity, and reduce dependence on imported gas and oil, so as to move
progressively toward a sustainable balance of payments position. This would require a dynamic private



2
sector and substantial improvements in the incentive structure for all economic activities. To achieve
these goals, the Government aimed to continue with an improved privatization effort and restore
dynamism to the economy based on the twin pillars of private sector development and export expansion.
In particular, the Government planned to improve incentives for the recovery and expansion of
agricultural and industrial exports through a market-based and unified exchange rate system, continued
exchange and trade liberalization, price deregulation, tax reform and market penetration within and
outside the FSU. The Government also aimed to intensify efforts for oil exploration and energy
substitution and conservation. The State trading and marketing institutions were to be privatized as part
of the 1994-95 Privatization Program, with prior restructuring to reduce monopolistic concentration, if
necessary. The authorities also planned to improve the legal and regulatory framework to protect
property rights, eliminate entry/exit barriers and attract domestic and foreign investors.
4.     The Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program, supported by PESAC was designed
to provide support to the Government in these key reform areas. The Kyrgyz Republic had moved rapidly
to privatize the state-owned enterprises. However, little progress had been made to transform either the
newly privatized enterprises, or those which were still state-owned, into efficient economic entities.
Despite rapid privatization since 1991, the existing privatization strategy, based on transferring large
blocks of shares to existing managers and workers collectively, was not conducive to improving efficiency
in privatized enterprises. Insufficient attention was also being paid to reforming those enterprises
remaining either fully or majority state-owned (SOEs). Indeed, little had been done (i) to improve their
internal governance; and, (ii) to promote financial efficiency by hardening the budget constraint, and
implementing exit mechanisms for the failing SOEs. As a result, the performance of newly privatized
enterprises had been disappointing, and serious financial disorders had emerged both among SOEs and
in the banking system.
5.     Most budgetary subsidies and subsidized credits from the National Bank (NBK) to SOEs had
already been eliminated under the Fund-supported programs. However, significant amounts of directed
credits were still being channelled to loss-making state enterprises through the banking system. The
Government's efforts to stay within planned credit ceilings combined with large directed credits from the
commercial banks to SOEs, had sharply reduced credit availability to many deserving viable enterprises.
Moreover, inter-enterprise arrears had re-emerged on a large scale. Overdue loans of the commercial
banks were also increasing, leading to serious illiquidity or insolvency problems in the banking system.
The lack of adjustment at the enterprise level was creating an unsustainable drain on the country's
financial resources, endangering the solvency of the banking system, and seriously undermining the
stabilization objective.
6.     The PESAC Reform Program therefore focused on the following key objectives: (i) Improving
the quality of privatization through competitive and transparent methods particularly in industry, trade
and transport; and achieving wider distribution of ownership of the country's productive assets among
the populace; (ii) improving financial discipline on state-owned enterprises (SOEs) that would remain
temporarily in Government ownership, and reducing economic and financial costs to the economy of large
loss-making state enterprises (LLMEs) through liquidation or "passive"6 restructuring; (iii) improving
6 "Passive" restructuring focuses on business rationalizing and downsizing; closure of unviable business units;
separation and disposal of peripheral activities: elimination of over-staffing; and, debt reduction and other forms of
financial restructuring. Under "passive"restructuring, no new investment in plant and equipment is allowed.



3
the enabling environment for private sector development by reducing market imperfections, price and
trade distortions, and barriers to entry and exit; and (iv) helping to ease the social costs of adjustment.
C. Achievement of Objectives
7.    The Credit has achieved all of its objectives and surpassed some of them. On mass privatization
and price and trade liberalization, the Borrower's performance has largely surpassed the established
benchmarks.
Progress on Stabilization.
8.    Kyrgyz authorities assumed full control over macroeconomic policies with the introduction of the
national currency, the Som, in May 1993, and embarked on a stabilization program supported by a stand-
by arrangement from the IMF and access to Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). In May 1994, the
IMF approved a three year ESAF arrangement in support of the Borrower's medium-term stabilization
and adjustment program, led by tight money and supported by a strong revenue enhancing effort. During
1994, deposit and credit interest rates were liberalized, directed credits were discontinued, refinance
credit auctions were suspended, and domestic bank financing of the budget deficit was sharply curtailed.
The Borrower has also established a foreign exchange auction market, a floating exchange rate, and a
fully liberal exchange regime with no restrictions on current or capital account transactions. A major
liberalization of the trade regime has also occurred. Non-tariff barriers were removed, and export taxes
have been eliminated on all goods.
9.    The tight monetary stance succeeded in bringing inflation down to around 3 percent per month
in the second half of 1994, from about 23 percent in the later part of 1993. Since then, the economy
has followed a path of sustained stabilization. As a result, the rate of inflation has been brought down
from an annual average of over 1000 percent in 1992 to around 30 percent at present. Tight money and
credit policies bolstered confidence in the Som, resulting in increased willingness by economic agents to
hold higher money balances. In March 1995, the Som became fully convertible following the Borrower's
compliance with the provisions of Article VII of the Articles of Agreement of the IMF. With the rapid
tightening of money and credit, real interest rates became positive around 200 percent by August 1994,
and stabilized around 15 percent at present.
Progress under the PESAC Reform Program
Privatization
10.   With regard to the privatization-related objectives, the project has fully met all of the established
targets and exceeded several of them.  Early in project preparation, the project team assisted the
Government in developing a new Privatization Concept Note (1993) and a new Privatization Law
(December. 1993) with a view to improving the quality of the privatization process. In addition, a draft
Privatization Program for 1994-95 had been prepared. The objectives were to ensure that, in the future,
the methods of privatization would be transparent, competitive, conducive to achieving increased
economic efficiency, and involve the widest possible spectrum of the population. The main features of
the new approach were: (i) free use of individual shareholding rights; (ii) commitment to auction off a
proportion of shares in privatized enterprises against vouchers; and, (iii) systematic use of competitive
methods of privatization for all categories of enterprises. Under the new strategy, small-scale enterprises
would be privatized through competitive bids and cash auctions. In medium and large-scale enterprises,



4
members of the workers' collective would be given 5 percent of the shares for free; 25 percent of the
shares would be auctioned off against vouchers, and the balance (up to 70 percent) would be sold through
competitive tenders (i.e, competitive privatization proposals (CPP)). Establishing the policy framework
early in the project preparation allowed the Borrower to concentrate efforts on the implementation of
privatization. and to surpass the mutually agreed benchmarks.
11.    Under the Reform Program it was agreed that the State Property Fund (SPF)7 would (i) carry
out at least 4 voucher auctions in at least 2 oblasts in respect of the sale of shares in previously privatized
enterprises, through competitive methods covering a minimum of 10 enterprises at each auction; and, (ii)
conduct at least 3 auctions in at least 2 oblasts, and invite interested parties to submit their privatization
proposals for at least 70 enterprises that were still fully government-owned.
12.    The Borrower's performance on the first target has substantially exceeded expectations. From
April 1994 to January 5, 1995, the SPF held 55 coupon auctions in 6 different oblasts for 265 national
and regional enterprises in which SPF still held State shares. In these auctions, 437 million coupon points
and 12 180 bids were submitted. These bids represented participation by an estimated 364 000
individuals who used their coupons directly or indirectly, through investment funds (IFs). By end-
December 1994, the IFs exchanged for shares 61 percent of the total number of points used during the
coupon auctions. The second target was also fully met. By mid-November 1994, the SPF privatized 29
fully State-owned enterprises located in 3 different oblasts through open cry-out auctions and tenders.
By mid-April 1995, the SPF offered for privatization 73 medium and large-scale enterprises included in
the 1994-95 Privatization Program through Competitive Privatization Proposals (CPP) and Tender for
Strategic Investors (TSI) schemes. The TSI represents an improved version of the CPP program under
which, the reference price of an enterprise was established through the auction. Under the TSI program,
price was the only criteria for selecting the winner. Consideration of business plans have been removed
from the selection process, as well as the creation of commissions to evaluate these proposals.
13.    Under the Reform Program it was also agreed that the Borrower would (i) de-monopolize and
privatize four large wholesale trade enterprises (Kyrgyzailkomok, Kyrgyzmashelectrooptorg,
Kyrgyzrasnooptorg, and Kyrgyzmetalooptorg) in the industrial sector; (ii) de-monopolize 3 industrial
holding companies; and, (iii) privatize 10 large trucking enterprises in the transport sector.
14.    The four wholesale trade enterprises were segmented and privatized through primarily coupon
and cash auctions. The 25 percent shares still held by SPF in Kyrgyzmashelectrooptorg and
Kyrgyzmetalooptorg were divested in the course of 1995 through cash and coupon auctions. The
Borrower has, under the Resolution No. 823 of November 14, 1994, abolished the three holding
companies that were under the Ministry of Transport: "Kyrgyzavtotrans", "Kyrgyzzhol" and
"Kyrgyzavtoremprom". Seventeen (rather than 10) large trucking enterprises, identified in October 1994,
were offered for privatization through the CPP program. At the end of the PESAC Reform Program,
over 53 percent of the country's total fixed assets had been fully or partially privatized. After the PESAC
Program, the country's privatization efforts have been supported by subsequent adjustment operations:
The Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) in FY95, and the Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) in FY96. By February 1997, (i) all commercially viable small-scale
enterprises were fully privatized; (ii) of the approximately 1,300 medium and large scale enterprises
included in the mass privatization program, 993 had gone through coupon auction; of these 804 were
' SPF is the agency responsible for managing State property and the State's Privatization Program.



5
fully or majority privatized. Most of the remaining enterprises are scheduled for privatization under the
1996-97 Privatization Program.
State Enterprise Reform and Restructuring
15.   The preferred strategy for dealing with the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) is to privatize them
and allow the new owners to identify and finance restructuring initiatives. However, at the beginning of
the PESAC Reform Program it was recognized that the privatization of larger, complex and unprofitable
firms would take time. In the interim period of state ownership, the scale of financial problems faced by
these enterprises and their impact on the economy as a whole, could not be ignored. The capacity of
existing managers to carry out the required downsizing, split-ups, and search for new partners, marketing
strategies and technologies, was questionable at best. Accordingly, while immediate privatization
constituted the preferred option, the PESAC Reform Program also included a set of measures to (i)
improve the governance of SOEs through corporatization; and, (ii) isolate the large loss-making
enterprises (LLMEs) that were a heavy burden on the economy, and enforce greater financial discipline
on these enterprises through 'hardening their budget constraints' by prudent fiscal and monetary policies
at the macro level, and by introducing a 'hard payment system' based on cash payments in their
transactions.
16.   Under the reform program, all SOEs were transformed into joint stock companies, regardless of
the timing of their intended future privatization. This transformation allowed the SOEs to escape from
the direct and often interventionist tutelage of government agencies into entities that were organized to
operate increasingly on commercial terms. At the same time, the Government transferred 29 selected
LLMEs to a temporary semi-autonomous agency, the Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA),
established under the Reform Program, for a maximum period of (4) years. The reason for focusing on
large loss-making enterprises was that they comprised the bulk of the financial problems in the economy.
Dealing with the worst offenders as a group also provided considerable economies of scale. The program
for LLMEs aimed for: (i) orderly liquidation of the unviable enterprises or components; (ii)
rearrangement of the remaining components into commercial entities; and, (iii) providing the resulting
entities with reasonable chances of success by resolving their indebtedness and generally cleaning up their
balance sheets, strengthening the management and giving them clear and realistic operating programs and
targets. It was understood that solving the problems of the LLMEs would require a multi-year effort, and
continued support from IDA through consecutive adjustment operations.
17.    Passive restructuring or liquidation of 29 large loss-making state enterprises (LLMEs) was the
most difficult and challenging part of the Reform Program which encountered some initial implementation
difficulties. But the outcome was highly successful. Although these enterprises were in serious financial
difficulty, most of the factors effecting their financial performance were economy-wide, thus beyond the
control of enterprise managers. Moreover, although in financial difficulty, some of these enterprises had
the potential to be economically viable (i.e., able to produce goods and services at internationally
competitive costs and prices). Economic viability of ERRA enterprises were tested through individual
diagnostic studies, designed under the operation and financed through the Technical Assistance
Component (TAC) of the Rehabilitation Credit (Credit No.2491-KG). While the diagnostic studies were
conducted, the LLMEs were placed under a special Care and Maintenance Program (CMP). Their
access to credit and budget subsidies were cut off and most employees were placed on administrative
leave at reduced salaries. At the end of the diagnostic reviews, of the 29 enterprises, a vast majority (21)
were found to be potentially viable. These enterprises received technical and financial assistance from
ERRA to spin off their non-core activities and improve their financial performance, before privatization.



6
Of the 29 LLMEs targeted for restructuring/liquidation, 21 have been restructured, 4 liquidated and 4
left the program (see Annex A).
18.    ERRA introduced the 'hard payment system' for all enterprises under its jurisdiction as soon as
they were brought under its Care and Maintenance Program. During the time span of the PESAC
Reform Program, the total indebtedness of ERRA enterprises was reduced from Soms 562.8 million in
October 1994 to 532.6 million in March 1995 and to Soms 474.4 million in December 1995. The total
debt reduction of the amount of 88.4 million Soms should be compared with the projected debt growth
in the "without-the-project case". Enterprises have been creating negative value-added at an alarming
pace, and if this trend had not been reversed under the PESAC Reform Program, the total debt could
have reached 1,122.8 million soms by December 19958. However, there were temporary increases in
inter-enterprise arrears, and budget debts of a few enterprises. Increases in inter-enterprise debt in a few
cases were attributable to the costs of heating and hot water traditionally provided by some ERRA
enterprises to the residents of nearby towns for which they were not being reimbursed by ERRA9. This
led to an increase in their indebtedness to the Gas, Oil and Electricity companies. With the proper
implementation of ERRA principles - which require that all costs traditionally incurred by ERRA
enterprises for heating and hot water, during the winter months, would be compensated by ERRA, until
end-December 1995 -  these arrears declined steadily, and eventually disappeared.  Further debt
reduction occurred in 1996 and 1997, under successor adjustment operations.
19.  It was not the intention of the PESAC Program to treat the ERRA component as a separate
"investment" component and appraise it accordingly. However, similar to IDA investment operations,
the judgement on the ERRA Program was based on "economic" rather than "financial" analysis. The
project team was convinced that the "economic benefits" of the ERRA Program would far exceed its
"economic costs". Implementation results have substantially supported this judgement.
20. The economic gains of the program included the following: (i) the program gave "lease on life"
to 21 out of 29 financially distressed large and important enterprises which otherwise would have
remained idle, and continued to be a heavy financial and economic burden on the economy; (ii) the output
growth of these enterprises contributed in part to a reversal in GDP growth, from -26.5% in 1994 to
- 5.6% in 1995 and to 5.5% in 1996; (iii) liquidation of 4 unviable enterprises removed their financial
burden on the economy; and (iv) liquidation and passive restructuring of ERRA enterprises have released
about 35 000 workers for gainful employment in potentially more productive activities, elsewhere in the
economy.
21.     The ERRA program was financed through the use of Budget funds. To ease the Program's
impact on the Budget, the counterpart funds generated by the Credit were given to the Budget as
"additional" Budgetary resources (US$60 million equivalent or about 600 million Soms at prevailing
exchange rates). The gross budgetary cost of the ERRA Program has been reported by ERRA as 311.7
million Soms. Of this total, (a) 102.1 million Soms were spent to meet the minimum working capital
requirements of the enterprises which the viability assessments found viable or potentially viable. These
I This straight line projection is only indicative of what might have happened, in the absence of other policy
constraints. In reality, the economy and the banking system could not have afforded such a growth in enterprise debt.
9 Maili-Su Light Bulb Factory was providing heating and hot water to the entire town of Maili-Su, while Bishkek
Agricultural Machinery Plant was serving half of the city of Bishkek.



7
loans carried an interest payment, and were repayable; (b) 52.5 million Soms were transferred to the
Social Fund on behalf of the LLMEs. These liabilities would otherwise have been borne by the national
Budget; (c) 58.7 million Soms were used to finance the social services of the LLMEs, covering basically
the costs of heating and hot water; (d) 60.9 million Soms were used for severance pay, and payment of
wage arrears; (e) 28.5 million Soms were spent for paying the reduced salaries of workers placed on
administrative leave under the CMP during the period of diagnostic studies, and other ancillary costs of
the CMP; and (f) 9 million Soms were spent for technical assistance for the restructured enterprises. On
a net basis, when repayments to date of the working capital (131.4 million Soms); liquidation receipts
(24.4 million Soms); transfers to the National budget through the Social Fund (52.4 million soms); and
tax revenue generated by the re-structured ERRA enterprises (85.4 million Soms) are taken into account,
the net fiscal impact of the ERRA program has been estimated by ERRA at around -18.0 million
Soms'.
22.    The Enterprise Restructuring or the ERRA  Program  -- that is passive restructuring of
economically viable enterprises before privatization, and liquidation of others with no potential economic
viability -- created an important precedent for the Kyrgyz Republic. It demonstrated that the economy can
gain (not lose !) from liquidation of economically unviable enterprises. Moreover, the downsizing and
passive restructuring of distressed but potentially viable enterprises helped them to improve their financial
performance and allowed them to re-emerge as stronger and more productive entities. Despite initial
implementation difficulties, some political resistance to enterprise liquidation, and labor-intensiveness of
the program, the latter was kept on track and has created a new culture of enterprise adjustment as an
ongoing process of changes. The activities of ERRA have been supported under the follow-up adjustment
operations (i.e. Agricultural Privatization and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC) in FY95, and the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) in FY96).
Price And Trade Liberalization
23.    A thriving private sector is a critical ingredient of transition from a command to a market
economy. Assuring competitive markets and encouraging newly emerging private entrepreneurs to invest
and innovate would absorb redundant labor and increase dynamic efficiency. The Borrower was fully
committed to supporting the development of a strong, efficient and competitive private sector. The
continuing efforts to restore macroeconomic stability, and the exchange and trade policy reforms
introduced at the beginning of the PESAC Reform Program were highly beneficial to private sector
activity. However, the private sector in the country still faced a number of significant constraints. The
most important was the excessive State intervention in pricing and distribution.
24.    Under the Reform Program, most prices were liberalized with the removal of aU direct and
indirect price controls inherited from the command economy. As part of the PESAC Reform Program,
trade margins and direct controls on prices were abolished, effective from May, 1994 (Resolution 334
from May, 16) with the exception of bread and related products which, together with goods and services
supplied by other monopolistic enterprises, remained under control of the Anti-Monopoly Committee.
Apart from the directprice controls discussed above the State also intervened in the price system through
the imposition of compulsory state orders at fixed prices. In January 1994 the compulsory state orders
'0 ERRA argues however that when working capital loans are fully (or majority) repaid, and the remaining 6 ERRA
enterprises are sold, the net fiscal impact of the of the ERRA Program would be positive (see Annex A, the
Government's Contribution to ICR).



8
were replaced by 'state needs' whose volume for the year 1994 were published together with the
corresponding unit prices (Resolution 30 of January 24, 1994). A more significant step took place in
February 1994. The Government abolished all state needs and specified through a decree (Decree No.
50/1994) that purchases related to the state needs would be executed on a voluntary and contractual basis.
25.   On Trade Policy, all non-taniff barriers to exports and imports were removed, and export taxes
were virtually abolished. Export licenses, whose scope had been reduced already in late 1993 from 50
to 31 goods, covering some of the most important export goods or products, were abolished in February
1994. The number of goods subject to export duties were reduced from 9 to 3 (hides and skins, live and
rare animals, and silk cocoons), and the export duty rates were brought down to moderate levels (10-
30%). Under the Reform program, the number and quantity of goods subject to the interstate clearing
arrangements have also been drastically reduced. In 1995, only one clearing agreement has been signed
with Uzbekistan for provision of gas in exchange for a list of industrial goods and some cash.
Legal Refonrs
26.   The legal and regulatory component of the reform program was tailored carefully to the
implementation capacity of the Borrower and the time-frame of the quick-disbursing PESAC operation.
Under this component -- which was fully implemented -- the Government (a) issued a Presidential Decree
on establishing the right to lease land for 49 years, and clarifying the land-lease rules; (b) made
amendments to the Joint Stock Company law providing for strict duties on companies in the registration
of shares and clarifying the concept of legal personality and the difference between limited and unlimited
liability; (c) prepared a legislation on Competitive State Procurement Procedures for publicly financed
purchases and contracts; and (d) issued two sets of instructions containing detailed implementation rules
to complement the Insolvency Legislation (1994) which was enacted early on under the Reform Program.
The first set of implementation regulations were for the liquidation of banks, issued by the NBK. The
second set were for liquidation of enterprises, issued by the Prime Minister's Legal Reform Unit.
Furthermore, (e) a new comprehensive Company Law was prepared and eventually enacted in 1995.
Social Protection
27.   As part of the Social Safety Net project (SSN-FY94) and PESAC Reform Program, the Borrower
introduced major changes in its system of social protection to better target social benefits, and protect the
unemployed. While the focus of SSN has been on building up the institutional capacity of relevant
ministries and State agencies to formulate and implement social policy, PESAC supported key legal and
policy actions related to employment compensation for the country as a whole and, financing of this
compensation. More specifically, under the SSN proiect, the Borrower consolidated the former family
allowances, bread compensation, and other special payments into a uniform cash benefit (UCB) for
families with incomes below the minimum wage. Under the PESAC Reform Program the Borrower (i)
raised the employer contribution to the Employment Fund to 1.5 percent of the payroll cost; and, (ii)
introduced a 0.5 percent contribution from employees. On the divestiture of social services, mainly
heating and hot water, from 21 restructured ERRA enterprises, the Borrower decided to transfer these
to the local authorities with the exception of housing and summer camps which were privatized. The
PESAC Reform Program also sent a new, important, and clear message to all enterprises that the
provision of social services was not the responsibility of private enterprises and that they should divest
themselves from these activities. In addition, supported by PESAC counterpart funds, the Borrower made
a commitment to include annual financial provision (10 million dollar equivalent in FY94 Budget) to



9
augment the Employment Fund to provide adequate compensation for the unemployed, in the country as
a whole.
D. Implementation Record
28.   Implementation of the Policy Reforms supported by PESAC was highly satisfactory as discussed
above. The following main factors contributed to the successful implementation: (i) the Government's
strong commitment to reform objectives and the "ownership" of the Reform Program supported by the
Credit; (ii) the dedicated work of ERRA and its Management (see also the "Borrower Performance");
(iii) the quality of the project design, and in particular, the detailed advance preparation of many elements
of the policy framework (e.g., privatization policies and methods, rationale for enterprise restructuring,
and price and trade liberalization etc); and, (iv) intensive project supervision. Two factors created some
difficulties during project implementation. These were as follows: (i) Lack of a Separate Technical
Assistance (TA) Component. At the time of PESAC preparations, the country was able to attract sizeable
amounts of grant funds for TA purposes. This enabled IDA to review and modify the Technical
Assistance Component (TAC) of the Rehabilitation Credit, already in execution, to allow the Borrower
to optimize use of grant funds and to tailor TAC flexibly to the evolving needs of the country. As a
result, the TA requirements of the PESAC Program were financed through funds under the Rehabilitation
Credit. Using another IDA credit to finance the TA requirements seemed quite sensible at the time. In
implementation however this led to efficiency losses and delays in the delivery of services. On the
Government side, there were coordination difficulties between the PESAC Project Management Unit
(PMU) and the Rehabilitation Credit - Project Implementation Unit (PIU). On the Bank side, all
correspondence and procurement procedures had to be cleared by PESAC and REHAB Task Managers,
simultaneously. This "double-management" proved to be cumbersome and less than fully efficient. The
successful implementation of the ERRA Program required support from a technically powerful team of
consultants. Recruitment of this team was delayed as a result primarily of these procedures. To prevent
parallel delays in the implementation of the ERRA Program, IDA acted promptly and flexibly, and
provided two short-term Advisors to the Agency, to bridge the TA gap; (ii) Lack of Clarity in ERRA's
Operating PrinciDles. Despite intensive advance preparations, it became clear in implementation that
ERRA's Key Operating Principles were not fully understood by the Government. Therefore, at the initial
stages of the ERRA Program there were attempts in the country to direct ERRA funds to all ERRA
Enterprises regardless of whether these were found potentially viable, thus deserving financial and
technical assistance; or these were candidates for immediate closure. To avoid further misunderstandings,
ERRA's Operating Principles were reviewed and clarified during the first credit Supervision which helped
to put the ERRA's Program back on track.
E. Project Sustainability
29.   The Kyrgyz Republic has been one of the most rapidly reforming countries in the FSU. The
Borrower's commitment to reform was strong even when GDP decline was in double digits (in 1994) and
has remained firm, as evidenced by successful implementation of successor adjustment operations in the
areas of Agriculture and the Financial Sector. The sustainability of the economic reform process will in
large measure depend upon its success in more effectively meeting the needs of the country's population.
This will require renewal of growth, and expansion of incomes and employment. Recent economic data
indicate that a broad-based recovery in output is already underway. Following a cumulative decline of
about 50 percent during 1992-94, real GDP grew by 5.5 percent in 1996. The resumption of growth was
led by increases in agricultural output, and by expansion of activities in industry, trade and services. If
output and incomes are recovering, it will be much easier to complete enterprise restructuring country-



10
wide, and to mobilize the budget resources needed for social and economic infrastructure and for a more
adequate social protection. This will need a carefully balanced program so as not to lose the hard won
gains of bringing inflation under control.  Some major adjustments in relative prices are not yet
completed, particularly for public utility services to households. These adjustments in relative prices may
lead to some increases in the average level of prices. IMF is providing continuing support in these areas.
Further reforms are also underway to strengthen the legal, administrative and institutional framework
required for a dynamic market economy. Prospects for the sustainability of reforms remain strong, and
IDA and other donors are committed to assisting the Government in these efforts.
F. IDA Performance
30.   The performance of IDA was highly satisfactory. The Project was prepared in nine months and
became effective three months after Board approval. The project preparation included the preparation
of a new Concept Note on Privatization (1993), and enactment of a new Privatization Law (December
1993). This work has brought its results during implementation. Supervision was consistent and
rigorous, with early identification of serious warning signals and prompt reactions. With respect to policy
conditionalities, the Bank Group's approach was well balanced between a firm stance on core issues
(Privatization strategy, CMP, enforcement of financial discipline on loss-making enterprises, price and
trade policy reforms) and a reasonable flexibility towards the issues which needed more time and political
consensus (dismantling of wholesale monopolies, complete elimination of export duties). The follow-up
operations of the Bank Group (APEAC and FINSAC) have been prepared and delivered without delay,
thus providing continuity in support of the privatization and enterprise reform and reducing the
sustainability risks. The Credit implementation required intensive TA. The complexities of matching
PESAC TA needs with the Rehabilitation Credit program resulted in some confusion and delay in the
delivery of the team of advisors to ERRA. However, IDA acted quickly and flexibly in this area, with
support from Bank procurement advisors, and provided two short-term specialists to ERRA in a record
period of time. The quality of policy dialogue, as reflected by the quality of policy reforms supported
by the operation, was high and the operation achieved all of its goals on schedule.
G. Borrower Performance
31.   The Borrower's performance was also highly satisfactory, especially since PESAC was thefirst
adjustment operation in the Kyrgyz Republic. Cooperation was excellent during preparation, appraisal
and implementation. ERRA was managed by a highly skilled Kyrgyz Director, supported by a team of
advisors. ERRA's management was fully committed to enterprises restructuring, and has done a
remarkable job in turning around the financial performance of 21 large loss-making enterprises, following
the diagnostic studies, in less than a year. ERRA completed its mandate in 2 years, significantly earlier
than originally envisaged (i.e, 4 years). In April 1996, ERRA became part of the State Property Fund,
with a new mandate as the Agency for Direct Foreign Investment (ADFI). The SPF, and the Government
have improved substantially the privatization policies and procedures, and achieved impressive progress
in accelerating privatization. ERRA has been subject to some political pressures to soften its stance vis-a-
vis the non-viable enterprises which were candidates for closure. The Board of ERRA had an initial
misunderstanding of the CMP, and tried to provide financial assistance to all ERRA enterprises. This
was remedied by clarifying ERRA's Operating Principles during Credit supervision. Procurement of
foreign consultants also presented some difficulties. However, given the lack of the Borrower's
familiarity with IDA procurement procedures, the Borrower's performance in this area was remarkably
good. On the whole, procurement and disbursement were carried out entirely satisfactorily, and the
Credit was disbursed on schedule.



11
H. Assessment of Outcome
32.   The project's outcome was highly satisfactory, as it achieved all its major objectives, created a
new legal basis for improved privatization strategy and methods, and initiated the development of legal,
regulatory and institutional environment conducive to PSD. It has initiated and supported reforms in the
areas of price and trade liberalization, state enterprise reform and restructuring, and privatization. In its
key activities it sent clear signals to the economy that a new era was underway in which adherence to
strict financial discipline, intolerance to enterprise arrears and the application of insolvency legislation
towards unviable enterprises would be the rule.
33.   The development outcomes were significant. The reforms supported by PESAC have helped to:
privatize a significant proportion of the country's fixed assets through open and competitive methods;
re-orient enterprise sector development, from one guided by state planning and control to one guided by
the market; the project has arrested the rapid, untenable growth of arrears of the selected LLMEs; has
turned them around and thus contributed to improvement in resource allocation, productivity and real
growth in GDP. The project has helped to translate the tightening of the budgetary and fiscal policies
at the macro-level into practical adjustments at the micro-level, laid out the foundation of a new enterprise
culture in a market environment, and demonstrated ways of mitigating the social costs of adjustment in
a transitional economy.
I. Future Operations
34.   The PESAC was followed by two successive adjustment operations: Agricultural Privatization and
Enterprise Adjustment Credit (APEAC-Cr. 2750-KG, SDR 28.6 million), approved in June 1995; and,
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC- Cr.2890-KG, SDR 31.2 million), approved in June 1996.
APEAC was concluded successfully in June 1996, and the second tranche release of FINSAC is expected
in mid-1997. Most of the policy reforms initiated under PESAC have received continued support through
these operations.
35.   Under APEAC, the Kyrgyz Republic has made notable progress in reforming the agricultural
sector along market economy lines. The remaining few price controls on agricultural commodities have
been removed, and the remaining export taxes have been eliminated. About 40 percent of the total land
area subject to privatization has been distributed to individuals in the form of land-use rights. The right
to use land for 99 years has been established. Restrictions on maximum farm size were abolished, and
a revised Land Registration Act establishing a unified system was approved by the Parliament. Most state
and collective farms have been broken up into numerous small private farms. The state monopoly on
grain purchase and processing, bread production and distribution has been ended and privatization of the
state bread complex has been substantially completed. The medium and large scale agro-enterprises have
been transformed into joint stock companies and offered for sale through the mass privatization program,
two thirds of these enterprises were completely privatized in mid 1996.
36.    After successful privatization of the country's most productive assets and key reforms in leading
real sectors, it became apparent that a more stable and efficient financial sector would be essential to help
sustain macroeconomic stability, stimulate savings mobilization support enterprise recovery and
expansion, and enhance the development of the private sector.  Under FINSAC, therefore, the
Government adopted a comprehensive reform strategy for dealing with the problems of the banking
system and non-bank financial institutions. As part of FINSAC preparation, the National Bank conducted
on sight inspections of all banks and significantly strengthened its banking supervision department. It



12
closed the worst performing banks and put other weak banks under direct supervision. In 1996, as part
of the FINSAC Reform Program, the NBK adopted regulations requiring that provision be made for bad
loans, closed the two largest state-owned banks (Agroprom and Elbank), and created a temporary Debt
Resolution Agency (DEBRA) to expedite collection or write-off of non performing loans in the portfolios
of the liquidated banks. NBK also took steps to recapitalize two other large banks (Promstroi and AKB
Kyrgyzstan Bank) through private sources, and strengthen bank supervision and prudential regulations.
The National Bank also established a savings institution to preserve the payments mechanism after the
closure of bank branches in the rural areas. As part of the FINSAC reform program, a number of new
financial legislation is being prepared or enacted, while existing laws are being reviewed and revised.
As a result of these reforms, a small core of well managed banks has emerged and public confidence in
financial institutions is growing.
37.   A Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC-Cr.8521-KG) has recently
been approved by the Bank's Board (April, 1997). A Social Sector Adjustment operation (SOSAC) is
under preparation with a target Board date in FY98.
J. Key Lessons Learned
38.   The Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit has served to confirm the lessons that
have been learned earlier with other adjustment operations and also lessons that are being learned as Bank
continues to provide support to transitional economies.
39.   Goverrnent Understanding, Conunitment and Ownership of Reforms. It would be difficult
to over-emphasize the importance of Borrower understanding, ownership and comrnitment, to the success
of structural reforms. In the case of PESAC, a highly empowered PESAC Working Group led by a
Deputy Prime Minister, worked closely with IDA team in the design of the operation. During
implementation, again a highly strong monitoring team, led by the Prime Minister, oversaw the
implementation of the Reform Program. The operation had high visibility and extensive press coverage
throughout the country. Government commitment and ownership of reforms were the most important
factors contributing to its success.
40.   Importance of Timeliness. IDA's quick response to the Kyrgyz Republic's Balance of Payments
requirements during 1994/95, following the Rehabilitation Credit, won it considerable credibility with
the Government and resulted in close and productive Government-IDA relationship over the years.
PESAC was prepared in 9 months, and fully disbursed and closed in twelve months, on schedule. The
tradeoffs that often occur between timeliness and quality of operations did not happen in PESAC case.
In terms of substance, it was considered one of the "path breaking" operations in its area.
41.   Intensive Monitoring and Supervision. Intensive monitoring and supervision by the Borrower
and IDA is essential during the early phases of reforms in transitional economies when slippages may
occur. Intensive supervision by IDA is essential not just because periodic and active opposition to reforms
might occur but merely because of lack of adequate understanding and capacity on the part of the
Borrower on what needs to be done. In the case of PESAC, supervision on both sides was intense and
rigorous. The TA requirements of PESAC were financed from another IDA operation. Substantial
amount of staff input was also provided directly from headquarters in order to assist the Borrower with
the timely implementation of policy commitments.



13
42.    Role of Strategic Investors in Privatized Enterprises. When and where an enterprise was
privatized through transferring a controlling block of shares, the new owners have demonstrated their
capability to be efficient owners, contributing to the corporate governance and efficiency. It would be
important to further closely monitor and explore the privatization process in the Kyrgyz Republic and
elsewhere in transitional economies, to obtain more solid empirical evidence on the impact of various
privatization policies on the performance of privatized enterprises.
43.    Rationale for Pre-Privatization Restructuring of SOEs. PESAC experience has demonstrated
that pre-privatization restructuring, including stricter enforcement of financial discipline on selected SOEs,
would be justified on macroeconomic grounds as it would as a device to accelerate the privatization of
these enterprises. The most important results, achieved by ERRA experience were: (i) truly hardening
the budget constraints of ERRA enterprises that were in great financial difficulty; (ii) reducing their
untenable pressures on the public finance, the banking system and other enterprises; (iii) creating
mechanisms and system for enterprise restructuring, including mechanisms to deal with redundant labor
and with the divestiture of social services; and, (iv) sending clear signals to the policy-makers that the
decision to liquidate or salvage a company should be based on the entity's current or potential economic
viability. The financial performance of a financially distressed enterprise could be turned around with
technical and financial assistance, and this should be provided so long as these companies are judged to
be potentially viable. Finally, an economy can gain from liquidating potentially unviable companies.
44.    Pre-privatization restructuring also helped greatly to enable or accelerate the privatization of these
companies: 15 out of 21 restructured enterprises have already been privatized, and the remaining 6 are
currently candidates for privatization.
45.    Sector Adjustment Operations Provide Powerful Leverage and Incentives for Sector-Wide
Policy and Institutional Changes. Because SECALs are well focused and provide comprehensive
agenda for reform in a particular sector, as compared to more general adjustment operations, their impact
on a particular sector is deeper and greater than those provided by SALs or SACs. For institutional
reform or strengthening, they must always be accompanied by a parallel institution-building technical
assistance project.
06/03/97



- 14 -
PART II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Credit Implementation
Table 6: *Key Indicators for Credit Operations
Table 7: *Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: *Project Costs
Table 8B: *Project Financing
Table 9: *Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: *Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Note: * = These tables are not applicable for adjustment operations.



- 15 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantiar                       Negligible      Not aplicable
Macro Policies.                     [                O                E                 [
Sector Policies                                      0  
Financial Objectives                El                0                0                I3
Institutional Development                              l              EO                 O
Physical Objectives                  El              0                E                 [
Poverty Reduction                     l                l              E0 
Gender Issues                                        El               El 0x]
Other Social Objectives              x               E                E                  E
Environmental Objectives               l               l              El                 E
Public Sector Management           [m                E                   l               E
Private Sector Development          Ix                 l              E                  E
Other (specify)                     E                ElE                                 El
B. Proiect Sustainability             L&kLY                     Unlikely                   Uncertain
[El                       El                         El
Hfighl
C. Bank Perfoumance                  satisfactr                Satisfao                    DeficianI
Identification                                                EE
Preparation Assistance                                        El                         El
Appraisal                                                     E                          El
Supervision                          lxi                      El                         E



- 16 -
D. BorrowyS Performance              satisfacto3               Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                         [E]                       c
Implementation                                                i                          ci
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)                                     E                           El
Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfaitkd     9tiaKtow         Unsatistony       im,aZiafa$a,
lxi              0              '0                   0 



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                  Purpose             Year of Approval             Status
Following Operations:
1. REHAB                     Support for stabilization and     FY93        Completed 12/96
Rehabilitation Credit        structural reform and provide
foreign exchange for vital
imports.
2. PESAC                     Support for anew privatization     FY94        Completed 6/95
Privatization, State Enterprise    strategy (1994 - 95); state
Refonn and Restructuring, Price  enterprise reform and
and Trade Liberalization     restructuring; and price and trade
liberalization.
3. APEAC                     Support for                        FY95        Completed 6/96
Continuation of Privatization  restructuring/privatization of the
Program and Agricultural Sector  agricultural sector parastatals
Restructuring                and continuation of the 1994 -
1995 privatization program
4. FINSAC                    Support for a comprehensive        FY96        Second tranche release anticipated
Financial Sector Reform and  reform program for the financial               in mid-1997
Continuation of Privatization  sector, and support for (1996 -
Program                      1997) privatization program
S. PSRMAC                    Reform of intergovernmental        FY97        Approved 4/97, under
Reforn of Budget Preparation    finances and budgeting systems              implementation
and Inter-governmental
Finances.
6. SOSAC                     Reforms in pensions, social        FY98        Under preparation
Social Sector Adjustment Credit  assistance and sectoral financing
(to be determined)



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                           Date Planwed          Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         --------               5/93
Preparation                                         11/93                 11/93
Negotiations                                        5/94                 5/19/94
Letter of Development Policy                          ---                5/30/94
Board Presentation                                 6/29/94               6/29/94
Signing                                               -                  7/7/94
Effectiveness                                        7/94                9/22/94
First Tranche Release                                7/94                9/22/94
Midterm Review
Second Tranche Release                               3/95                6/5/95
Project Completion
Loan Closing                                       12/31/95              12/31/95
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumladve Esftmated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY1995                       FY1996
Appraisal Estimate                      30,000                        30,000
Actual                                  42,103                        21,997
Actual as % of Estimate                  140.3                         73.3
Date of Final Disbursement                                             12195
The data is from the MIS: "Net Disbursement and Charges for Selected Loans and Credit Report -
from June, 1984 to June, 1996 by Fiscal Year (as of April 30, 1997)".



Table 5: PESAC Key Indicators for Credit Implementation
POLICY OBJECIVES                 TIMMIG                        POLICY COMMITMENTS                                  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
A. PRIVATIZATION
1. Reduce the Role of the State In Economic    4/94   1. The Government to issue a Decree (a) ensuring that SPF retains  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
Activity.    Enable  the  creation  of a              ownership and management control over all shares owned by the
significant number of private enterprises for         Government in privatized enterprises, and (b) instructing SPF to sell
the introduction of a market economy.                these shares through competitive methods, no later than end-1995, in
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to IDA.
12/94    2. Government to conduct a minimum of 4 voucher auctions in at least 2  Condition met and surpassed by 12/94.
different oblasts for the shares still held by SPF in privatized JSCs,
covering a minimum of 10 such enterprises at each auction.
6/94     3. Government to amend legislative provisions to allow free exercise of  Condition met fully before Board presentation.
individual share-holding property rights by members of labor collectives.
Such new law to be applied retroactively to already privatized
enterprises where SPF holds the two-third majority of the shares
enabling it to modify the company charter.
6/94    4. Government to instruct SPF to eliminate from privatization contracts  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
already concluded, any restrictions on the range of business activities
that can be undertaken by privatized enterprises, and to revise the new
Privatization Law to the effect that no such restrictions can be placed in
any future privatization contracts.
12/93    5.  The new Concept Note and the Privatization Law will contain  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
provisions to the effect that any interested party will be able to submit
privatization proposals without any prior restriction on the acceptable
form of distribution of shares, beyond those agreed for free distribution
to managers and workers (5 percent) and for SMP (voucher) sales (25
percent).
4/94     6. Government to issue a Decree or a Resolution to ensure that price  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
will be the most important selection criteria considered to evaluate
competitive privatization proposals, with the quality of the proposed
business plan submitted by the two or three highest bidders considered,
in accordance with the weights agreed with IDA, should their price
offers be quite close.



POLICY OBJECTIVES                 TIMING                       POLICY COMMITMENTS                                   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
12/94    7. a) For enterprises still fully Government owned, SPF to implement  Conditions were met by 04/95.
three sets of privatization auctions, at least in two oblasts, and to invite
privatization proposals for a minimum of 70 enterprises included in the
1994-1995 Program.
b) SPF to submit a report to IDA indicating (i) the proportion of  Conditions met fully. SPF submitted a report
enterprises privatized  through  auctions, bidding  and competitive  on (i) firms privatized through bidding and
privatization proposals, and (ii) a plan and timetable for future  competitive proposals (343 enterprises
privatization of enterprises, satisfactory to IDA.               privatized competitively, another 143 SOEs
transferred into JSCs); and (ii) a plan and
timetable for future privatization (263 SOEs to
be privatized by the end of 1995).
8. Government to keep the public regularly informed of the progress of
the privatization program and forms of privatization used by SPF
including auction announcements and results in leading newspapers.
B. STATE ENTERPRISE REFORMS
1. Improve the governance and efficiency
of state owned enterprises (SOEs).          12/93     1. Government to issue an administrative order to the effect that the  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
legal status of all medium and large scale state owned enterprises
(SOEs), not included in the Privatization Program, must be changed into                                         o
a legal status of Joint Stock Company, with the State holding 100 percent
of the shares.
2.    Rationalize  rmancial transfers  to    6/94     2.  a)  Government to establish institutional arrangements (i.e., an  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
enterprises through the Budget.                       Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency), and provide adequate human
and financial resources, for exercising sole authority over the
management of the liquidation/restructuring program of these
enterprises, including the provision of all technical assistance and
financial resources.
b) Government to issue a decree (i) transferring an agreed number  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
of large loss-making SOEs (LLMEs) under the authority of ERRA, and
(ii) announcing that these SOEs should be put under Care and
Maintenance Program (CMP) no later than September 1, 1994 or at
Credit effectiveness, whichever date is the earlier.
c) Government to agree to exclusively channel all subsidies and Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
financial support to an agreed list of large loss-making enterprises in a
transparent way through the state budget. The size of these funds will be
limited and fixed, consistent with the macroeconomic program.



POLICY OBJECTIVES                TIMING                        POLICY COMMITMENTS                                   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
12/94    3. Government to implement the "hard payment" system for all SOEs  Condition met fully. ERRA introduced the
under the responsibility of ERRA, which should be reflected in no  "hard payment system" in October 1994. Inter-
further accumulation of inter-enterprise arrears, debt to the banking  enterprise arrears, debts to the budget and banks
system and/or the Government.                                    have declined since then with the exception of a
few firms, which increased their debts for
electricity and gas; and a few firns, which
increased their tax arrears. These new debts
were to be either compensated by ERRA, or
covered from the liquidation proceeds by the end
of 1995.
12/94    4. ERRA to complete the viability assessment of at least 3 large loss-  The condition has been met. Viability
making enterprises under its responsibility, and take a decision on the  assessments for three enterprises were
liquidation or restructuring program in respect of these enterprises.  completed by 01/95; Maili-Sai Electric Plant
(MSEL), Kyrgyz Mining and Metal Kombinat
(KMMK) and Bishkek Agricultural Machinery
(BAM) went through significant downsizing and
other passive restructuring.
C. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOMENT
(1) Price and Trade Policy Reforms
1. Government to:
1. Liberalize the price system.  Improve     4/94        a) Eliminate all restrictions on trade margins, except on bread.  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
competition and efficiency.
4/94        b) Remove direct price controls on all enterprises other than an  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
agreed list of 9 natural monopolies.
6/94        c) Submit to Parliament the Anti-monopoly legislation, satisfactory  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
to IDA, including procedures for the identification of abuses of
monopoly power.
2. Move towards a more open and liberal    6/94       1. Government to remove all export licensing requirements with the  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
trade policy.  Improve competition and                exception of an agreed limited number of goods.
efriciency.
4/94     2. Government to remove all export taxes except on (9) items.    Conditions met fully before Board presentation.



POLICY OBJECTIVES                TIMING                        POLICY COMMITMENTS                                   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
6/94     3.  Government to repeal existing legislation on state-orders and  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
domestic supply contracts.
12/94    4. Government to continue to implement its policy of not imposing any  Conditions met fully on 12/94.
compulsory purchase orders.
12/94    5. Government to take all necessary measures on its part to reduce the  The number and quantity of goods subject to the
coverage of its bilateral clearing arrangements with the view of phasing  clearing agreements have been drastically
them out completely.                                             reduced. In 1995, only one clearing agreement
has been signed with Uzbekistan for provision of
gas in exchange for a list of industrial goods and
some cash. The Borrower remains committed to
complete elimination of these agreements.
(2) Legal and Regulatory Reforms
12/93    1. Government to submit to legislature the draft insolvency legislation.   Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
4/94     2. Government to establish, by a decree of the President or the Prime  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
Minister, a central Legal Reform Unit to coordinate, inter alia, legal
activities required under PESAC Reform Program.
6/94     3. Government to prepare an ACTION PLAN, which will set out the  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
steps to be taken, including timetable, to amend/enact the required
legislation and regulatory measures to liberalize private sector activities,
and foster its development, with priority given to the following actions:
12/94        a) to clarify the rights of lease holders; to simplify land-lease rules;  Conditions met fully on 12/94.
and to facilitate transfer of lease and similar user rights.
12/94        b) to impose stricter duties on companies in the registration of  Conditions met fully on 12/94.
shares; to clarify the concept of legal personality and the difference
between limited and unlimited liability.
c) to allow for the registration in a Central Registrar with district
offices of security rights by lease or pledge.
12/94        d) to prepare legislation/decree on Competitive State Procurement  Conditions met fully on 12/94.
Procedures for publicly financed purchases and contracts.
12/94    4. Government to prepare a comprehensive Company Law for review   The draft was submitted by May 1995. The
with IDA.                                                        Borrower intended to revise the draft by the end
of 1995. The Company Law was enacted in
1996.



POLICY OBJECTIVES                  TIMING                        POLICY COMMITMENTS                                    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
12/94    5.   Government to prepare a report on progress made on the  The report was submitted on 05/12/95. The
implementation of the legislative action plan and a timetable for further  drafts of the following laws (or amendments of
legal reform activities, satisfactory to IDA.                      laws) have been prepared: (i) Law on Lease; (ii)
several decrees on share rights and registrations
(Nos. 229, 300, 301); (iii) Law on Collateral;
(iv) Law on Procurement; and (v) two sets of
instructions with rules for the insolvency of
banks and enterprises respectively. By the end
of 1995, the Borrower intended to (a) adopt the
drafts above; (b) prepare the new Civil Code
(first part); and (c) to clarify the rights to land
and their transferability.
(3) Institutional Reforms
6/94     1. Government to prepare and submit to IDA for discussion its proposal  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
for the de-monopolization and privatization of the Bread Complex.
12/94    2.  Government to (a) de-monopolize and privatize 4 state owned  Four wholesale trade enterprises in the industrial
enterprises  in  the   wholesale  trade   area   (Kyrgyzailtorg,  sector were segmented and privatized through
Kyrgyzmashelectrotorg, Kyrgyzrasnosbyt, and Metalloptorg), and (b)  coupon and cash auctions. Three holding        s
de-monopolize 3 holding companies, and privatize 10 large trucking  companies under the Ministry of Transport were
enterprises in the transport sector.                               abolished by Decree No. 283 of 11/4/94. The 10
large trucking enterprises have been offered for
privatization.
3. Government to conduct organizational assessment of the Ministry of
Industry and Trade consistent with its changing role and responsibilities.
D. SOCIA& SAhEETY NEI
1.   Minimize negative social effects of               1. Government to plan orderly divestiture of housing and social services
enterprise restructuring and unemployment.             from enterprises:
a)  Develop a strategy for the divestiture of social assets from   Conditions met fully before 6/95 release.
enterprises.
b) Design a demonstration program, including costs and financing  Conditions met fully before 6/95 release.
arrangements, in two oblasts in support of divestiture of the housing and
other social services provided by the enterprises which are under the
responsibility of ERRA.



POLICY OBJECTIVES                 TIMING                        POLICY COMMITMENTS                                   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
6/94     2. Government to reduce liability of employers for funding severance  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
pay, under the Employment Law, for laid-off workers.
6/94     3. Government to introduce:
a) a compressed range of unemployment benefits;               Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
12/94        b) legislation which provides for a 0.5 % employee contribution to  Conditions met fully before Board presentation.
the Employment Fund.



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenan                                         Compliance
Section 3.01
(a) The Borrower and the Association shall from   Action carried out satisfactorily.
time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the  Action carried out satisfactorily.
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.2
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Procurement carried out satisfactorily.
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03
(a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be Action carried out satisfactorily.
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:                          Action carried out satisfactorily.
(i) have the records and accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.



- 26 -
Covenant                                         Compliancc
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which  PESAC audit was completed by an International
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made  Auditing Firm in April, 1997.
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders,  invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors  as  to  whether  the  statements  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.



- 27 -
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned                      Revised                      Actual
Weeks            US S        Weeks          USS           Weeks         US$
_000                      '000                        '000
Through Appraisal            63.0           245.7         90.3         408.1          73.4         317.8
Appraisal - Board            27.0           105.3         38.7          174.9         31.5         136.3
Board - Effectiveness        0.0             0.0          0.0           0.0            3.6          9.9
Supervision                  43.3           156.2         60.2         295.2          77.2         329.9
Completion                   10.0           39.0
Total                        143.3          546.2         189.2         878.2         185.7        793.9
Table 13: IDA Resources: Misions
Performmnce RAbgn
No. of   Days in  Specialized Staff    Implanen-  Develop-   Types
Month/Year  Persons    Field   Skills Represented   tation    ment       of
Status     Objectives  Problems
Preparation            05/93        12       20    TIE/B/L/P
Pre-Apprsisal           10/93       10       20    T/E/B/L/P
Appraisal              03/94        9        29     T/E/B/P/Pr/L
Board Approval
through Effectiveness  06/94        3        21     T/P/L
Supervision I           11/94       5        26    T/P/E/L              S            S           T
Supervision 11         03/95        5        28    T/P/E/L              S           HS
Completion*            04/97         1        3     TIE                 HS           HS
Performance Rating:     I - Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems
Specialization:
B       -       Banking Specialist
E       -       Economist
En      -       Environment Specialist
F       -       Financial Specialist
L       -       Lawyer
P       -       Privatization Specialist
Pr      -       Procurement Specialist
T       -       Task Manager
Types of Problems: F - Financial; T - Technical; M - Managerial; P - Policy-based
PESAC audit was completed by an International Auditing Firm in April, 1997.



- 28 -
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
June 13, 1997
Mr. M. Rathnam,
Resident Represeatidec
of the World Bank Mission in
the Kyrgyz Republic
Dear Mr. Michael S. V. Rathnam,
Draft Completion Report on implementation of the Private Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit, in general. sufficiently reflects the results of achievemet of
tasks and objectives.
It should be noted, that large industial entpises of the country had been
reformed and transferred to work in the conditions of a market economy within the
framework of this projw. Industral enterprises had been restructured, viable
enterprses had been separated to renew production.
Credit funds, disbursed within the PESAC project allowed to reach
signiricant production increase in the enterprises, maintain work positions and
solve issues, related to the social protection of released employees. Budget receipts
have increased, debt to thu Social Fwund has decreased or paid out, and repayment
of received credit resources has starte.
in generaL the-msults of implementation of the PESAC program can be
assessed as pos01ive.
Yours Sincerely,
First Vice Prime Minister                       K Naaaev



- 29 -
KbiPrb13                                    1nPABHTEAbCTBO
PECIIYBJIHKACblHIbH                                      KbiPrbl3CKOa
OKMGTY                                          PECHYBJiH(H
z;lit4tt.101..~ oo v+r Nt Ili. 61,1LiiK1K. AOA  IlI'ApIIITI::R3c:riI
._._. ..  _                                                         ~. ,- ...P M . "
*                                  5 ,CI5.~3OIPi6iu
...  _. .-tt   o 7 ...          rocao~gomM. Puui.
Vuaugaeama rocaim. Manw C.B.PSmM?
t, Mc3  nO1ArOTOBDCHNOM nPOCKT@ aOKymGftTh4 0 3a3sPWUCeH  pcaA3aULXn
I-> AJv;AI.B 4*VYMII S*~ ' r'-r-iX ~- -t~r  r~-,-----r~e--~
,v a peanxO3auNi HocTa5ncAtibix taene x 3a.Aaq.
- " leo6aHeo6ueroto 0Uerw. 'rro a pautax pcwutSauxm paccmupBaemoro azpoesra
Gw 6bno  ocymc=Tne)4o  pcoopmppoamHHe xpyaRix npoaunMirmb   upenpNp7it
_ ,1  ppcny'5j1&HK  KX nopeopiemTalmx aa p&6ory B ycAOBUoX pwtolwhdx OTuOmeCiHl. Swn
. r  npo0cAcmaL   pecTpy rypn3OOX UpoMu fe              aPIpeAnpUwI.   azwAUcw
;fXIMCHeCInoco6mme npoH3BoACTDa, ia KOT29TOphX l3026110lAICHO ITpOH3O,0CThO.
4        Hcno on3oatrxe si3ah lUiLX 3Jm xZ paxax nporpaMmiA  PESAC  KPGANTHbIX
',P  cypcD no3NBOflHfO QOeCt]eCqTh CylUeCTM86RhIR pOLw  npUWJrhocrSa flpOAyXUXM H1a
>. ^  npCUaIpHSTMRX.   COXpUHHTb pa60hsM  MCCTa, pC aKTb   onpoc  ur)s-,         c
3   COsAl;a,oi -3&UwToU uwcso60o)AeMmux paftTKwocOa. ywmlmwiZJmICk nocTyuwims b
S    on 6aonxer  Culm2nfl#Cb, A P60 noznocrbio  TIXBUMlPOAUa  38Anea4eHOCT- nepea
" *  CoCUanbKbIu (0IHA0M, Hu8lThra swnaTrU Iwtymie x XpCAMTNuX p=ypcos
e   B LYJOM pOyAbTaTrbl ptlla=aumH nporpau  PESAC mOxHO    OuenuTi
17OJROXtHTCJpbbH.
C YOSUCIHflI,
flepsw nAKe-npelwpmi4owcrp                                 K.Hakha



30 -                               Annex A
Page 1 of 6
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISZ SECTOR AD.JUSTMENT CREDIT
(PRSAC)
Project implementation Asue.soMnt
Prepared By
THS GOVERNMNT OF lYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Introduction
1.    Following its independence 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic was confronted with
highly complicated problems. The dissolution of the Soviet Union resulted in the
termination of fiscal transfers from the Union's budget.  Large increases in
import prices of oil and gas, raw materials for industrial production led to the
decline of volume of inter-republican trade to 40 % of its level in 1990, and
decline in output. During 1990-1994 output declined by about 45 1 in agriculture
and by more than 60 % in industry. The GDP in 1994 was estimated to have fallen
by 26,5 1 in real terms compared to its 1991 level. The decline in economic
activity led to sharp decline of the standard of living, increase in unemployment
which rose from about 1 e in 1992 to nearly 9 e in 1994.
2.    Despite these adverse developments Kyrgyz Republic introduced its national
currency and adopted a large-scale stabilization program which was successfully
implemented at the initial stage. Credit expansion and budget deficit were kept
within the program limits, and there was a downward trend of inflation. The
budget deficit was reduced from 14 e of GDP in 1992 to about 8.7% in 1993.
3.    Notwithstanding the progress in fiscal policy, the Government has not been
able to sustain tight monetary control, because of lack of progress in
restructuring the enterprise sector. Despite loss of markets, many enterprises
have continued producing for inventories and avoided labor shedding. Unviable
enterprises have managed to survive through accumulating arrears to suppliers,
banks, budget and their own employees. The pressures on the Government mounted,
finally leading to relaxation of monetary control. The Government was aware that
one of the required conditions for macroeconomic stabilization would be a reform
on a micro economy level, the reform of the enterprise sector. To achieve these
goals it was required to improve privatization efforts, to improve incentives
for the recovery and expansion of agricultural and industrial exports, continued
exchange and trade liberalization, to focus most enviable enterprises under the
Large Loss-making Enterprises Restructuring or Liquidation Program.  Further
delays in the implementation of the above measures could have resulted in the
escalation of pitfalls in a transitional economy.
Objectives
4.    The objectives of the Government under the PESAC Program was to (1) change
the quality of the privatization process based on the use of competitive and
transparent methods; (2) to reduce economic and financial burden of large loss-
making state owned enterprises through their liquidation or passive
restructuring; (3) to improve legal and regulatory framework for private sector
development, elimination of barriers for export development; and, (4) to mitigate
the social burden of adjustment.



-31-                                 AnnexA
Page 2 of 6
Privatization
s.    Implementation of the PESAC Program began in 1994. The goals set for
privatization were successfully fulfilled within the framework of the project.
With the aid of a group of consultants who were involved in preparation of the
project, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic developed a new Conceptual Plan
for Privatization (1993), drafted a new Law on De-nationalization and
Privatization of State Property in the Kyrgyz Republic, and prepared a
Privatization Program for 1994-1995.
6.    Prior  to  the  PESAC  Program,  the  privatization  strategy  consisted
essentially of transferring large blocks of shares in enterprises undergoing
privatization to the managers and employees of these enterprises. This method
did not lead to a significant improvement in the performance of the enterprises.
The goal was to make privatization methods more open and competitive, and for
them to promote greater economic efficiency and bring in broader segments of the
population. The new approach was characterized by:
* free exercise of shareholders' rights by individuals;
* a requirement that part of the shares in privatized enterprises be sold
at auction;
* systematic application of competitive privatization methods to all
categories of enterprises.
7.    Under the new strategy, 5 percent of the shares in medium-sized and large
enterprises were to be transferred to the labor collectives free of charge; 25
percent of the shares were to be sold at coupon auctions; and, the remaining
shares (up to 70 percent) must be sold through competitive bids. Under the PESAC
Program, the following goals were set for the State Property Fund (SPF):
* hold at least 4 coupon auctions in at least 2 provinces for the purpose
of selling shares in previously privatized enterprises;
* sell shares in at least 10 enterprises at every auction through
competitive bids;
* give interested parties the opportunity to submit proposals for the
privatization of 70 enterprises (or more), which are entirely under
state ownership;
* demonopolization and privatization of 4 large enterprises in wholesale
trade (Kyrgyzailkomok, Kyrgyzmashelektrooptorg, Kyrgyzraznooptorg, and
Kyrgyzmetallooptorg) and in the industrial sector;
* demonopolization of 3 industrial holding companies;
* privatization of 10 large transportation enterprises in the
transportation sector.
8.    All  of  the  goals  were  achieved  in  the  course  of  the  project's
implementation. By November 1994, the State Property Fund had privatized through
open  auctions  and  competitive  bids  29  enterprises  in  3  different
provinces-enterprises which had been entirely under state ownership. By the
middle of April 1995 the Kyrgyz Republic State Property Fund had offered for
privatization 73 medium-sized and large enterprises included in the privatization
program for 1994-1995, following the plan of competitive privatization proposals
(the price for an enterprise was established on the basis of the coupon auction
rate or market rate) and competitions for strategic investors, which is an
improved version (in which the price is the only criterion for selecting the
winning bid).
9.    Commission fees for the evaluation of proposals were eliminated, and review
of the business plan was also eliminated from the selection process. The Kyrgyz
Republic State Property Fund held 55 coupon auctions in 6 different provinces,
at which 265 republican and regional enterprises, in which the state' s share of



- 32 -
Page 3 of 6
stocks still belonged to the State Property Committee, were offered for sale. A
total of 437 million coupon points and 12,180 offers were submitted, reflecting
the participation of 364,000 people who used their coupons directly or
indirectly, through investment funds. By the end of December 1994 investment
funds had exchanged for shares 61 percent of the total number of points used in
coupon auctions.
10.   Four large wholesale trade enterprises were broken up and privatized,
primarily through coupon and monetary auctions. In 1995, 25 percent of the shares
in Kyrgyzmashelektrooptorg and Kyrgyzmetallooptorg, which were still under the
ownership of the Kyrgyz Republic State Property Committee, were sold.
11.   Three holding  companies  were  liquidated,  which had been under  the
management of the Ministry of Transportation (Kyrgyzavtotrans, Kyrgyzzhol,
Kyrgyzavtoremprom). Seventeen large transportation enterprises were offered for
privatization following the plan of competitive privatization proposals. More
than 53 percent of all state-owned fixed assets had been privatized in part or
in their entirety at the time the second tranche of the PESAC project was issued.
At the conclusion of the PESAC project, the privatization program was supported
by subsequent IDA projects: APEAC - credit for the privatization and reform of
agricultural enterprises, which was approved in June 1995 and successfully
completed in June 1996; FINSAC - credit for reform of the financial sector, which
was approved in June 1996; disbursement of the second tranche is expected in mid-
1997.
12.   A large number of the strategic reforms which were initiated within the
framework of PESAC were continued as part of these projects. As a result, in
February 1997 all commercially viable small-scale enterprises were fully
privatized; of the 1,300 medium-sized and large enterprises that were included
in the mass privatization program, 993 were offered for sale through coupon
auctions; of them, 804 were privatized in full or for the most part.
13.   Thus, as a result of the successful implementation of the reform program
within the framework of PESAC, more effective and stable mechanisms were created
for continuation of the process of privatization, reform, and organization of
enterprises. The PESAC experience demonstrated that reorganization in advance of
privatization and tighter financial discipline on a number of state enterprises
can be justified from a macroeconomic standpoint, and also as a useful mechanism
to accelerate the privatization of these enterprises. This experience also showed
that technical and financial assistance may be necessary for privatized
enterprises who do not have financial and technical capacity to re-structure
their enterprises.
14.   Despite successes in implementation of the Program, it must be noted that
in the process of liquidating the assets of insolvent enterprises, there was a
perception among the public that the appraised value of these assets was
underestimated. The State Property Fund believes, however, that one of the
results of the Program's implementation is that assets were sold at realistic
market prices and that the sale demonstrated the real attractiveness of the
enterprises for potential investors.
15.   The results of the Program were satisfactory, on the whole, since all of
the main goals of the PESAC project were met. The project's preparation,
disbursement, and implementation were carried out according to schedule.
Restructuring and Liquidation of Loas-making Enterprises
16.   Passive  restructuring or  liquidation of 29  large  loss-making  state
enterprises (LLMEs) with a total number of workers about 52 thousand was the
most difficult and challenging part of the Reform Program. Restructuring or



- 33 -                                nnex A
Page 4 of 6
liquidation of these enterprises should have made significant impact on the
rehabilitation of the economy in general. These enterprises were selected based
on their importance to the economy as a whole, and on the degree of their
indebtedness.
17.   The State Commission for the Reorganization and Liquidation of Enterprises
chaired by the Prime-Minister largely contributed to the effective implementation
of this program. Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA) was its
temporary, and modestly staffed executive agency. During 1,5 years ERRA was
assisted by a group of foreign advisers.
18.   The work program of ERRA was divided into several stages;
1) express-diagnostic studies of enterprises and evaluation of their
ability to pay current expenses;
2) on the basis of express diagnostic studies a judgement was made on the
lines of production that were loss-making, and others that seemed
profitable;
3) organization of the program of 'care and maintenance' for all
enterprises under which the operations of loss-making enterprises were
stopped.
4) introduction of 'hard payment system' to reduce the increase of their
total debt;
S) individual diagnostic studies, conducted by foreign experts, to
determine the potential viability of these enterprises. These diagnostic
studies have helped to determine whether these enterprises should be
restructured or liquidated;
6) restructuring or liquidation of enterprises;
7) selling of restructured enterprises;
h) selling of the assets of enterprises under liquidation;
8) use of funds received as a result of selling restructured enterprises
or enterprises under liquidation to meet the claims of the creditors.
19.   ERRA Program has been on the whole completed by now. As opposed to initial
expectations that only 8-10 enterprises would be determined as viable , 21 out
of 29 enterprises were found to be potentially viable. ERRA carried out the
restructuring of 21 enterprises, liquidation of 4 and removed 4 enterprises from
the program for different reasons. From restructured enterprises, 13 enterprises
were sold through competitive bids and without minimum price, in the process of
restructuring one of those enterprises was divided into two and sold as two
separate entities. One of the enterprises that was a candidate for liquidation
was sold through competitive bids bringing the total number of enterprises that
were privatized to 15.   The remaining six enterprises are candidates for
privatization. The Government is still hopeful that such large-scale enterprises
as Maili-Su light bulb factory, Hajdarkan mercury kombinat, Osh textile factory,
'Crystal', Tash-komur semi-conductors plant could be sold through tenders for
strategic investors.
20.   The total amount of  311,668 mln.  som. was spent to achieve the goals of
the program. However, when assessing financial impact of the program one should
keep in mind the following:
1) 102,113 mln.som was provided to increase the working capital of the
restructured enterprises. These funds are to be repaid. Considering the
risk on non-repayment of a certain part of sub-credits, we still hope that
the majority of the funds provided would be reimbursed.
2) As a result of the selling of restructured enterprises and liquidation
of their assets creditors have by now received about 39, 634 mln. som, out
of which 2,4 mln. was handed over to the Budget and to the Social Fund;
3) ERRA has paid to the Social Fund  52, 437 mln. soma on behalf of



- 34 -                                Annex A
Page 5 of 6
enterprises. Due to the fact that the enterprises were unable to pay this
amount these costs in any case should have become a burden to the budget,
it seems to be rather a budgetary transfer than actual costs of the
enterprise restructuring. The same goes for the funds in the amount of
58,730 mln.som used for the financing of social assets, which should be
paid from the regional budgets, but not by enterprises;
4) When included in the Program many enterprises were unable to pay taxes,
salaries, provide payments to the social fund or terminated their
operational activities and became tax free. After restructuring the
majority of enterprises became operational and started to pay taxes.
After restructuring the enterprises paid taxes to the budget in the amount
of 85,376 mln.soms, and to the Social Fund 27,908 mln.soms. The workers of
theses enterprises received their wages in the amount of 69,901 mln. soms.
These funds, although they do not reflect direct reimbursement of funds
spent for the program, but they were directly used for the benefit of
local administrations, national budget and the social fund. It must be
kept in mind that in the opposite case the Government should have paid
severance payment, unemployment benefits, and pay for creating new jobs.
21.   The public sector would receive 324,932 mln.soms back as a result of
repayment of working capital loans, proceeds received after selling of enterprise
assets, tax funds and social fund allocation, salaries. Considering the expenses
for social sector and repayment of the debt of enterprises to the social fund
which may be considered as internal government transfers the total amount of
funds under to program would be equal to about 436,099.
22.   Naturally certain difficulties arose in the process of implementation of
this large-scale program. To be specific, frequently occurred legal problems, a
conflict between new methods of work and existing legislation.   Regional
administrations interfered in the operational activities of enterprises or
refused to take their social assets.
23.   One of the major problems was non-provision of funds in the critical time
for restructured enterprises due to the substantial budget deficit. Many
enterprises did not get all the required working capital funds.  It created
difficulties for several restructured enterprises and increased their bankruptcy
risk after restructuring.
24.   Unwillingness to start liquidation of enterprises was typical for the Board
of directors of the State Commission. In a few cases, initial misunderstanding
and provision of financial support to enterprises that were not yet judged to be
potentially viable allowed these enterprises to survive for some time, before
liquidation.
25.   Unfortunately, not every single enterprise selected for the restructuring
program was large-scale and of key importance. This in a certain way reduced
efficiency and impact of the actions on the economic situation in the Republic
in general. Several small-scale enterprises (Kok-Zhangak garment factory, Talas
footwear factory) which could have been easily privatized or liquidated, avoiding
social consequences and substantial expenditures. Moreover, in the process of
program implementation, some large-scale enterprises were removed from the
program which were not always justified.
26.   Sales of enterprises without threshold minimum prices caused negative
public reaction. In the public opinion it was perceived that many of the state-
owned enterprises were sold very cheaply.



- 35A- nnex A
Page 6 of 6
Price And Trade Liberalization
27.   Under the Reform Program, most prices were fully liberalized.  Price
controls remains for electricity, heat and public services.  Moreover, there
exist price controls of the products produced by natural monopolies through
making them declare projected prices and tariffs not to allow blowing of prices.
The imposition of compulsory state orders at fixed prices was fully abolished.
28.   Under the Reform program, the number and quantity of goods subject to the
interstate clearing arrangements have also been reduced.   Import and export
quotas were abolished, import and export licensing for most of the goods have
been removed. Currently all imported goods are subject to 10 customs duties.
Legal Reforms
29.   Under the legal and regulatory component of the reform program a Center of
Legal Reforms was established at the Office of the President of Kyrgyz Republic;
a number of new draft laws was prepared which have improved the environment for
establishing and developing of the private sector. This new legislation included
Bankruptcy law and Company law; amendments were made to the Lease Law and State
Procurement law.
Social Protection
30.  Social assets from almost all enterprises included in the ERRA Program were
transferred to the local authorities or privatized.
Auue.-mnt of Outcome
31.   The project's  outcome was on the whole quite satisfactory, as it has
achieved all its major objectives. Progress has been made in developing a new
legal basis for reforms, quality of privatization process has improved,
significant actions have been taken in the areas of price and trade
liberalization.
32. .Substantial changes have been made in the approaches to the implementation
of government's policy in the enterprise sector. The emphasis in enterprise
policy was shifted to adherence to strict financial discipline, restructuring
of viable enterprises and liquidation of loss making entities. The program
contributed to creating a new culture and understanding that the process of
enterprise restructuring and liquidation is a continuous process of renovation.
of industry and adjustment to the changing external conditions.
33.   The Government is fully satisfied with IDA performance in the process of
Program implementation. The Credit was disbursed according to the schedule; IDA
and the Government have built constructive relations which highly contributed to
the successful outcome of the Program.
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic
May 27, 1997



- 36 -
ERRA ENTZRPRISES
Enterprises That Have Been Restructured
1.    Maili Su Light Bulb Factory          12.   Tokma Cannery*
2.    Haidarkan Mercury Mine               13.   Tokmak Meat
3.    Osh Cotton (Tekstil'shik)            14.   Jalal-Abad Foundry*
4.    Task-Komur Semiconductor Plant       15.   Kyzyl-Kaya Machinery*
5.    Almaluyk Coal Mine*                  16.   Kok-Jangak Sewing Factory*
6.    Kyzyl-Kaya Coal Mine*                17.   Bishkek Kenaf*
7.    Sulykta Coal Mine*                   18.   Sokuluk Trade Machinery*
8.    Tash-Komur Coal Mine                 19.   Ivanovsky Construction Co.*
9.    Tegenek Mine*                        20.   Bishkek Furniture Factory*
10.   Akjibek Silk Factory*                21.   Talas Shoe Factory*
11.   Minkush Orgtechnica*
Note: * = Already Privatized
Enterprises That Have Been Li_uidated
1.    Bishkek Agricultural Machinery Plant
2.    Naker Joint Stock Company
3.    Bishkek Glass Factory
4.    Kadji-Sai Electrical Technik
Enterprises That Left The Program
1.    Kyrgyz Metallurgical and Mining Kombinat
2.    Kant Cement Factory
3.    Maili-Su Insulation Plant
4.    Ilbirs Silk Factory



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 12
- 37 -                   Wilre a . ECAVP
FROM: Presidem
XYRGYZ REPUBLIC - Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC)
(Credit No. 2639-KG)
Release of Second Tranche
Aiched is a President's Memorandum  ntided 'Kyryz Republic - Prvadatio and
Enterprie Sector Adjustren Credit (PESAC) - Credit No. 2639-KG   Reles of Second
Tranch.m and dated June 2, 1995.
h Borrower has made siificat progress in the linp!meamonu of the Prizadon
and Enrprse Sector Adjustment Progpm supported by PESAC, and met all of th requlrw 
fr the release of the second tAmche set our In dte Dvelopmt Credit Ageemnt  The
Borrower has teref  been advised of the avilabiUity of the second ranche of SDR 21.25
mion (USS30 mMion equivalent).
Quesdons on this document may be referred to Ms. F. Aynm Sumer, extsion 34208.
Execuve Dironrs and Altemazes
Offkc of the Preidet
Senior Mmg.nnt, Bank, IFC and MJGA



U IN
4I0                                                Pim
iIiiIa                              II
JIHIJI !"iIIiI I!114p
-                             MR
I ii2iiiiIIi!
g !
i,i uL1               II
iII
154
4



ANNEX N
Page 3 of 12
- 39 -
shareholding rights, and amend the legal context for rights already transferred. Solving the poblem  of
large loss-making enterprises was expected to help reduce their burden on the budget, the banking system,
other viable enterprises, and also contribute greatly to the stabilization objective. These enterprise-lveL
adjusment were complemented by policy and regulatory reforms to remove policy-inuced and
regatory constinu to eterprise efficiency, and help create a policy environment in whih privatr
sector could flourish.
3.           The Credit was appraised in March 1994, and approved by the Board on June29, [994.
The Crodi Agrement wA  signed on July 7, 1994, and becam  effeaie, with rles ofthe fist trancha
of SDR 21.25 milion (JSS30 mMiion equivalet), on Septembr 22, 1994. The ra uanche was SAy
disbure on Fbxuary 7. 1995. A Country Asssace Strate  for th Kyrg  Remblic was preted
to the Board on May 13, 1993 along with the Rehabilitation Credi (Crait No. 2491-KG.
IL RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVEOPMENTS
4.           Since i Independence (1991), the Xyrgyz Rpublc hs been cofontd wit h r
advese drcum ces, o      donol of the Borwer. The dsolutionf the Soviet Unionresulted
n th tmaon of fiscal tn     fro  Moscow whichu   199, account  foabr abt 11 pent of
GDP. Im additon, the Kyrgz Republc xpeienced a larp deteoradon In terms of tade by abot 40
percnt over the fr two yea  primarily due to large Increases In Iport pice of oil and natural as.
This, In addition to the disruption of the Interreublican made and payments system led to a drac
decline In the volum  of lao to about 40 per   of its lev  n 1990, and conbted to mador decin
In output Sinc  990, ral output ha dec      by about 45 pece  In Agrkoan and by more dm 60
pereint In Industry. The recoaded GDP In 1994 Is estimated to have 6e by 26  pect im tea um,
bringin te levwe ofesmatedinmeolessta50perctof its 1991 ll. The contiuing ded1
In         actvity hs led to a sap hnase In   mwhh re frop about 1 peret Ia
199 so neary 9 percen at present nduftdon the nmber of people who hav been pu on aliInlued
leave. Depiedteadvers d-evelom , theBorower haspressdaead Ish the reforpt pocessi ad
made sinficant progress; In adeing gee finanil stbily ad eimizatigsawke p
nherked from the former command owomy.
5.           Progres on StaIlIzazom.   The Xyrgyz autorities  assued fhO corol ovw
maNcroeconoic polices with the Itoduction of the nsion  curec, the Son. it Kay IM. and
ebaed on a stabliton prom sppote by a stud-by  raneme  fom the DO  ad access l
Sysmic Truormatio  Faciadty Mr).  In July 1994, to DIP apod a  r  yewr ES
rangemen In support of the Borowes medum-su tabilm       nd edbu     prm, ledbyd*
xone  and a org  by a strn rvene ehancing ebet  ld"U  rwdlw une the  a  lew
mneme  wa successMdly caonuded on Marc 31, 1995. DIscu o an curedy udwA* a
second-year aangeme   Duri  1994, depost and credIt les raw was liberized, dictd wadL
were discontimed, refinance credit actions weo taporly susedd, and domest bank ftancg
of ta budget deficit was dhaply curtailed. The tight monstazy st_a succed In biging mIDics
down  around 3 pecnt pe moh In th  second hlf of 1994, hoaot 23 peIct I I In. late pat
of 193. The Bowr ha  lso establ ed a fogp ecba    anuctionmataftaftechap Z.
*d a flly Ulbad cchang rege wit no rescdons on cren or copl acount  sa
Mch 1995, the Soam becmo  ly convertble folowing the Borowers co lacwith d  pwisin
of ArleVI of   Addls of AgemtoftheDI. Withshen pidtgeinof ocredit,r  iere
rte Increased to ove 200 pecnt In ral terms by Auut 1994K,  d stized arund 50 pereat
pree*  Increasingly hard budget consaint on te entpds seo= tdtoog tde scerem of bod
mao and  mcoconomc policie weededout unalable production, particuladly In the Inds    mr..



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 12
- 40 -
The massive credit squeeze, bowever, combined with insolvency and illiquidity of major commercial
banks have also 3haiply reduced credit availability to many deserving viable enterprises. ln early 1995,
remoneizaton of the economy has begun.  Despite success In reducing inflation, there remains
uncertainty over future inflation expectations and movements. Given that the fundamental inflationary
pressures in 1993 came from the central bank financing of budget deficit, strong control of money and
liquidity in the economy, and non-inflationary ways of deficit financing wiU remain vital for financial
stability. The Borrower also believes that stabilization eff&rts can not be sustined without structural
reforms, and visible signs of economic recovery. It therefore remains committed to the objectives of
structral tansormai
6.           FIscaL  Performance.  Ihe Borrower has also demonstrad its commitmen  to
stabilization on the fiscal side, and managed to reduce the budget deicit from about 14 peet of GDP
in 1993 to around 10 percent in 1994. While the Borrower was able to limit wage increases and
streamlhe generous welfare expenditures, some essential current and capital expendtes had to be cut
drastically, to comnste for a precipitous decline in tax revenue. Initially, the continuous fail in tax
revenue was mainly due to a multitude of tax exemptions and the weakness In ax administration.
Despite atempts to address these issues, however, tax receipts have continued to fall as a result of
continued erosion in ino=me and tax base, Increased barter trade activity, and inadequat tax shaing
arrangements between cental and local governments. In 1994, over 80 percent of the budget deficit was
fnacd by foreign savings. The magnitude of necessary fiscal adjustment remains large. Bringing fiscal
deficits from around 10-12 percent of GDP to around 3-4 petent, can only be acheved grdually a the
fiscal accounts condnue to be burdened by social costs of masition on the epediture side. The scope
for improved tax collection will condnue to be constrind by insdutional waknees and inherent
difficulties In axing private activity in agriculture and iniormal seon. In conseqn, during the
tasiion period the Byrsyz Republic will need to rely largely on external resources foe fncing the
budgae deficis to avoid Inlaotinary financing through domestic bank crodit.  Consoliation of
stabilization wi require output recovery, and a thorough reform of the fisc  system with a view to
Improving tax performce and rationalizing expendiu. The Borrower is taling steps towards this
end. In recent months, a new personal income tax was inoduced, and excise taxes and customs
surcharges on non-PSU impots were rationalized. The Borrower has also prepared a new tax code which
overhauls the tax regime, VAT In particular. The current system of intergovernmental finances will also
need to be modified to ensure fiscal consolidation.
7.           Balance of Payments Performance. The sharp conucdon In exten  tade with the
FSU countries has continued in 1994. Non-eergy exports and Imports to the FSU regi  declined by
28 percent and 52 percent In real terms, respcdvely. Wih the sharp drop In deman for Kyrsyz
Industa exports, the Republic's Imports of raw matial and intermediate goods from the FSU also fell
drastcally. Elecicity expors, mainly to Kazakhstan, were one of the few items ha have recorded an
Increase in 1994. The renewal of electricity trade agreement with Kazakhstan enabled the Kyrgyz
Republic to Increas Its export volume by 70 percen at favorable prices.  With the decline of
manufactued pgoods exports, the country's export structure has become concentrated In a few
comoUdities: }31cticity, wool, mnerals, cotton, sugar, leath  and skins now account for about one half
of tol export urnin, as compared to roughly 20 percent In 1992. China has emerged   an impornt
expo market, in addion to the Unitd Kingdom, Turkey and Gem y. On the Import sie, there has
bee a s  ubntial ease in consumer goods imports from non-FSU counre. These goods, esdmatd
rougly at USSSO millon in 1994, have been substituting for imports from the FSU, and cmpetg with
domndeed producdon. As a rsult of larger contraction In Imports, the trade diit has narowed from
about USS 160 mMion in 1993, to aound USS120 mIlion In 1994 (12 percent of GDP) wihtotal expom



ANNEX B
Page 5 of 12
- 41 -
estimated at US$340 million and imports of USS459 million. In 1994, the currem account deicit
(excluding official transfers) was around USS 202 million (about 20 percent of GDP). Although interest
payments were low, outflow of private transfers at USS52 million remained large, as non-Kyrgyz citizens
coinued to emigrate. In 1994, the Kyrgyz Republic received external assistance of USS201 million
including official grants of US$76 million, and foreign direct investment of US$25 mlion. These flows
were adequate to finance the current account deficit, although the country's foreig exchange reserves
remained low, equal to about 1.4 months of imports. Prdiminary'-balance of paymet projections
indicate that the trade deficit will widen from about USS120 million in 1994 to about USS134 million in
1995, befre stabilizing around US$160-170 million in subsequent year. Despite wkdkning of the trad
deficit, however, the current account deficit is expected to decline gradually as a resut primarily of
anticipated decline in private capital outflows, as the number of migrants leaving the country tapers ofE
Exteral capital requiremenu, on the other hand, are expected to remain large aroud US$270-290
million per year during 1996-98, largely on account of increasing debt service on external borrowing.
m. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CONDlTIONS
8.           Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, conditions
for the second tranche release require that the Association shall be satisfied: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Reform Program as a whole; and (b) that the specflc
conditions related to the release of the second tranche descnbed in Schedule 3 of the Agreement have
beeanet. Overall progs in carrying out the Reform Program and fulfillment of the specfic trancha
rease condions are described below.
*.    Overall Program.  While the focus of macroeconomic polkia  wer  on
stabilization, the Privaization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Progm, supported by PESAC, wsu th
crnerstone of the country's structural reform agenda in 1994. The Borrower hu mado sinlflcm
progress in the implementation of this Program, with Impressive achieve   in price and trade
liberadon, and mass privaization. Under the Reform Program, most prces were liberlized in 1994,
with the removal of aU direct and indirect price controls inherited from the command economy. The Stat.
has until recently also intervened in the price system through the imposition of compulsory State ordes
at admin  red prices. Under the Reform Program, these compulsory State ordes wero replaced Initially
by 'State needs' based on voluntary supply contracts through market relatons, and evenotually elimnated.
The number and quandty of commodides subject to Interstate clearing angeme   havo also bee
reduced subsndally. In addition, non-tariff barriers to exports nd hmports hve been removed, and
export za  bave bee virtully abolished. At present, only 3 ikms, hides ad sklis, rae animals and
silk cocoons are subject to export duties.
On privatization, the Borrower's performance has largely surpassed the progres
espected under the Rform Program. The Borrower has implemented a divestiture sategy which was
tasparent, compsdtive and fair. It was also conducive to achiving greaser economic efficiey Is
pr}vaoed .enterpris. It relied prmarily on (i) cash and coupon auctions for the slo of mall-sale
enterprises;  ) cash and coupon auctions for the sale of Ste-owmed shares In aready privized
enterpries; and (ii) the privatization of medium and large-scale entaprses through the fro dribution
of 5 percent of their shares to labor and managers, the sale of at least 25 percent of their shua   In
voucher auctions, and the cash sale of up to 70 pacent to strategic investors selected on tho basis of
Competitive Privaaion Proposals (CPP). As of March 1995, over S3 percent of the coutry's totaL
tL40d asseu had been fully or partally privatized.



ANNEX B
Page 6 of 12
- 42 -
In the area of Legal Reforms, a Central Legal Reform Unit was created to coordinate the
law making process, and a number of new laws were enacted or prepared to improve the enabling
environment for private sector entry and development. These included a new Company Law, and laws
on Insolvency (enacted), Collateral and Lease, and a Public Procurement Legislation aimed at ensuring
that public procurement in the fature is made on a competitive and transparent basis. 7to Borrower
expect to submit to Parliament, before the end of 1995, all the draft laws prepared under the PESAC
Reform Program.
Progress on Enterprise Restructuring, on the other hand, was less forefu and successfir.
Although the Borrower has moved rapidly to establish an Entierprise Reform and Resoution Agency
(ERRA) to address the problems of 29 large loss-making enterprises, there was an initial confusion about
the objectves and operat  principles of this organization. While the Manageme  of ERRA was
cominit  to the objectives of enterprise restructuring, ERRA's Board appeared reluctant to take
politcally difficult decisions such as downsizing and labor sheddlng. Once these objecdves were
clarified, however, the Borrower bas demonstrated its commitment to ERRA's princples by (i)
completely stopping the production of enterprises with a negative gross margin; (Lo seming aside budgt
finds needed to support the 'care and maintenance program,' including financial support to employees
on adminitative leave, funding for essential social services, and the resources necessary to implement
the passive restructuring of enterprises that are considered potendally viable; (iii) undeaking the viability
asment of three nterprises (Mull Sai Eectric Lightbulb Factory, Kyrgyz Mining and Metllurgical
kombinat and Eishlce Agriculural Machinery Plant) and strting the proces of passe restucrng
through spinnig of non-core activities and laying off surplus labor. Th. viability uasment of three
addtional enterprises, aready underway, are expected to be completed by end-June, 1995; nd (lv)
adopting the Implementaion regulSaons of Insolvency Legslation tha pve ERRA the legal auoriy tD
t as a liquraort for  oer eshapes that are judged to bo  nmically unviable. A  pau  of the
Entrprise   cturingo , itwas also critically important to effcively impos financial disciplin
on Stte enterrises. Tbh Borrower and ERRA have made significant progess In achieving this goa by
hardening the budget constrain  of State enterprises through restictive monetary and fisal polics at
the macro level, and In th case of ERRA enterprises, by cutting them off from the banking systm am
preventing them from accumulating bad debts to the banks, to the budget and to otha enterprises.
Fhially, as part of the Reform Program, the Borrower introduced major chages In Its
system of social protecton to better target social benefits, and protect the unployed. On lanuary 1,
199S the Govenmet nLoduced Common Monthly Subsidy schaem  which replaced previous socl
assistance benefits of varios kinds. k is based on the principles of income test  and saf-seection and
Is aimed to raise the per capita income level of the non-workng poor, up to the minimuM Wage   el.
The Borrower also rationalized and simplified the unemployment beneffs, and aflocated adeu  budget
tnds to provide socil protection for the unemployed.  On the divesdture of social asse from
enterprises, including beating and hot water facilities, the Borrower has decided to transfer these to the
local authorides with the exception of housing and summer camps whkh would be pivatzed. The
implementation of this stegy has bega under the PESAC Reform Program with the first three ERRA
nprises.
U.    SpOeC  Actions. The Government of the Xyrsyz Repblic has take  the
following actions to mee the specific criteria contained In Schedule 3 of the Credit Avreemes



ANNEX B
Page 7 of 12
- 43 -
(1)    The Borrower has carried out at least 4 voucher auctions in at least 2 oblasts
In respect of the sale of shares in previously privatized enterprises, through competitive methods
covering a minimum of 10 enterprises at each auction.
This condition has been met.   The Borrower's performance on this condti ion has
exceeed expectadons under PESAC Reform Program. From April 1994 to January 5, 1995, the State
Property Fund (SPF) held 55 coupon auctions in 6 different oblts for 265 nadozal and regional
enterpriss In which SPF stllheld Stae shares. Ia these auctions, 437 lmion couponpoins and 12 180
bis were submitted. These bids represented participation by an esimated 364 000 indivdls who used
their coupons diredy or indirecdy, through investment funds (IFs). By end-December 1994, the IFs
exchanged for shares 61 percet of the total number of points used during the coupon aucdons. This
condition was met already in January 1995.
(2)   SPF has carried out at least 3 auctions In at least 2 obLsts and Invited
intsted parties to submit their privatizatlon proposals for at least 70 enterprise  sti flly
gova=nent-owned at the date of thi Agreemnent.
Tbe condition has been met By mid-November 1994, the SPF privatized 29 fully State-
owned enterprises located in 3 different oblasts through open cry-out auctions and tendets. By mid-April
1995, the SPF offered for privatdzation 73 medium and large-scale enterprises Included in the 1994-95
Prhiauation Program thug  Competitive Privatzaton Proposals (CPP) and Tender for SAtrec
Investrs CM5!) schemes. Under these programs, up to 70 percn of the shares of an enteprise could
be so  to a domestic or internaonal stategic investr through a compedtive bidding process. The TSI
s-n  an Improved version of the CPP prog= under which the referenc price of an entprise Is
estabished based on the aucdo rate and the market coupon rate, radher han dtrough the time consming
metbod of uset Inveory evalao   T7e action rate, to be determind by market forces, s exectd
to create more realistic pices for the enterprlses. Under the TSIpropan, prico Is the only cria Ibr
sdecdng the winner. Consiation of buslness plans have beean removed from the selection proces, a
wel as the creaion of commissionu to evaluate these proposals. Thi method is expected to accelerate
the privadzadon of medium and arge-scale enterprises.
(3)    SPF bas prepared and submitted to the Association: (a) a report on the
propion of enteprise  privadzed through auctions and conpetitsve bidding procedur; and (b)
a plan ftor the future privatltdon of enterprises, Including a timetabl, for Its Implemeation,
acceptable to the Assodaton.
This conditon has been met.  The State Property Fund submitted a report on (i)
entrprises privadzed through aucdons, bidding and Compedtive Privatization Proposals; and WH) a plan
and timetable for Iuit prhvrzation of enterprises which is satisfactory to IDA. According to thls
report: () In 1994 and during the first quarter of 1995, the SPF has privatzed 343 State entepris
Icluded In the 1994-1995 Privtzadon Progm through auctions, bidding and tenders. About 143 Stat
ntprie Icludd ino the 1994-1995 Ptlvatization Program hveo bee tansformed Ino JSCS to be
pvatzed dmgh Competitive Privatztlon Proposals. So far, nodces on competitive prvalzatoa
proposals have been issued for 73 ISC. To date, 27 cash auctions have also been successfhlly completed
wher the shar  of 226 JSCs were offered and the share of 139 Stat enteprise were sold. (i) The SPY
ba presented a list of 263 Sto aenterprises to be privatized by the end of 1995. Ths list also coins
a time tsble for the prvatzadon of each entity during 199.



ANNEX B
Page 8 of 12
- 44 -
(4)    ERRA has implemented a hard payment system for all enterprises under Its
responsibility resultIng In no further accumulation of Inter-enterprise arrears and no increase or
debt to the banling system and/or the Borrower.
This condition has been met. ERRA introduced the 'bard payment system" for aMi
etaprises under its jurisdiction as soon as they were brought under iks care and maintenance program.
In October 1994. Agregate figures provided by ERRA indicate that Amc October 1994, there have beea
decline in inter-eeprise arrears, debtu to the budget and debt to the balkng sytm   However, there
have bn incrases in Inter-entepriso arreas, and budget debts of a fe enterpris. hncreases In Inter-
enterprise debt In a few cases are attributable to the costs of heati  and hot water traditionally provided
by some ERRA enterprises to the residents of nearby towns for which they have not been reimbursed by
ERRA. 111s has led to an increase in their indebtedness to the Gas, Oil and Electricity compaas. With
the prope Implementon of ERRA principles - which requir that AU g=  traditionally hnurred by
ERPA eaterprises for heating and hot wut, during the winter  moth, wM be compensated by ERRA,
utR end-Decemer 1995- these arrears are expected to decline stadily. Some enteprses hve also
build up tax arrears due mainly to sale of inventorles/goods by Grup I and Group U oterprises,
respectiely on a barter rather th  cash basis. As a result, they wer unable to pay taxes. The small
Increase in tax aran  of som  enterpises was due to circumsnces beyond the control of ERA's
Managemen, Ihis problem would disappear once ERRA enterprises are liquidated or privatized. In the
case of liquidation, the liquidation proceds, if adequate, would cover ta Liabilies. In the case of
privatization, the now owns of potentially viable enterpises would react   uinesting with th
T-easury on payment of tax arra.
(5)    EltA has completd vbility asessment of at least 3 large losnang
enterprise  (LMEs) under Its rponibilty and has taken a deisin on the Uquldalo  or
rercturing progrm In respect of tbse enterprises.
lhis condition his been met. ERRA has completedhe viabiity asessm  of tre
LLMEs In January 1995 and is arently Implementing the rommendations of the sudties, as approved
by Is Board, which are satisfactory to DA (See Attachment).
(6)    Te Borrw  has taken all necLssary masue on Its part to reduce Lt
coverag of Its bilateral clear   rngments with the view of paing them out completely.
n13gnition has b meL n e number and quant  of goods subject to    deft
areements have been drastically reduced during the courn of PESAC hRorm Progm. In 1995, only
co claring agreemeat has bee signed wih Uzbeklistan for provision of gs in exchange for a list of
Idusal goods and some cash. The Borrower remains commitod to the complete eliminaon of these
reemets.
(7)    The Borrower has submited to the Assocaton for review a draft Company
nhis condidon has been met. The Borrowet ha tansmitted to the Assocon a drat
Company Law composed of two pas. The first part, prepared by the Legl Departmet of the
Gornme's Office In consultation with a foreign lea consultant, con   geel proisos on
ommerclalntepri  and specifc provisions on partnerships and companies. Th secod pat. prvared
by the Government Legal Depanent In consultation with USAX), cont   more spocific provisions on



ANNEX B
Page 9 of 12
45 -
joint stock companies. In a letter to the Association, dated May 12, 1995, the Borrower confirmed its
intention to (a) refine the current draft of the Company Law and better coordinate its two component parts
with one another; and (b) submit a revised draft to the Kyrgyz Parliament by the end of 1995. It is also
expected that the revised draft wUl be consistent with the underlying principles of the new Civil Coda that
is nOw being prepared.
(8)   ITe Borrower has prepared and furnishedto the Association a report on the
progress made In the implementation of the legislative action plan for the Lmprovement of the
enabling environmnent for private sector activity, agreed upon vith the Associadon, and on the
legislative actions to be carried out by the Borrower during the next phase, acceptable to the
Association.
TMis condition has been met. The legislative acdon plan, to which this paragraph refers,
is summarized in the Ler of Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustent Policy (LOPESAP) dated
May 30, 1994, and consists of the following actions: (a) preparatlon and submission to Parliament of a
draft law claifying the rights to lease land and simplifying the land lease rules; (b) making amendments
wo the joint stock company law providing for strict duties on companies in the registration of shar  and
clarifying the concept of legal personality and the difference between limited and unlimited liability; (c)
preparation of legislation/decree allowing for the registration of security rights by collatral or pledge;
(d) preparadon of legislation/decree on competitive State procurement procedures for publicly financed
purchases and contracts; and (e) issuance of two sets of instructions containing detailed implementing
ndes for the insolvency of bank (to be issues by the National Bank) and for enterprises (to be issued by
the Pdme Minter) no later than Septmber 30, 1994.
The letter sent to the Association by the Borrower on May 12, 1995, constimu  a
satsfactory report for the purposes of pan. 8 of Schedule 3. W'it respect to progress made In the
implnemation of the legiative acion plan, the following should be noted: (a) the Legal Depaunnt
of the Government's Office, iu consultadon with a foreip  legal cosultaZ ha prepared a draft law
amending the present law on lese (Law No. 60-XII of April 14, 1990); in light of the polidcal and
consdtudonal developments In the Kyrgyz Republic, the Borrower has not yet been able to submit this
draft to Padiament (b) seveal decrees were adopted In November 1994 with respect to share riShs and
egai  (Decrees Nos. 299, 300 and 301); however, it Is apected that share rights and registration
wll be deat with more comprehensively by the new Company Law mentioned above; (c) the Lega
Deparent of tho Government's Offie, in consultation with a foreip legal consultant, has prepared a
draft Law on Collatr; (d) the Legl Department of the Goverment's Office, In consultation with
vious other governmeal offices, has prepared a drft Law on Procurem    and (e) a set of
imp ucio  with detailed implement  rules for the insolvency of ba   was isumed by the Kyryz
Naoti   Bank on December 3, 1994 (No. 10/1), and a set of instructions with detailed implementing
rlea for the insolvency of enterprises was issued by the Borrower on April 18, 1995 (No. 136). As
smed in its letter to the Association of May 12, 1995, the Borrower expects to submit to Parlament,
befr thb end of 1995, all the daft listed in letters (a), (c) and (d) above. With respect to the
loegilve actions that the Borrower Inteds to carry out after release of the sond tranhe the
Borer's letter of May 12, 1995, contains a detailed list of priority arw  for lepl rebrnL  Tne
Boarower intends to complet the work on some of these priority aas, namely ( the prepaation of a
nww Civil Code (fir part), and (iH) the claification of the righs to land and their transferabilty, by the
end of 1995. It Is eapected that the resident legal advisor, who is currendy working with the Lega
Rdorm Unt in she Office of the President, will contnbute to the carying out of these legsatve actionso



ANNEX B
Page 10 of 12
- 46 -
(9)    The Borrower has implemented the action plan for deMonopolization of
wholesale trade and transport enterprises, as agreed upon with the Assodiation.
This condition has been met.   Under the Reform Program it was agreed that the
Borrower would (i) de-monopolize and privatize four large wholesale trade enteprises (Kyrgyzailkomock,
Kyrgyzmasheleczrooptorg, Kyrgyzrasnooptorg, and Kyrgyzmemiooptqrg) in the industrial sector; and (ii)
de-monoplize 3 holding companies, and privatize 10 large trucking enterprises in the aansport secor.
The four wholesale trade enterpnses were segmented and privazed trugh primarily copon and cash
auctions. The Association was informed by the Borrower that the 25 percent shares still held by SPF in
Kyrgyzmashelectrooptorg and Kyrgyzmetalooptorg would be divested in the course of 1995 through cash
and coupon auctioas. The Borrower has, under the Resoludon No. 823 of November 14, 1994, abolished
the three holding companies that were under the Ministry of Transport: OKyrgzavto   n, "Kyrgyzzbol
and "Kryavtoremprom". The 10 large trucking enterprises, identified ir October 1994, have been
offered for privatization through the CPP program.
(19)   The Borrower has continued to implement its policy of not Imposing any
compulsory purchase orders.
This condition has been met. In January 1994, the compulsory State orders were
replaced by "Stat needs 0 whose volume for the year 1994 were published together with the cornding
unit prices (Resolution 30, January 24, 1994). A more substndal step was taken in February 1994 when
a Government Decree (Decree No. 50) explicitly abolished State orders and specified that purchases
related to State needs* would be executed on a contractual basis. No State needs have been announced
for 1995.
EV. CONCLUSION
9.           The Borrower has made significant progress in the implemetaion of the Privadzation
and Enterprise Sector Adjustmue  Program supported by PESAC, and met all of the requrements for the
release of the second tranhc set out in the Development Credit Agmemeni Tbe Borrower has therefore
been advised of the availability of the second tranche of SDR 21.25 million (US$30 million equivalent).
James D. Wolfeasohm
Preadent



ANNEX B
Page 11 of 12
- 47 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION  AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
(Credit No. 2639-KG)
Second Tranche Release
Attachment
Action Plans for Three ERRA Enterprises
1.     Mali-Sal Electric LlUhtbulb Plant (MSEL). (i) in addition to the 800 already dismissed, the
labor force would be reduced further to the level recommended by the consultants (2,600 employees) by
April 15, 1995, and the surplus labor (about 2 100) would first be placed on administrat2ve leave and then
be gradually laid off over the next 5 months; (ii) the social and public asses of MSEL will be
privatized/transferred to the local authorities, as detailed by consultants, by April 15, 1995; (ii) in the
meantie. ERRA will compensate MSEL for all costs incurred by it in connection with heatng and other
social sevices over the period December 1, 1994 through March 30, 99S; (iv) ERRA Board's decision
to provide Soms 7 million to MSEL for technological Improvemen, in addition to Soms 3 mion
already provided for worling capital, will be reversed; (v) MSEL would be put on a cashbarter basis
for air purchases and financial obligations to prevent a new build-up in arrurs; (vi) with the assitance
of a short term consultant, hired by ERRA, using PESAC funds if necessary, the eterprise would
prepare detaied cash flows to dermine opdmum level of producdon in order to avoid isolvency; (vii)
at the same tlis, the productive sets of MSEL would be transferred to a new JSC (by May 15, 1995).
along with any debts accumulated aftr end-1994 (the outsding debt as of December 31, 1994 would
remain in the old MSEL State Enterprise); (viii) EPRA would secure, for the new JSC, further techical
assistance as recommended by the diapostic studies; (ix) the new JSC  will be 'deemed fmancially
viable if, with technical assistance, it has been able to generate a 'positive operating cash flow over
a two month period, at which dme, but no later than October 1995, it would be tumed over to SPF for
mmediate privadzation; tx) no debt clearance would be accorded by ERRA to the 'old' MSEL State
Enterprise until it is placed in liquLidation.
2.                or_Mc d Metallurdal Kombinat (KMMED. ti) the social and public assets of
KMMK would be trnsferred to the local authorkies on April 15, 1995; (i) poteil private strategic
Investors would be sought actively by the SPF and ERRA, as recommended by the dignostic stdies;
(ii) a foreign advisor would be engaged by ERRA, to prepare an information package which would be
made avaiable to potendal strategic investors, and assist the Government to ngotiate with any Investor
(or trader in the case of inventories) who comes forward with serious investment and marketing
proposals; Civ) XMMEC would remain closed until its business units could be privazed wih the
pacipation of strategic investors; (v) in the meantime, only a skeleton workforce of essentl employees
(no more th  300) would be retained on admnistrative leave, with the remainder (about 2000) to be laid
off gradually, but completely (by end-August, 1995); (vi) in the absence of any serious invesUtent
proposal from strategic investors, KMMK would be placed in liquidation (no later than end-October.
1995).



ANNEX B
Page 12 of 12
- 48 -
3.       ekAigzculturalMachinr  Plant (BAhfl. (i) BAM would be split into three separate Iegal
eaides a recommended by the diapostic studies: The electrodes, and the consumer goods industrs
(including plastic goods) would be transformed into two small-scale entepris  (SSEs), and be trasfiered
from ERRA to SPF for immediate privtzation (no later tha May 15, 1995); the Bishkek Agricultul
Machinery Plant would be transformed Into a JSC (all by April 25, 1995); (O) ERRA would secure
tccal  ssnco  for BAM  as recommended by diaostic studia; (ii) in additon to about 300
unskilled worke  already laid off, BAM would start laying off the rmainlng sOu  labo (about 1200)
begnno  on April 15, 1995; (lv) BAM would remain uender  a a_ natmzn  progrm wit  200
fWly-paid essential staff, and 1600 staff on administrative leave (untl end June, 1995); (v) the head t
plant and soci srvices would be transferred to local authorities and some social asse privatized, a
per ERRA Board's decisons, by Apri 25, 1995; (vi) based on confirmed orders (30 pacnt or mor
down paymet received), as recommeaded by consultants, ERRA's Bord would take a decision ov
wether to retart te fctory or to liquidate it (no later dt   end August, 1995).
May 25, 199S
.



NOIES






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26822R
KAZAKSTAN                                           2J
/S    TAA  \..s __;'i_
, '              -   DZHALALT AAD                                                     y                                                                    A4  
X         4;    e                        t 3    9   s tT.              w -                                is-          y
~~~        Ko~~~~~o-K~i                     K~
Ko9-  ~                                    / O   S   H   --
i- -I                                                                                   KYRGYZ  REPUBLIC
TAJIKISTAN   ~~~~~A                                                                                                                             SYKK _P__ ~
Lorx                                                                                                                                T A  J  I K I S  T7A N  *--*-- , RAILROADS
70'  A5 R< YO NShJIlI   ,/   ToMu  9                                    _   MAIN ROADS
ZE  A /       ;     K A ZA KS T AN                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
0  ,-.----,                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-1--
.  .                                                                                                                                0    SELECTED  CIT   R S
P1.   >~                                                                                                                                                                 OBLAST REOUNBAIES
T. 0.,h ~ ~ ~ T. -C,K
EPJL  _-~\    -'u  '~GZRP    CHN                                                                                    55        150mlo h15g=                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDA7RIESml  kiESI
R T A..J.'I K                   C I A T A N
OBLAST CAPITS       SPEREB IW









IMAGING
Report No.:        16698
Type:     ICR



