Dott of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6341-KG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERN&TIONAL DEVELOPMNT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
3N A
PROPOSED PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 42.5 MILLION
TO
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
-1IN1. 0  1994
MICEOGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6341 KG
Type; PR
.This document has a reticted distribution and ma) be used bs redpieots oid in tbe peorfonce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherise be dkosed widbou World Bank; aeforization.



CURRENCY EOUIAENTS
Until May 10, 1993
Currency Unit       Ruble
I Ruble             100 kopecks
After May 10, 1993
Currency Unit       Som
I Som        =      100 tiyins
Rubles/Som per US Dollar
Period Average         End of Period
RUBLES/US DOLLAR
1992
Quarter I               102.4                  100.0
Quarter II               94.6                  100.0
Qaarter Ill             17717                  254.4
Quarter IV              396.4                  414.5
1993
Quarter 1               580.1                  684.0
SOM/US DOLLAR
Quarter II 1              4.1                    4.3
Quarter III               5.6                    6.5
Quarter IV                7.8                    8.0
1994
Quarter I                10.1                   11.7
WEIGflTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
May 10 - June 30, 1993.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC                        Anti-Monopoly Committee
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CIS                        Commonwealth of Independent States
CMP                        Care and Maintenance Program
CPAR                       Country Procurement Assessment Report
ERRA                       Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
ESAF                       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC                       Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSU                        Former Soviet Union
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GOSKOMINVEST               State Commission for Foreign Investments and Economic Assistance
ICB                        International Competiti-- Ridding
IF                         Investment Fund
IFC                        International Finance Corporation
ISC                        Joint Stock Company
LLMEs                      Large Loss-Making State Enterprises
MIGA                       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBK                        National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
PESAC                      Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PESAP                      Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project
PFP                        Policy Framework Paper
PIU                        Project Implementation Unit
PMU                        PESAC Management Unit
PSD                        Private Sector Development
SCE                        State Committee for the Economy
SDR                        Special Drawing Rights
SM?                        Special Means of Payment (Vouchers)
SOE                        State-Owned Enterprise
SPF                        State Property Fund
SSN                        Social Safety Net
STF                        Systemic Transformati.n Facility
TA                         Technical Assistance
TACRC                      Technical Assistance Component of the Rehabilitation Credit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pfmance sfiheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank autorzation.



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT SUMNw4ARY                     ................... ...........................   i
PART I.  COUNTRY PERFORMANCE AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
STRATEGY                 ..................................                                  3
A. Background  ...............................................  3
B. Stabilization Efforts ..........................................  4
C. Structural Reforms (1992-1993) ..................................  5
D. The Need for Continued Stabilization and Adjustment  ....................  6
E. Balance of P}ayments Prospects and External Capital Requirements ....          .........  7
F. Bank Group Assistance Strategy  ...... ............................  9
PART I.  ADJUSTMEENT AT THE ENTERPRISE LEVEL: THE KEY ISSUE  ...                              ....  10
A. Introduction ..............................................  10
B. Issues in Privatization Strategy ..................................  11
C. Issues in SOE Performance  ....................................   13
D. Policy  and Regulatory  Barriers to  Enterprise Efficiency and Private Sector
Development ...........................................  13
E. Social Costs of Adjustment  ....................................   15
PART M. PROPOSED PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTNMT
PROGRAM   ...............................................    16
A. Objectives and Scope . ......................................   16
B. The New Privatization Strategy .......            ..........................   17
Free Use of Individual Shareholding Rights ..       ........................   17
Auction of Shares Against Vouchers .......            ......................   17
Reducing State Control Over Privatized Enterit.aes  ...................             18
Systematic Use of Competitive Methods of Privatization  .          ..............   18
C. Corporatization and Financial Discipline of SOEs ......................   19
Corporatization .......................................... 19
Enhancement of Financial Discipline ............................   19
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission, which visited Bishkek in March/April
1994, comprising: MN. F. Aynur Sumer, Mission Leader and Task Manager (EC3AI), and Messrs.
Michalopoulos, Ashraf (EC3DR), Peloschek (LEGEC), Brefort (PSD), Mozes (FSD), Haggerty,
Murrell, King and Shea (Consultants). The Peer Reviewers were Messrs. Lieberman (PSD) and Da
Cunha (DECVP). Mr. Michael A. Gould and - fr. Russell J. Cheetham are the managing Division
Chief and Departnent Director, respectively.



D. Liquidation/Restructuring of Large Loss-Making Enterprises (LLMEs) ....          .....  20
The Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA) ................    20
"Care and Maintenance Program"    ................................ 23
Size and Use of Budget Funds ................................. 23
Debt Clearance  ....................................... 24
E. Policy And Regulato-y Reforms  .............           .....         ..............   24
Price Policy Reforms              ......................................   25
Trade Policy Reforms         .................          ....................   27
Legal And Regulatory Reforms  ..29....................    9
F. Social Protection ............                                               .........   30
PART IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT  ...........                                 ...........   31
Borrower and Credit Amount  ................................  31
Technical Assistance Requirements ....................... .....  31
Procurement ..................................... 32
Disbursement .................................... 32
Management, Reporting, and Auditing         ...........................   33
Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions  .................   33
Environmental Assessment .........              .........................   36
PART V. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ............                      .........................   36
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION  ..........                       .........................  ..  37
PESAC POLICY MATRIX .............................. 38
ANNEXES
I.   Selected Macroeconomic Indicators .44
H.    Balance of Payments Projectiens, 1994-96 .45
III.    External Capital Requirements, 1994-96 .46
IV.        Selection Method for Competitive Privatization Proposals .47
V.        The Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA) .50
VI.   Legal and Regulatory Reforms under PESAC .68
VII.        Letter of Privatization and Enterprise Secr Adjustment Policy (LOPESAP)             71
VIII.    Timetable of Key Credit Processing Events .83
IX.        Status of Bank Group Operations in the Kyrgyz Republic .85
X.  Supervision Plan .86
IBRD         Map 25844 ............................................. 88



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATON AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMWNT CREDIT (PESAC)
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Kyrgyz Republic
Executng
Agency:             The State Committee for the Economy
Amount:             SDR 42.5 million (US$ 60 million equivalent)
Terms:              IDA terms, with a 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace
Objectives:         The principal objectives of the Reform Program to be supported by the proposed
Credit are to (i) reduce the role of the state in economic activity through
privatization; CiH) improve the governance of enterprises that will remain
temporarily in Government ownership; (iii) reduce economic and financial costs
to the economy of large and inefficient state owned enterprises (SOEs) through
liquidation or passive restructuring; (iv) improve the enabling environment for
private sector development by reducing market imperfections, price and trade
distortions, and barriers to entry and exit; and (v) help ease the social costs of
adjustment.
Credit
Description:        The proposed credit will be quick-disbursing and will provide balance of
payments support, linked to the conditionality specified for first and second
tranche releases.  The first tranche would become available upon credit
effectiveness, expected ai July 1994, and the second tranche, upon a review,
satisfactory to IDA, of successful implementation of the adjustment program as
a whole; and fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions. The proceeds
of the credit would be used for financing the foreign exchange costs of general
-  iports, except for a small negative list of ineligible goods.
Benefits:           The proposed Credit would allow increased production and capacity utilization
through the provision of foreign exchange resources to finance imports of inputs,
raw materials, spare parts and services. The credit would alsohelp accelerate
the implementation of enterprise privatization and restructuring which are the key
objectives of the Government's Reform Program to transform the economy; and
it would support tfforts to stimulate private sector development, improved
enterprise governance and efficiency, and banking sector reforms in the ongoing
movement towards a market economy. Technical assistance under the Credit,



- ii -
financed from other financial sources, would contribute to the development of
technical capacity in economic and financial management and would reinforce
the implementation of the Government's Reform Program.
Risks:              Four main risks are associated with the program. (i) The first relates to the
Country's ability to stabilize the economy. The persistence of high and volatile
inflation would undermine the financial health of enterprises in transition, create
a major obstacle to the reduction of interest rates, discourage investments and
new entrants to the market. (ii) The second risk stems from the sheer magnitude
of privatization and SQE restructuring effort and the complexity of its
implementation. The major systemic and institutional reforms ernvisaged under
the credit are unprecedented in the Kyrgyz Republic and may take substantially
longer time than anticipated. (iii) The Country's limited administrative capacity
and unfamiliarity with IDA procurement and disbursement procedures could
rv'sult in significant implementation delays. Finally, (iv) the social impact of
enterprise liquidation/restructuring may lead to strong political resistance. The
first risk would be mitigated by the Goiernment's strong commitment to the
IMF/IDA supported stabilization programs. The technical assistance provided
under the proposed Credit - although funded from other sources - would help
to reduce the risks under (ii) and (iii). The Credit, while not fully addressing the
social costs of adjustment, would help in maintaining jobs in efficient enterprises
and in reducing the overall loss of jobs in enterprises facing difficulties. In
addition, the Government would provide social protection directly under the
Credit tLhough improved unemployment compensation and proactive assistance
for those affected by enterprise restructuring and liquidation.
Disbursement:       The proposed credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The first tranche
(US$30 million) would become available upon credit effectiveness, and the
second tranche six to eight months later. The credit would reimburse 100
percent of the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports, with eligibility
determined by a small negative list, agreed between the Government and IDA.
Contracts costing less than US$5,000 and goods financed by other donors would
not be eligible for financing under the credit.
Poverty Category:   Not applicable.
Rate of
Retun:              Not applicable.
Map:                IBRD 25844



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRES13DENT OF TIUE
[NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIkECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMNNT CREDiT
TO T1HE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
1.           I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Privatization and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic for the
equivalent of SDR 42.5 million (US$60 million) to provide financial support for the Government's
Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjusanent Program (PESAP).
2.           Since its independence (1991), the Kyrgyz Republic has made significant progress in
transforming its economy into a market-oriented one. Over the past two years, a plethora of laws and
decrees have been enacted, new institutions created, and an ambitious set of reforms designed and
implemented. These reforms have been supported by a Rehabilitation Credit (FY93) from IDA, a stand-
by arrangement and a Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) from dhe IMF; and assistance from other
-multilateral and bilateral donors. The Government's medium-term economic reform program has been
described in the first Policy Framework Paper (PFP) 1994-1997, which was approved by the management
of IMF and IDA in May 1994. A recent report entitled "Kyrgyz Republic: Economic Report't (Report
Number 12942 KG) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1994.
3.           The proposed Adjustment Program would build on and complement the reforms already
undertaken by the Government since 1991. The principal objectives of the Reform Program (PESAP)
to be supported by the proposed Credit are to (i) reduce the role of the State in economic activity through
continued privatization; (ii) improve the governance of enterprises that will remain temporarily in
Government ownership; (iii) reduce economnic and financial costs to the economy of large loss-making
state enterprises (LLMEs) through liquidation or passive restructuring; (iv) improve the enabling
environment for private sector development by reducing market imperfections, price and trade distortions,
and barriers to entry and exit; and (v) help e_se the social costs of adjustment. The proposed credit would
be quick-disbursing and would provide balance of payments support, linked to the conditionality specified
for first and second tranche releases. 'The proceeds of the credit would be used for financing the foreign
exchange costs of general imports, except for a small negative list of ineligible goods.
PART I. COUNTRY PERFORMANCE AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Background
4.           The Kyrgyz Republic, a landlocked Central Asian country with a population of
4.4 million, is among the poorest republics of the former Soviet Union (FSU) with a per capita income
of US$810 in 1992. As early as 1990, it embarked on political reforms by electing President Akayev,
a pro-reform pro-democracy physicist, and by declaring sovereignty.



-4-
5.           Under Soviet central planning, the Kyrgyz economy evolved from predominantly
agricultural to a more balanced sectoral structure as the industrial sector, highly integrated with the rest
of the FSU, was promoted. In recent yeas:, the agricultural sector accounted for 35 percent of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and about 40 percent of total employment. Industry is the second largest sector,
accounting for 30 percent of GDP, and employing 20 percent of the labor force. There are very sniall
known deposits of oil and natural gas, and the country depeids almost entirely on imported petroleum
products. The Republic, however, has substantial hydro-resources, and is a net exporter of electrical
energy. There are some gold, antimony, mercury, and coal deposits, few o)f which were heavily
explkrited in the Soviet era. The Kyrgyz economy has been heavily dependent on trade with other FSU
countries: imports and exports represented 45 and 35 percent of GDP, respectively during 1989-90.
6.           Since its independence, the Kyrgyz Republic has been confronted with highly adverse
circumstances. The collapse of the Union led to tle terniination of fiscal transfers from the Union,
which until 1991 accounted for about I I percent of GDP, a dramatic deterioration in terms of trade
as a result of large increases in import prices of oil and natural gas, and a drastic decline in the volume
of trade to about 40 percent of its level in 1990. The trade, and the current account deficits of the
balance of payments in 1993 were estimated at 11 and 15.5 percent of GDP, respectively. Disruption
of inter-republic trade and payments caused major declines in output, as the Kyrgyz economy is highly
dependent on other republics. Since 1990, real output has declined by 35 percent, and by more than 50
percent in industry.
7.           The Kyrgyz Republic was among the first states of the FSU to embark on a program of
macroeconomic stabilization and systemic reforms. The Pres- Jent, with his strong commitment to market-
oriented reforns, has been the driving force behind the adoption of this strategy. The reform efforts were
strongly supported by the international community through a Consultative Group, organized by the Bank
in 1992. Stabilization was supported by one of the first IMF stand-by arrangements and the first STF
purchase in the FSU.
8.           The precipitous decline in living standards in 1992-1993, and the difficulties experienced
from the collapse of the old system stimulated social discontent and brought the Government increasingly
under political pressure. The Parliament, which was initially cooperative in adopting reform measures,
became increasingly less supportive. Hardship experienced in the transition has also exacerbated deep-
seated ethnic separation and rivalry between clans, dividing the Kyrgyz along north/south lines. Attempts
to balance ethnic and clan diversity in the ministries resulted in a divided Government and adversely
affected implementation of reform policies. As a result, progress on stabilization and structural reform
has been uneven.
9.           In December 1993, the Government resigned and was replaceU by a new Government.
At the same time, the President called for a referendum on his performance. The referendum, which was
held on January 30, 1994, gave overwhelming support to the President. Since then the new government,
under his influence has pressed ahead strongly with the reform process.
B. Stabilization Efforts
10.          In 1992, as a small member of the Ruble zone, the Kyrgyz economy was under the
influence of macroeconomic developments in the rest of the FSU, particularly in Russia. Efforts to
achieve stabilization were undermined by the lack of policy coordination and ensuing instability in the
Ruble zone. In May 1993, the Kyrgyz Republic took courageous steps toward stabilizing the economy



by leaving the Ruble zone. It introduced its own national currency, the Sorn, and adopted an ambitious
stabilization program supported by an IMF Stand-by arrangement and access to the STF. The stabilization
program targeted a drastic cut in the fiscal defi, from 14 percent of GDP in 1992 to 7 percent in 1993,
and strict controls on monetary expansion to curb inflation and support the credibility of the new
currency. A floating exchange rate and market-determnn,ed interest rate policies were adopted.
it.          The stabilization program was successfully implemented through the first quarter of the
program (by the end of June 1993). Credit expansion and the budget deficit were ke,pt within the
program limits, and there was a downward trend in inflation.. During the remainder of 1993, the
Government continued its tight control over-the budget, despite a sharp decline in tax revenue. Estimates
show a reduction in budget deficit from about 14 percent of GDP in 1992, to about 8.7 percent in 1993,
close to the program target. Notwithstanding the progress in fiscal policy, the Government was not able
to sustain tight monetary control because of lack of progress in restructuring the enterprise sector.
Despite loss of markets, many enterprises continued producing for -inventories and avoided labor
shedding. Unviable enterprises have managed to survive through accumulating arrears to suppliers,
particularly to the energy complex. They also defaulted on bank debts while continuing to receive new
credits from banks they owned, or state-owned banks. Thus, the financial problems of ailing enterprises
spilled over to other enterprises, banks, and the Central Bank -- the National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK).
The pressures on the Government and the NBK mounted, finally leading to a temporary relaxation in
monetary control. Between August and October, 1993, the NBK provided large amounts of directed
credits to the enterprise sector leading to more than doubling of NBK credits. Due to this expansion,
monetary targets set for September and December were exceeded and inflation increased to over 30
percent a month. As a result, the IMF was unable to complete the second performance review.
12.          After October 1993 the NBK regained monetary control and a tight monetary stance has
been maintained througn the first quarter of 1994. As a result, there has been a clear downward trend
in inflation, and the monthly rate which was 16 percent in December 1993, fell to 7 percent in March
1994 and 5 percent in April. At the same time the Government's revenue performance continued to
deteriorate as a result of continued exemptions granted to a significant segment of the enterprise sector,
and agriculture and increasing liquidity problems which led to accumulation of enterprise arrears both
to each other and to the Government. In May 1994, an IMF mission visited the country with a view to
help the Government put the stabilization program back on track, and to agree on a three-year program
to be supported by a first Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The program negotiations
were successfully concluded, and it is expected that the program will be submitted for IMF Board
approval, in late June, 1994.
C. Strucural Reforms (1992-93)
13.          In July 1992, the Government announced a comprehensive reform program covering
privatization, enterprise and financial sector reforms, rationalization of subsidies, elimination of controls
in- pricing, trade and distribution, and an overhaul of the legal system. The program also envisaged
putting in place a social safety net to alleviate partially the hardship of transition inflicted on vulnerable
groups of the population,
14.          In the implementation of reforms, the highest priority was given to a rapid privatizaiion
of state-owned Enterprises (SOEs), particularly in services and industry. A Privatization Law was
approved in July 1992 and a Privatization Concept Note (Concept Note '92) was adopted by Parliament
in December 1992. A program fo- 1992-93 was developed targeting privatization of 35 percent of fixed



-6-
assets in the enterprise sector by the end of 1993. By September 1993, about 3,000 enterprises,
accounting for about 26 percent of all fixed enterprise assets, had been partially oI totally privatized. A
program for conversion of state and cooperative farms into smaller private farms was also adopted in
1992. About 10,000 private farms were created during the initiat phase of implementation. Due to unfair
practices in distribution of assets, unclear lease holding rights, and lack of support services for new
private farms, the implementation of the program was suspended in early 1993 with a view to developing
a more comprehensive agricultural reform program.
15.          In parallel, the Government has achieved some progress in eliminating distortions in the
economy and creating an enabling environment for private sector development. Most institutional barriers
to private sector participation in trade and distribution were eliminated by the end of 1992, except for key
tradeable goods (wool, tobacco, cottoii, and wheat) which until recently remained subject to state orders.
There are virtually no restrictions on imports, and foreign exchange surrender obligations on exports were
abolished in September 1992. Export quotas and license requirements, however, were retained until
recently for a reduced list of commodities. All explicit subsidies except on bread and baby food were
eliminated, and increases in the import price of petroleum and natural gas were passed on to consumers.
16.          Financial sectof reforms were initiated by establishing a two-tier bankinr, aystem. A new
Central Bank Charter and a new Banking Law were enacted, granting the NBK increased monetary and
supervisory powers. These laws, supported by prudential regulations, laid the basis for the potential
transformation ot specialized and state-owned banks into modern market-oriented entities. Lack of
progress in restructuring SOEs, and in imposing a hard budget constraint and effective governance of
large loss-making enterprises, negated the efforts to reform the banking system. Large state-owned banks
remain burdened iuy non-performing loans to SOEs, and therefore, are facing severe liquidity and
insolvency problems.
17.          In the past, social assistance had been provided through the traditional untargeted
programs characteristic of the FSU, including substantial subsidies on bread. In 1993, the Government
took measures to partially target social assistance. Eligibility for child allowances was limited to families
with three or more children, bread subsidies were reduced and cash compensation was introduced for
families with a household income below the minimum wage. The Government is working, with the
assistance of the Bank, on a program for better targeting of social assistance.
D. The Need for Continued Stabilization and Adjustment
18.          The Republic is entering its third year of independence with reduced inflation but a
drasticaly lower per capita income, and a large currert account deficit. Given the country's economic
structure and uncertain pro-pects for its major exports, tiere is no realistic prospect for a strong recovery
in the short run. While the country has already endured painful cuts in personal income and consumption,
a prolonged period of adjustment will be unavoidable. Output is expected to decline further by around
5 percent in 1994 and to level off in 1995.
19.          The Kyrgyz authorities are cognizant of the fact that setbacks in reform efforts will
further prolong the adjustment period, and deprive the countrv of much needed external financial
assistance. Therefore, they intend to intensify stabilization efforts, and reorient and deepen structural
reforms. In November 1993, the Government submitted to Parliament a proposed Program for
Deepening Economic Reforms and Plan-Projections for the Kyrgyz Economy in 1994-95. The program



-7-
was discussed and approved by Parliament in January 1994. Further progress on reforms has occurred
in the last few months (see Part III).
20.          In the short-term, as set out in the proposed Program, the priority is to achieve
macroeconomic stability on a sustainable basis, and contain fiurther deterioration in living standards. For
this purpose, the authorities intend to continue the control over monetary expansion through acting
decisively to restructure or close down inso'vent SOEs, and develop effective instruments of financial
discipline on SOEs that will remain temporarily 'inder government ownership. To sustain tight fiscal
controls, the authorities intend to increase signi.icantly the revenue effort, principally through
strengthened tax administration and coliection, and to rationalize social safety net expenditures by better
lu  ting of benefits.
21.          Over the medium term, the Republic's primary objective is to reverse tle sharp decline
in output, strengthen export capacity, anti reduce dependence on imported gas and oil, so as to move
progressively toward a sustainable balance of payments position. This will require a dynamic private
sector and substantial improvements in the incentive structure for all economic activities. To achieve
these goals, the authorities intend to continue with an improved privatization effort and aim to restore
dynanism to the economy based on the twin pillars of private sector development and export expansion.
In particular, they intend to improve incentives for the recovery and expansion of agricultural and
industrial exports through a market-based and unified exchange rate system, continued evhange and tre*de
liberalization, price deregulation, tax reform and market penetration within and outside the FSU. The
Government will also intensify efforts for oil exploration and energy substitution and conservation. The
State trading and marketing institutions will be privatized as part of the 1994-95 Privatization Program,
with prior restructuring to reduce monopolistic concentration, if necessary. The private sector will be
encouraged to participate in trade throughout the economy. The authorities also intend to improve the
legal and regulatory framework to protect property rights, eliminate entry/exit barriers and attract
domestic and foreign investors. Finally, the Government plans to take actions to address its serious
institutional capacity constraints. These include measures to strengthen economic managemet in key
institutions and ministries, particularly the NBK, State Property Fund, the State Committee for the
Economy, and the Ministries of Agriculture, Industry, and Trade.
E. Balance of Payments Prospects and Exrnl Capital Requiremnnts
22.          The Kyrgyz economy will continue to face structural balance of payments deficits for
many years to come. The structural adjustment it has embarked on will be slow in bringing about major
improvements in the external balance, and hence the country will require continued enal fincial
support. In 1994, further increases are likely in the price of imported petroleum and natural gas from
the current level of around 60 to 80 percent of world prices. Starting in 1995, at the grace periods of
the external debt to FSU countries and the EU expire, the country will face a substantial debt service
burden.
23.          A very gradual increase in exports of selected manufactures, electricity, and traditional
agricultural commodities could be achieved with industrial restructuring and improvements in payment
systems and trade relations with the major trade partners. Penetration into non-FSU markets is also likely
to be gradual in the short-term. Exports and transit trade of goods from other FSU countries to China
are a potential source of expansion. In particular, there are prospects for exports of processed leather,
meat (or livestock), and minerals to other non-FSU countries. Preliminary projections indicate ant
increase in the export of goods and non-factor services from US$335 million in 1993 to US$367 million



in 1994, and further to USS417 million in 1996. A significant portion of the increase is estimated to
result from price increases, particularly in hydro-power exports.
24.          The Kyrgyz economy imports almost all of its oil and natural gas needs. Due to a rapid
increase in prices, the share of imported energy in terms of the total import bill has increaed from about
10 percent in 1991 to about 30 percent in 1993, despite an estimated 40 percent decline in its volume.
During the last two years, due to lack of external financing, non-energy imports have been compressed
to essential minimums, i.e., foodstuff, feedstuff, and medicine.
25.         In the 1994-96 period, the projected increase in imported energy prices will add over
US$40 million to the current annual energy imports of US$170 million, even if, as projected, energy
consumption is further cut back and domestic energy, mainly electricity and partly coal, is substituted for
imported oil and natural gas. As a result, total import requirements are estimated to increase from about
US$500 million in 1993 to about US$590 million in 1994 and about US$630 million in 1996.
26.          The Kyrgyz Republic had transferred its share in FSU external debt to Russia under a
"zero option" agreement signed in 1992. However, in mid-1993, it converted previous Ruble credits and
balances on correspondent accounts with Rus.ia, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan into SDR or US dollar
denominated debt, equivalent to about US$168 million, atLIBOR plus I or 2 interest rate, with maturities
ranging from three to five years, and grace periods not exceeding 18 months. As of the end of 1993,
together with the external borrowing in the year, the country has about US$285 miHlion of outstanding
external debt, equivalent to about 18 percent of GDP. Due to short grace periods for the FSU debt and
as the Republic will have to repay in one installment in 1995 a US$27.8 million loan from the European
Union, debt service payments are estimated to average about US$95 million in 1995-96, which is
equivalent to about 25 percent of estimated export earnings. To avoid a further increase in the debt
service burden, the Republic will need to borrow largely at concessional terms and to seek debt
rescheduling, if concessional aid falls short of requirements.
27.          Medium-term projections indicate a trade deficit of around US$225 million in 1994,
slightly declining to US$215 million by 1996. The deficit in the services account is expected to widen
on account of rising interest payments. The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) for 1994
is projected at about US$303 million, and to decline to around US$265 million by 1996. External
financing requirements are estimated at around US$323 million for 1994, and are expected to increase
to around US$380 million in 1995 before declining to about US$350 million in 1996.
28.          Over the 1994-96 period, the Kyrgyz Republic wil require total external financing of
about US$1,050 million, on a disbursement basis. During this three-year period, disbursements from
exitng commitments are estimated at US$194 million (US$143 million in 1994 and US$51 million in
1995). Disbursements from predictable new commitments (about US$100-150 million per year) are
projected to be around US$400 million, of which approximately US$350 million could be
quick-disbursing, including the proposed PESAC. Foreign direct investment flows are expected to remain
low, totaling only about US$65 million over the next three years. The Kyrgyz Republic will seek to
finance the remaining gap of approximately US$390 million by bilateral grants and potential new
concessional loans from bilateral and multilateral sources (Annexes I through m). In order to secure
these levels of financing on a 'disbursement' basis, the country will need to build up a pipeline of
commitments, at substantially higher levels.



F. Bank Group Assistance Strategy
29.          The Bank Group will continue to play a leading role in assisting the Government to design
and implement its structural and sectoral reform programs, to move the economy towards sustainable
long-term growth and to ease the social costs of adjustment. The Bank Group will undertake this role
by backing up its policy dialogue with economic and sector work, by implementing a lending program
that combines adjustment and investment lending in a balanced manner, and by facilitating aid
mobilization and coordination.
30.          The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Kyrgyz Republic was presented to the
Board in May 1993. There have been no major changes in the Bank's strategy. The Bank Group over
the next few years will provide early and strong support to the Government in the following priority
areas: (i) Macroeconomic stabilization; (ii) Structural reforms through privatization, reform and
restructuring of SOEs, and financial sector reforms; (iii) Creation of a favorable policy and regulatory
environment for private sector development; (iv) Provision of an effective social safety net; (v) Sector
reforms in agriculture, energy, infrastructure, mining and environment; and (vi) Institution building and
reinforcement of the Government's implementation capacity.
31.          The lending program provides for a strong reform case scenario in which the Bank
Group would lend around US$80 to 90 million per year over the period FY94-96. The Bank's lending
program would include a policy-based operation each year in a priority reform area. This would be
supported by investment lending operations in agriculture, energy, telecommumnications and social
protection. The Bank Group assistance would be substantially on BDA terms given the country's low
income level and the unfavorable balance of payments outlook, which requires lending on highly
concessional terms.
32.          So far the Association has made one credit to the Kyrgyz Republic, in May 1993. The
Rehabilitation Credit (US$60 million, including a Technical Assistance component of US$7 million) was
designed to meet the Kyrgyz Republic's immediate needs to help stabilize the economy through:
(i) financing critical imports in key sectors, thus easing the shortage of foreign exchange, and thereby
halting the decline in output and trade; CiH) developing foreign exchange markets and enhancing private
sector access to foreign exchange; and Ciii) assisting the Government in the design and implementation
of structural and sectoral reforms by providing technical assistance in key areas, as well as strengthening
institutional capacity. The foreign exchange component has been disbursed, while the implementation
and disbursement of other components is in progress. Although there have been some delays in
disbursement, as the Kyrgyz Republic is a new borrower and has needed to become familiar with Bank
procedures such as international competitive bidding, overall, the implementation of the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
33.          The proposed PESAC is fully consistent with the strong reform case of the Country
Assistance Strategy. It will build on the general reform program set out in the Rehabilitation Credit, but
concentrate on a more specific and detailed set of reforms associated with the redirection of the
privatization program: liquidation or passive restrucWring of LLMEs; improved governance and improved
financial performance of SOEs that will remain temporarily under government ownership; and removal
of market imperfections for the development of a dynamic private sector. One of the objectives of the
proposed PESAC is to remove the non-performing loans generated by the LLMEs from the portfolios of
the banking system. Given both the need to move further first on real sector reforms and the extremely
weak position of the banking system, the Reform Program to be supported by the proposed PESAC does



-10 -
not tackle the banking sector reforms any further at this stage. Issues related to financial infrastructure
are being addressed currently under the IMF-supported programs (financial legislation and prudential
regulations); and the TA provided by USAID (bank accounting and supervision); EBRI) (payment system
and bank auditing); and IDAlRehabilitation Credit (bank diagnostic studies and staff training).  The
IDA-Private Enterprise Support Project, scheduled for FY95, will provide further TA to commercial
banks., Improvements in financial infrastructure will be followed by bankingffinancial sector reforms.
supported by a self-standing Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), scheduled tentatively for FY96.
34.          The FY94 lending program includes one other operation, a Telecomnmunications Project
USSs18 million) which will help to improve communications within and outside the country. Better
access to a higher quality and variety of telecommunication services will help to improve business
productivity and competitiveness, public sector efficiency, and facilitate improvements in delivery of
social services. Negotiations have also been concluded for a Social Safety Net Project (US$20 million),
which will be submitted for Board approval in early FY95. This projec. will support the Government
in designing and delivering targeted social assistance, monitoring poverty, and developing a program for
divesting social assets of enterprises. It will also strengthen institutional capacity in employment and
training services in anticipation of the inevitable increase in unemployment which will accompany
enterprise restructuring.
35.          [FC Operations. The Kyrgyz Republic became a member of the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) on February 11, 1993, and was admitted to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
Association (MIGA) on September 21, 1993. IFC will play a major role, together with IDA, on the
Private Enterprise Support Project (FY95), as well as in the mobilization of private foreign investment
in the tourism, electronic, and mining sectors.
36.          Relations with the E1F. On May 12, 1993, the Executive Board approved an I I-month
stand-by arrangement in an amount equal to SDR27.09 million and the first purchase of SDR16.125
million under the STF. Following the approval, the Kyrgyz Republic made a first purchase of SDR9.675
million under the stand-by arrangement together with the first purchase under the STF. Following the
successful performance during the first quarter of the program, the second purchases under the stand-by
arrangement and the STF were approved in September 1993. The third and fourth purchases which were
originally scheduled for December 1993 and March 1994 were not approved due to the slippage in
meeting monetary and fiscal performance targets. Negotiations with the authorities on a three-year
program to be supported by a first ESAF were successfully concluded in early June, 1994. For this
purpose, in May 1994 the Government agreed with the IMF and the Bank on a PFP, which was recently
approved by the management of both institutions.
PART H. ADJUSTM             AT THE ENTERPRISE LEVEL: THE KEY ISSUE
A. Introduction
37.           The most fundamental issue faced today by the Kyrgyz Republic's SOEs is how to escape
from their heritage as part of a command economy. SOEs have rarely faced true competition or felt the
need to take initiatives to sell their products. The sheltered markets until recently have obviated the need
to minimize costs. Even now the SOEs make little effort to operate more efficiently and prefer to turn
to the state for budget support. The enterprise sector in the Kyrgyz Republic will have to undergo major
reform and restructuring to respond to the ongoing adjustments in relative prices and the pattern of



-11~-
demand and financing that was so heavily dominated by links to the FSU. These negative external shocks
will be compounded by falling domestic demand and the imposition of tighter financial and fiscal
constraints, with managements' emphasis shifting from fulfilling plan targets or state orders, to generating
profits in line with an increasingly private seaor orientation. The establishment of new firms, the
liquidation of unviable enterprises, and the restructuring of existing firms that are considered potentially
viable, are thus top priorities.
38.          The Kyrgyz Republic has moved rapidly to privatize state enterprises. However, little
progress has been made to transform either the newly privatized enterprises, or those which are still state-
owned, into economic entities responding to market signals, for the following reasons:
a.    the privatization strategy has been confined to the transfer of large blocks of shares in
enterprises being privatized to their existing managers and workers, collectively. This
option has not been conducive to improving efficiency, as it contributed to dilution of
incentives to individual shareholders to maxim;ze the return on capital, and gave control
of the enterprises to those which were most iticlined to resist painful restructuring and
labor shedding; and
b.    insufficient attention has been paid to reforning those enterprises remaining either fully
or majority state-owned. Indeed, little has been done (i) to improve internal governance;
and, (i) to promote financial efficiency by hardening the budget constraint, and
implementing exit mechanisms for the failing SOEs.
39.          As a consequence, the performance of newly privatized enterprises has been
disappointing, and serious financial disorders have emerged both among SOEs and in the banking system.
Most budgetary subsidies and subsidized credits from the central bank to SOEs have been eliminated.
However, significant amounts of directed credits have still been channelled to loss-making enterprises
through the banking system. The Government's efforts to stay within planned credit ceilings combined
with large directed credits from the commercial banks to the SOEs have sharply reduced credit
availability to many deserving viable enterprises. Moreover, inter-enterprise arrears have re-emerged on
a large scale after an extensive clean up exercise in early 1993. Overdue loan repayments to the
commercial banks have also increased, leading to a serious liquidity or insolvency problem in commercial
banks. The attempt by the central bank to clear accumulated enterprise arrears in mid-1993 resulted in
a significant monetary expansion, and compromised the stabilization objective.
40.          Progress on imposing financial discipline on ailing enterprises will be critical to the
success of stabilization. The most important steps in gaining control of the situation are to continme with
prudent fiscal and monetary policies, and focus on the worst offenders through a special SOE
restructuring/liquidation program. Further delays will only lead to an escalation of the costs Of transition.
B. Issues in Privatization Strate
41.          As early as December 1991, the basic law 'The Privatization and Denationalization Act"
established a clear line of property ownership, vesting all productive property in the Republic. A January
1992 decree set forth a program for corporatization and privatization to be carried out by the State
Property Fund (SPF). In practice, however, there were problems and delays in implementing the reform
program due to defacto control of enterprise by management and workers and conflicting legal provisions
-vhich were the residuals of earlier Union reforms. In December 1992, Parliament approved a few mid-



-12 -
course corrections proposed in the Concept Note on Privatization (Concept Note '92) which envisaged
rapid sale of small-scale enterprises, and mass privatization of medium- and large-scale enterprises
through competitive methods.
42.          The speed of privatization to date has been impressive. As of February 1994, over 33
percent of the country's total fixed assets had been totally or partially privatized. Seventy percent of all
privatized assets have been privatized through creation of joint stock companies. Through the SPF, the
State still owns 47 percent of the equity of these joint stock companies, 46 percent is owned by labor
collectives, and 7 percent by various other shareholders. The rapid pace of privatization however, has
been achieved at the cost of quality. The privatization process so far has continued to be dominated by
transfer of a significant percentage of assets to labor collectives without a competitive process or market
oriented share pricing. This strategy retarded adjustment at the enterprise level of privatized enterprises.
Implemenitation of mass privatization through a voucher system has not yet taken place, although 75
percent of the population is reported to have received SMPs (Special Means of Payments - Vouchers).
Only 0.7 percent of the assets have been privatized through competitive sales.
43.          Lack of Incentives for Efficiency Improvements.  One of the key objectives of
privatization was to allow the new owners to improve governance and operational efficiency of the
enterprises being privatized. However, where existing labor and managers own the majority of the shares
or the entire enterprise, acquired almost free of charge, efficiency improvements are expected to be
limited. In the absence of personal funds or capital at stake, the collectives that own their enterprises
have taken a short-term view of their ownership rights and have so far resisted enterprise restructuring.
They have also exhibited a tendency to reward themselves through bonuses and other benefits which were
then used for personal consumption, rather than to provide self-financing for investment in their
enterprises. All these actions have lead to asset stripping and inadequate asset maintenance in privatized
enterprises.
44.          Restrictions on Individual Property Rights. Most of the recently privatized enterprises
have been in the form of 'closed" Joint Stock Companies (JSCs). These require that, on leaving the
enterprises, employees must return the share(s) to the collectives. This makes it impossible for collective
members to trade or sell shares to outsiders. In addition, the decision regarding the percentage
distribution of the shares between management and the various categories of personnel rests with each
workers' collective. Without strict legal guidelines, this process has been open to manipulation by
influential groups within the enterprises, namely the old management teams. Lack of rights of individuals
to possess, use and dispose of their shares freely runs against the spirit of new Constitution, which has
just clarified individual property rights.
45.          Business Restrictions. In a number of instances, privatized enterprises have been legally
prohibited from changing their existing production lines by clauses incorporated in the privatization
contracts signed by the SPF.
46.          Lack of Transparency and Equity. Decisions on privatization and evaluation of assets
have been made subjectively, at the discretion of the representatives of the SPF, the collectives and SOE
management in meetings of the Privatization Committees which were set up on a case by case basis at
the time of privatization. As a result, the labor collectives (including managers) have been able to obtain
assets at extremely generous terms. This has contributed to a widespread perception of unfairness with
a potential to jeopardize the political support for privatization.



-13-
C. Issues in SOE Performance
47.          lack of Effective Governance and Oversight. SOEs in the Kyrgyz Republic are still
structured according to the system that prevailed during the planned economy era, and virtually all the
various forms of enterprises thus come under either a ministry or a concern (a holding company vested
with the powers of a ministry). The SOE sector in the Kyrgyz Republic is divided into non-privatized
enterprises (100 percent government-owned), and enterprises whose minority equity has been divested
under the ongoing privatization programs. The managements of the fully government-owned enterprises
(SOEs) still report directly to their ministries and concerns, and operate under the institutional
arrangements which characterized the former command economy. Most enterprises in the latter category
have undergone conversion to JSC status. Under the JSC Law of 1991, and the subsequently issued
Regulations on Corporatization, each JSC formed in the Kyrgyz Republic is required to have a
management board reporting to a board of directors, which in turn is responsible to the shareholder
assembly. The SPF has the legal responsibility to hold the state shares and represent the State's interests
in JSCs. However, the SPF has to date concentrated almost exclusively on its privatization activity, to
the detriment of its portfolio management function.
48.          LAck of Hard Budget Constraint. Since 1991, many enterprises have lost their domestic
and export markets, either temporarily or permanently. However, they have continued producing,
accumulating inventories, and paying wages, hence incurring losses. Enterprise losses have increased
also as a result of existing economic policies. Some enterprises were obliged to bear at least a part of
the burden of price controls as government budget support was either insufficient to cover the difference
between production and sales costs, or non-existent. Most enterprises were obliged to bear the cost of
social benefits provided to their workforces which are not ordinarily associated with productive activities.
49.          Impact on the Banldng System. The worsening financial performance of the SOEs has
adversely affected the liquidity and the soundness of the banking system, particularly of the three largest
banks: Agroprom, AKB Kyrgyzstan, and Promstroi. These banks accounted for 81 percent of the loan
portfolio of the banking system in mid-1993. In the absence of moder..    'nting standards and
practices in the banks and enterprises, it is not possible to estimate with any ac#.~ .y the extent of SOE
losses or the solvency of the major banks. However, it is widely known that most banks are in a very
uncertain financial condition and are afflicted with extensive non-performing loans to enterprises which
are also their major shareholders.
D. Policy and Regulatory Bariers to Entrprise Efficiency and Private Sector Development
50.          A thriving private sector is a critical ingredient of transition from a command to a market
economy. Assuring competitive markets and encouraging newly emerging private entrepreneurs to invest
and innovate will absorb redundant labor and increase dynamic efficiency. The Kyrgyz authorities
support the development of a strong, efficient, and competitive private sector. The continuing efforts to
restore macroeconomic stability, and the exchange and trade policy reforms implemented thus far, have
been beneficial to private sector activity. However, the private sector in the Republic still faces
significant constraints. These include excessive government intervention in pricing and distribution; a
legal framework that is not fully developed and consistent; a financial system that is structured primarily
to channel subsidized credit to state enterprises; and a limited infrastructure for business development.
Issues related to private sector development (PSD) cannot be fully dealt with in the context of the
proposed Credit. However, removal of key policy and regulatory constraints listed below will help



-14 -
improve enterprise efficiency, whether these are private or state-owned, and help create a market
environment in which private initiative can flourish.
51.          Price Controls. In January 1992 most explicit price controls were liberalized, with limits
placed on some core consumption items. However, the flexibility of the price system has been impeded
by a set of subsequent state interventions.
52.          Direct Price Controls. At the beginning of 1993, explicit price controls, aimed at
preserving a social safety net, were restricted only to bread, utilities, and public transportation. A
new draft law on the limitation of monopolies and the development and protection of competition was
prepared in February 1993. This law vested substantial powers in the Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC)
to combat non-competitive behavior, while leaving the definition of what constitutes a monopoly to an
annual decision of the Comnmittee. The practice in 1993 was to use a guideline of 35 percent of market
share. While the law envisaged a range of interventions, the practice focussed on control of the output
prices of companies that have been identified as 'monopolies'. Under the reform program to be
supported by the proposed PESAC, the AMC reduced the number of companies identified as monopolies
from 71 to 50 in September 1993, and to 15 in March 1994 including the 6 natural monopolies
(electricity, utilities, etc). This reduction represented a positive step, as did the identification of natural
monopolies, where a form of regulation will remain necessary for some time. However, as of March
1994, 9 large enterprises outside the natural monopolies were stil! subject to direct price controls. These
price controls, if maintained, would reduce incentives for the enterprise managers to minimize costs,
improve quality and productivity and compete in prices. They would also create distortions in the
allocation and use of resources, and deter private sector entry.
53.           The extent of direct price controls increased significantly with the re-introduction of trade
margins (mark-up ceilings) in June, 1993. These trade margins, which applied to all traded goods, until
recently, at the wholesale and retail levels, were enforced both through the tax inspectorate and via the
control of the AMC over the approval of price increases. Where such limits were enforceable, they
effectively rendered internal trade in many goods unprofitable, to the detriment of both consumers and
producers.
54.          Indirect Price Controls. Until recently, a wide range of indirect price controls have also
been imposed through the compulsory state orders and domestic supply contrat. These orders and
contracts were enforced under various pieces of legislation and through by-laws specifying the trading
responsibilities of enterprises producing a wide range of goods. By defining the relationship between
enterprises in terms of the quantities and type of goods to be supplied, these contracts effectively sidelined
the role of the price system. The state order system collapsed during the second half of 1993, mainly
as a result of shortage of government revenue. The by-laws (Number 645 and 649) enforcing the
compulsory adherence to domestic supply contracts remained on the statute books, though these were no
longer enforced diligently.
55.          Trade Restrictions. The collapse of the state order system in 1993 contributed to some
liberalization of trade. However, intermittent attempts have been made to reinforce the role of tha State,
and a logical progression towards a liberal trading environment has not yet been established, except
recently.
56.          Export Licenses. The Republic is currently committed to two Clearing Arrangements
with Russia and Uzbekistan which involve 80 percent of total exports. Until recently, if producers



-15-
wished to export outside the Clearing Arrangements, they were required to obtain export licenses.
Moreover, the number of licenses granted was deliberately restricted to ensure that only production in
excess of that required for local use and for the Clearing Arrangements is exported. For many producers
of raw materials, this practice reduced the choice of selling goods only domestically or through the
Clearing arrangements. Trade reforms in late 1993 have focussed on the reduction in the number of
goods requiring licensing from 50 to 31. However the list of 31 goods still covered some of the Kyrgyz
Republic's most important exports.
57.          Export Taxes. Exporters of raw materials were, until recently, subject to heavy export
taxes, which did not apply to produce sold directly into Clearing Arrangements. Under the reform
program to be supported by the proposed PESAC, significant reductions were introduced in a number
of export duty rates. However, export duties on some raw materials remained at punitive levels (as high
as 70 percent on wool, cotton, and hides) until May 1994. While these duties acted as an incentive for
producers to participate in Clearing Arrangements, they also acted as a serious disincentive both to
production for export and to the development of flexible private sector marketing channels. The
long-term viability of the Kyrgyz economy rests heavily on its ability to address the, fundamental
imbalance between its import demand and export capacity. A key area of focus for economic policies
must therefore be the development of export industries and the promotion of flexible marketing channels.
58.         1Legal and Regulatory Barriers. In recent years, a major legislative effort has been
undertaken in the Kyrgyz Republic with a view to the development of a basic legal framework within
which private sector businesses might develop as efficient and productive market-oriented enterprises.
Much of what might be described as the "first wave" of legislation, however, was produced in a very
limited time and without full consideration of either individual laws or the manner in which each law
affected other laws. At the current stage of the development of the market economy in the Republic,
particularly in the light of the new Constitution adopted in May 1993, it is appropriate and necessary that
existing legislation be reviewed and improved and important pieces of legislation now missing be passed,
so that the development of a flourishing and productive private sector may continue in an orderly fashion
within a clearly defined framework of laws and regulations.
59.          The adoption of the new Constitution has been a landmark event in Kyrgyz legal history.
The new Constitution (i) explicitly recognizes private property; (ii) guarantees the diversity of property
forms and their equal protection by law; (iii) defends the rights of citizens and legal persons to own
property; and (iv) guarantees the right of inheritance. While these are important steps forward for the
development of the private sector, amendments have been required urgently in the laws on the following
subjects to improve the legal environment: (a) JSCs; (b) Lease; (c) Insolvency; (d) Foreign Investment;
and (e) Anti-Monopoly Legislation. The requirement for a single registry, which should be easily
accessible to the public, for companies, pledges and real property also needed to be included in the laws
on lease and pledge and in the )SC Law. A new Company Legislation is needed. Furthermore, adequate
legislative and judiciary measures will need to be taken regarding enforcement of contractual rights.
E. Social Costs of Adjustment
60.          As enterprise level adjustnent accelerates, it will in the short-term adversely affect the
living conditions of some segments of the population. Enterprise -reform and restructuring is projected
to result in a substantial increase in open unemployment, from about 1 percent of the labor force in 1993,
to about 4 percent at the end of 1994. It may increase further to as much as 10 percent by 1996. The
Kyrgyz authorities recognize that the best way to provide for a sustained improvement in living standards



-16-
of its population is through economic expansion, led by a dynamic private sector, in a low inflation
envirormnent. However, an adequate social safety net is necessary to protect the unemployed and
ameliorate the short-term social costs of adjustment.
61.          Protection of the unemployed and maintenance of the political mandate to continue with
the thrust of the reform program is one of the most difficult tasks confronting the Govermnent. As a
cornerstone of the Soviet system, the State spent around 30 percent of GDP on social services. It
provided extensive health care and education as well as financial support through family allowances and
pensions. Many of these services were provided to employees by SOEs. The State also provided a
system of job guarantees that, in combination with soft budget constraints on SOEs, led to overstaffing
and inefficiencies in the management of SOEs. A major part of the restructuring process in social
protection, over the next several years, will concern the shift of the SOE responsibility for health and
education to the Government, which will need help assumirng responsibilities for these primary services.
In addition, appropriate measures will be needed to ensure that unemployed workers receive adequate
unemployment compensation, and proactive assistance in training and finding new jobs.
HI. PROPOSED PRIVATIZATION AN1D ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMEWT PROGRAM
A. Objectives and Scope
62.          The lack of adjustment at the enterprise level is creating an unsustainable drain on the
country's financial resources, endangering the solvency of the banking system, and seriously undermining
the stabilization objective. The challenge ahead is to raise economic efficiency in the allocation and use
cf resources, based on competitive market principles. Thus, policy reforms to accelerate privatization,
liquidate unviable enterprises and improve the efficiency and performance of SOEs that will remain
temporarily in state ownership, form the core of the Government's reform program.
63.          The preferred strategy for dealing with most state-owned enterprises is to privatize them
and allow the new owners to identify and finance restructuring initiatives. However, it is recognized that
the privatization of larger, complex, and unprofitable firms will take time. In the interim period of state
ownership, the scale of the current and potential problems of loss-making enterprises cannot be left
unchallenged. Left to their own devices, the loss-making enterprises are unlikely to return to viability.
The capacity of existing managers and management boards to carry out the required downsizing, split-
ups, and search for new partners, marketing strategies, and technologies, is questionable at best. Not
much guidance can be expected from either the line ministries, as they do not have the managerial
expertise, or from the banking system, still in infancy. Accordingly, while immediate privatization
constitutes the preferred option in the Government's reform program, the program also includes setting
up an appropriate institution, with a significant input of technical assistance, to handle the orderly phasing
out of unviable large SOEs, or of their obsolete and unviable components, with a view to facilitate their
privatization at a later stage.
64.          Specifically, the Reform Program to be supported by the proposed credit covers actions
in five key areas: (t) continued privatization of the State's productive assets, particularly in industry,
wholesale and retail trade, and transport; (ii) transformation of SOEs into modern corporate forms to
provide an institutional framework conducive to the enhancement of productivity, economic efficiency,
and financial performance; -(iii) liquidation or downsizing of LLMEs that are a heavy burden on the
economy and on the Government's finances; (iv) price and trade liberalization, de-monopolization and



-17-
legislative reforms essential for effective functioning of a market economy; and (v) establishment of
financially viable, well targeted, and efficient programs of social protection to alleviate the social costs
of adjustment.
B. The New Privatization Strategy
65.          The Government, under the Reform Program, has prepared a new Concept Note (Concept
Note '93) and a new Privatization Law ('93) with a view to improving the quality of the privatization
process. In addition, a draft Privatization Program for 1994-95 has been prepared. The objectives are
to ensure that, in the future, the methods of privatization will be transparent, competitive, conducive to
achieving increased economic efficiency, and involve the widest possible segment of the population. The
main features of the new approach are: (i) free use of individual shareholding rights; (ii) commitment to
auction off a proportion of shares against vouchers; (iii) commitment to reduce state control over
privatized enterprises, and (iv) systematic use of competitive methods of privatization for all categories
of enterprises.
Free Use of Individual Shareholding Rights
66.      The Government under the Reform Program has instructed the SPF to allow free exercise of
individual share-holding property rights by members of the labor collectives and ban "closed" forms of
JSCs. This directive will be applied retroactively to already privatized enterprises where the SPF holds
the two-third majority of the shares, enabling it to modify the company charter. In addition, the
Government has instructed the SPF to eliminate from privatization contracts already concluded, any
restrictions on the range of business activities that can be undertaken by privatized enterprises, and to
revise the new Privatization Law to the effect that no such restrictions can be placed in any future
privatization contracts. The role of the labor collectives under the new program will be limited. To
avoid any disaffection among workers, the collectives will be entitled to a free distribution of a maximum
of 5 percent of shares in all privatized enterprises.
Auction of Shares Against Vouchers
67.          Under the new Concept Note (Concept Note '93), the Government has decided to use
Special Means of Payments as the main instrument for the mass privatization program in 1994-95, by
reserving at least 25 percent of the shares of medium- and large-scale enterprises to be privatized for SMP
auctions. This will help meet one of the Government's key objectives of widespread distribution of
ownership. It would also give a boost to investment funds, whose role so far has been minimal in
acquiring shares of privatized enterprises. The new Concept Note also allows Government to attract core
investors, a move conducive to the exercise of effective corporate governance. Indeed, the new proposed
distribution of shares would make it an attractive proposition for institutional and large individual
investors, including foreign ones, to invest in medium and large enterprises as they wiUl now be able to
acquire a controlling interest (up to 70 percent) in those enterprises. To protect SMPs from the impact
of inflation and to make them tradeable before investment, the SPF has begun replacing each holder's
SMP allocation with books of coupons, each coupon being worth a set number of points. Under this
system, only those keen to invest will become shareholders; others will be able to sell their coupons.
This would lead to fewer but larger and perhaps more active/responsible investors. It would also provide
an environment for the evolution of a secondary market.



68.          Under the new strategy, the investment Afnds (IFs) have been assigned an important role
in the operation of the mass privatization program as accumulators of SMPs and lead buyers at auctions.
The Governmen. recognizes that, to be effective in stimulating the market and diversifying their portfolio,
the IFs need to be free from regional or state influence. State organizations are now specifically banned
from being founders or shareholders of any investment fund. No geographical limitations are attached
to the operation of the funds or on the freedom of private entities to set up Investment Funds according
to law. Shares in privatized enterprises reserved for sale under the voucher system will be sold through
auctions where funds will compete against each other, and with other voucher holders. To protect the
interests of inveators, the Government is preparing regulations regarding: (i) the organization, operation,
management of the funds; (ii) the registration of shares; and (iii) the security of shareholders.
Reducing State Control Over Privatized Enterprises
69.          Strong pressure is being exercised by key Ministries, and local administrations, to manage
the State shares which are still held by the SPF on behalf of Govermnent in the already privatized
enterprises. Not only would this prevent a large stock of shares from being mass privatized through the
voucher auction system, but, for all practical purposes, this would amount to the creation or re-
establishment of concerns, i.e., holding companies assuming the sectoral policy and regulatory roles of
m.inistries, in precisely those sectors, trade, construction and transport, where rapid and extensive
privatization is both relatively easy and essential to lay the foundations of a market economy.
70.          Under the Reform Program, the Go iernment has reaffirned its commitment to the
objective of reducing the role of the State in economic activity through large-scale privatization, by
instructing the SPF to sell the state-owned shareg in privatized joint stock companies through competitive
methods no later than the end of 1995. In the interim, the SPF will retain ownership and management
control over these shares.
71.          Before the release of the Second Tranche, the 5PF wil conduct a minmm  of 4
voucher auctions in at least 2 dViferent oblasts for the shares sdU held by the SPF in prvatized JSCs,
covering a minimum of 10 such enterprises at each auction.
Systematic Use of Competitive Methods of Privatization
72.           Under the new Concept Note, competitive methods will be used for all forms of
privatization: (a) small-scale enterprises will be privatized through competitive bids and cash auctions,
and (b) in medium- and large-scale enterprises, members of the workers' collectives will be given 5
percent of the shares for free; up to 70 percent will be offered for sale through competitive tenders to
strategic investors wishing to purchase large blocks of shares; and at least 25 percent of the shares will
be auctioned off against vouchers.
73.          Among the tender terms that will be evaluated, price will be the key selection criteria.
Other criteria may also be considered in exceptional cases. The selection of the winning proposal will
rely on a two step process: (i) all proposals will be evaluated and ranked on the basis of market price
(i.e., the price offered by the potential investors in a fully competitive process). If an investor offers a
purchase price for the enterprise which is clearly above the others (about 10 percent or more), then the
Selection Committee will sell the enterprise to the highest bidder. (ii) In the event that several of the
highest proposals are within, say, a 5 to 10 percent price range of each other, then the business plans of
these competing proposals be evaluated, with each element of the business plan appropriately weighted.



-19-
In this case, the final winner will be the investor which offers a purchase price within the highest range,
and accumulates the highest points (weights) on his business proposal (see Annex IV). Under the Reform
Program the Government will keep the public regularly informed of the progress of the privatization
program and forms of privatization used by the SPF including auction announcements and results in
leading newspapers.
74.          Before the release ofthe Second Tranche, for enterprses stillfully state-owned, the SPF
wil (a) implement three sets of privatization auctions, at least in two oblasts, and invite privatization
proposalsfor a minimum of 70 enteiprises included in the 1994-95 Privatizatlon Program; and wil (b)
submit a reporl to IDA indicating (i) the propontion of enterprises pivatized through auctions, bidding
and competkive privatizaton proposals, and (ii) a plan and dmetable, satisfactoy to DA, for futre
privatizton of state-owned enterprses.
C. Corporatization and Financial Discipline of SOE:s
75.          The reforms in the SOE sector will focus on two related principal areas: (i) improving
corporate and external governance for fully and majority-owned SOEs; and (ii) bringing the financial
relations between the Government and the SOE sector under control, both for purposes of resolving
short-term financial crisis, and for establishing longer-term financial discipline on both sides.
Corporatization
76.           Even with high rates of privatization the state-owned enterprise sector will continue to
play an important role in the economy for some time to come. Under the reform program, all SOEs will
be transformed into JSCs, regardless of the timing of their intended future privatization. This will
transform SOEs that have been under the direct and often interventionist tutelage of Government agencies
into entities that are organized to operate increasingly in a commercial manner.  Moreover,
corporatization will clarify the property rights, legal status and authority of SOEs and will introduce
Boards of Directors to represent the interests of the owners. The Boards of Directors will be given a
management role, and will include outside members not only from the public sector, but also from the
private sector and the professions who are experienced and qualified to make a contribution to the
successfil management of the enterprises.
77.          As an additional step toward modifying the old hierarchical order of corporate units, and
with the further aim of promoting greater competition, corporatization in all forms of conglomerates will
be carried out at the level of the enterprise or other smallest legal entity within them that has a potential
for being a viable business unit. This will entail the break-up of the concerns unless it can be shown that
their structure has important technological or other size-related advantages. It will also be used, to the
extent possible, to break up existing vertically and horizontally integrated complexes so as to increase
competition and economic efficiency.
Enhancement of Fnancia Discipline
78.           As part of the reform program, it is critically important to effectively impose financial
discipline in the SOE sector and to prevent the SOEs from accumulating additional bad debts either to
the banks, or to other enterprises. Specifically, a reoccurrence of the build up of inter-enterprise payables
must be actively discouraged, if the Government is to hope for any reasonable improvement in corporate
financial management. This would be achieved by (i) hardening their budgets through prudent



-20-
management of fiscal and monetary policies at the macro level, and by (ii) "hardening" the payment
system, through the compulsory introduction of a bank draft (or a bankers check) that would be used to
control commercial payments. Such a system would force buyers to only acquire goods and services that
they have the cash to pay for, and would assure sellers that they will receive payment when goods or
services are provided. It would also avoid the problem with pre-payments, where the seller may fail to
deliver goods that have been duly paid for (as in the case of grain). If the buyer does not have the
financial resources needed to acquire inputs, then it will be motivated to cut back production to conform
to its ability to sell its products or services and to improve its sales of existing stock, rather than passing
its financial mismanagement on to its suppliers. Should a company have a legitimate need for working
capital in order to operate, then it would be forced to work with its shareholders to raise capital, or with
its banks to borrow, giving both die opportunity to exercise financial prudence and restraint.
79.          Before the release of the Second Tranche, the Government will implement the 'hard
Payment"l system for au SOEs that wil be put under the responsibility of the Enterpnse Reform and
Resoltdion Agency (ERRA) (see para. 82). Successful inplementation offiancial discipline in these
SOEs should be reflected in nofwlher accumuation of inter-enterprise arrears, debt to the banking
system and/or to the Govemnment.
80.          To monitor the "hard payment" system, the Government will establish a formal PESAP
Working Group, chaired by the State Committee for the Economy, with representatives fromn the NBK,
Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Finance, and the State Property Fund. One of the first tasks
of this group will be to ensure that commercial banks change their existing procedures to implement a
satisfactory draft payment process (see Annex V, Attachment C). IDA will be provided with evidence
that debts of enterprises under ERRA to the Government, the banks and other enterprises have indeed
decreased as a result of the implementation of the system.
D. Liquidation/Restructuring of Large Loss-Making Enterprises (LMEs)
81.          Given the bleak prospects faced by many SOEs, as a result of a combination of factors
- cessation of direct government subsidies, disruption of trade and financial arrangements within the CIS
and increased inability of banks to extend further credits - the Government will use the restructuring
process to deal with LLMEs separately, in order to determine whether to liquidate them or, through
downsizing and restructuring, to reconstitute parts of them into viable entities. The reason for
emphasizing 'large" loss-making enterprises is that they comprise the bulk of the fitancial problems of
the productive sectors. Dealing with the worst offenders as a group will also involve considerable
economies of scale. The program will consist of: (i) orderly liquidation of the inviable enterprises or
components; (ii) rearrangement of the remaining components into commercial entities; and (iii) providing
the resulting entities with reasonable dhances of success by resolving their indebtedness and generally
cleaning up their balance sheets, strengthening the management and giving them clear and realistic
operating programs and targets. While solving the problems of the LLMEs is likely to require a multi-
year effort, with substantial support from the donor community, the liquidation/restructuring program to
be supported by the proposed PESAC will provide the framework and the initial impetus for action in
this important reform area.
The Enterpnse Reform and Resolution Agency (lRA)
82.          To facilitate the liquidation/restructuring of LLMEs, the Government has decided to
establish, under the Office of the Prime Minister, a new high level semi-autonomous agency, the



-21 -
Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA). ERRA will tackle the restructuring/liquidation of
up to 30 LLMEs which are, or are potentially, in serious financial difficulty. A list of 29 enterprises has
been drawn up by the Government. With two exceptions, these enterprises are all majority or fully state-
owned. They have been selected on the basis of their level of indebtedness to the banks and/or to other
enterprises as of January 1, 1994. Although heavily indebted, state-owned utilities have been excluded
from this list, because their restructuring would involve a series of complex pricing and regulatory issues.
Moreover, liquidation would not be a realistic option for these enterprises. However, at the request of
the Government 4 state enterprises, including two utilities (Kyrgyz Gas and Kyrgyz Energy Company)
have been added to the list, below the line. These enterprises, categorized as the "Special Group', will
noA be subject to ERRA's operating principles, but will receive from ERRA policy advice and technical
assistance.
83.          ERRA's primary task will be to oversee the liquidation/passive restructuring of selected
LLMEs within a reasonable time span (on average, no more than three years) and to liquidate unviable
enterprises. Passive restructuring means taking actions to turn an enterprise into profit without new major
investment expenditure. ERRA wil be a lean and temporary agency with a mandate for four years from
the date of its establishment. ERRA will have a Board of Directors appointed by and responsible to
Government for ensuring that the agency performs its functions according to its mandate. ERRA's Board
will be chaired by the First Vice-Prime Minister, and will include Ministers responsible for Industry and
Trade, Agriculture, the Minister of Finance, Chairmen for the State Committee for the Economy,
Governor of the National Bank, Vice Chairman of the State Property Fund and representative(s) from the
commercial banks. The general managers of some of the SOEs could also be co-opted as non-voting
members or observers. The agency will have a full-time chief executive, the Managing Director of
ministerial rank, who will also sit on the Board. The Board will approve the go-ahead on restructuring
plans and liquidations. Members of the Board will also provide advice and support to the Managing
Director on major issues. The Board of ERRA will have sole power and authority to decide on the future
of all enterprises under its responsibility. Its decisions will be binding and will be effected in the name
of the Government and other creditors. ERRA's authority will extend to the appointment of new
management teams in the enterprises, if deemed necessary,
84.          The operations of ERRA will be guided by the following set of fundamental principles:
a.    Restructuring efforts will be limited to enterprises in great financial distress and whose
impact on the survival of other enterprises (through inter-enterprise debt) and/or banks
(via non-performing loans) is most critical. Priority attention will therefore be directed
to those enterprises with the greatest level of total (gross) indebtedness;
b.    ERRA will not deal with enterprises scheduled for early privatization;
C.    As early as is feasible, ERRA will commission the management of each enterprise, with
the assistance of outside experts, to undertake a viability diagnostic study. Until such
time as the viability diagnostic study for each enterprise has been completed and the
report submitted for review to the Board of ERRA, the agency will act as trustee for each
enterprise (or for its shareholders in the case of a company). Each enterprise will be
under a 'care and maintenance' program by which ERRA will limit further financial
losses as far as possible The costs of the care and maintance program will be financed
through ERRA;



-22 -
d.    Enterprises will be corporatized as joint stock companies and the corporatization process
will -be one of the early actions in ERRA's action program. ERRA will determine
whether an enterprise should be corporatized as one company or whether several
companies should be incorporated (concurrently or later) according to its constituent
operating units;
e.    The working presumption for ERRA will be liquidation, i.e., time-phased closure and
divestiture of assets. The burden of proof would be on each enterprise arguing against
liquidation. Further, all ERRA restructuring programs will be time bound. If, at the
expiry of an agreed limited period of time, an enterprise has not successfully completed
its restructuring program, or a financial turn-round is not evident, the enterprise will be
liquidated according to an orderly and progressive closure program;
f.    Enterprises will not be allowed bank credit. ERRA will arrange for normal banking
services and will oversee the management of enterprises' bank accounts through receipt
of regular cash flow reports from enterprises and copies of bank statements. Financial
assistance during the care and maintenance period of an enterprise and during
implementation of its restructuring plan will be provided by Government, through ERRA,
in a transparent way from the state budget;
g.    Beyond the costs referred to in (c) above, financial assistance will be provided by ERRA
on the basis of the diagnostic study of each enterprise. Funds will be provided either to
support the cost of orderly liquidation or, if the Board of ERRA is satisfied that credible
evidence has been provided to the effect that the enterprise or some of its parts can be
viable, only on the basis of the detailed 'turnaround/restructuring plan" and only for the
purposes identified in this plan. ERRA will approve all financial plans before funds are
committed. It will have the authority to monitor the use of funds by the enterprises, and
to compel changes in expenditure and investment by the enterprise's management to
ensure compliance with the specified restructuring plan;
h.    All ERRA  financially-supported restructuring will be a one and only exercise.
Restructuring will be passive. Restructuring will focus on: (i) business rationalization
and down-sizing; (ii) closure of unviable business units and disposal of excess or
unproductive assets; (iii) separation an disposal of peripheral activities; (iv) elimination
of over-staffing; (v) debt reduction and other forms of financial restructuring; and (vi)
enforcement of hard payment system and collection of existing overdue enterprise debt
owed to the enterprise. A limited amount of working capital, including for the payment
of wages and purchase of supplies that cannot be funded from the enterprise's cash flow
will be remitted. Financing for the maintenance or repair of essential equipment may
also be provided to keep those components of an enterprise with good prospects of
viability operating. As a rule, investments in new plant and equipment will not be
financed. In exceptional cases, limited investment in equipment, such as replacement of
a machine tool, may be considered only if it is essential to maintain in operation a clearly
profitable production line and it guarantees a high and quick financial return;



-23 -
i.    As it deems appropriate, ERRA will have sole discretion to use the powers set out in
Article 27 of the Bankruptcy Law so as to restructure an enterprise through the process
of liquidation. This will involve the separation of viable business operations into one or
more newly formed joint stock companies and leaving unviable operations and any
uncleared debt in the original enterprise which will then be closed and wound up; and
j.    In the event that ERRA concludes that an enterprise should, on commercial and financial
criteria, be closed but that there may be net econoniic benefits from its continued
existence, Government will have to decide whether or not it wishes to provide budget
support. In the absence of actual Government financial support within a timeframe
stipulated by ERRA, the agency will proceed to 'iquidate the enterprise.
"Care and Maintenance Program'
85.          The enterprises that will be put under the "care and maintenance program (CMP)" will
immediately close down their operations to prevent further build-up of inventories and reduce costs to
the minimum possible, pending a detailed assessment of the viability of their product line(s). One of the
first tasks will be to identify the products that (i) have a ready market, (ii) can be manufactred
profitably, and (iii) generate cash revenue. Until this assessment is concluded, no further purchase of
raw materials or capital goods would take place, and energy consumption would be limited to a bare
minimum. The enterprises would keep a core team of personnel and sales staff to endeavor to sell the
existing inventories and raise some revenue. Essential social services, primarily health care and schooling
facilities, would continue to be provided to the employees and their families. All non-essential employees
would be asked not to report to work, and be paid an 'agreed" percentage of their salary, pending the
conclusion of the viability study of the enterprises and a decision regarding their restructuring or closure.
At that time only, would their employment contracts be cancelled, or renegotiated, if needed. Funds
f-rom the state budget would be used to finance the costs of the CMP.
Size and Use of Budget Funds
86.          The Government will cover ERRA's administrative expenses. ERRA will be provided
with technical assistance (TA) funds from external sources, preferably on grant terms, to meet expenses
of long-term advisers and short-term consultants. The latter would assist the sectoral Ministries,
Concerns, and the management teams of the enterprises under the program to undertake the diagnostic
studies, and prepare the liquidation or restructuring plans to be submitted to ERRA's Board for review
and approval.
87.          ERRA would also be provided with a fixed amount of budget funds to be reviewed at
intervals as the program advances. It has been estimated that during the life of the Credit the
Government would need: (i) roughly US$10 million equivalent of domestic currency for the Employment
Fund (which provides unemployment benefits and other programs for the unemployed), as and when
needed; and (ii) US$50 million equivalent of Soms to finance the CMP, to settle net debt owed by
enterrises under ERRA to the Govermuent, to other enterprises, and overdue loans to the banking
system. The final amount to be used for (ii) above, will be decided in consultation between Government,
the IMF, and IDA to ensure consistency with the macroeconomic framework, and would be used for the
following purposes in the given order: (a) providing social services and severance pay; Q,) paying the
salaries of workers of enterprises under the CMP placed on administrative leave during the period of
diagnostic studies, and other ancillary costs of the CMP; (c) financing, until they generate enough cash



-24-
flow, the minimum working capital requirements of those sections of the enterprises which the viability
assessment has found viable or potentially viable; (d) repaying (net) debt to central Government, debt to
suppliers (inter-enterprise arrears); and (e) repaying overdue bank debts. Where feasible inter-enterprise
arrears would be inimediately reconciled, financing for (c), (d), and (e) above would be undertaken on
the basis of the restructuring and/or liquidation plans prepared for each individual enterprise as a result
of their viability assessment.
Debt Cleaee
88.          As a part of the enterprise restructuring program, the issue of debt clearance will be
addressed, as discussed above. The NBK will lead the debt clearance exercise conceptually, on behalf of
the Government.
a.    Net Debt to Government and Debt to Enterprises. ERRA, in close collaboration
with the NBK, will prepare a debt matrix as a priority task, This matrix will determine
the extent of possible debt which can be offset between the enterprises themselves and
between the enterprises and the central Government. ERRA will then issue instructions,
and provide assistance if necessary, to net off these amounts. ERRA will then carry out
a case-by-case review of the remaining creditors of each enterprise so as to determine
how much of the remaining amounts due to other enterprises and net amount due, if any,
to Government should be settled. ERRA will concentrate on overdue debt, defined as
amounts outstanding for over six months.
b.    Non-performing Bank Loans. One of the objectives of the restructuring program is to
remove the non-performing loans of the LLMEs from the loan portfolios of the
commercial banks. The debt clearing process will be implemented through the following
mechanism: ERRA will take over the liabilities of the LLMEs to the banks. At the same
time, the NBK will cancel an equivalent amount of the "liabilities" incurred by the banks
through NBK refinance credit. This would clear up the non-performing assets from the
portfolios of the banks and an equivalent amount of their liabilities to the NBK. ERRA's
payment for the non-performing loans will then be made directly to the NBK, through
a long-term Government bond.
89.          The settlement of overdue debt(s) will be a once and for all exercise and it will be the
responsibility of ERRA and the PESAP Working Group to impose the "hard payment" system to ensure
that a renewed debt build-up does not recur. The settlement of overdue amounts to the enterprises'
creditors and to Government will potentially have a significant impact as cash will be directly available
to them. These cash payments will enable those creditors, in turn, to retire some of their debts to the
bvnks and their own suppliers and, as such, will be considered one of ERRA's highest priorities.
90.          Before the release of the Second Thmche, ERRA wil complete the viabi(ky assessment
of aiteasi 3 large loss-making enterprses under its responsibility, and take a decision on the liquidation
or restmctuing program in respect of these enterprses.
E. Policy And Regulatory Reforns
91.          Under the Reform Progran, considerable progress has been made in removing price
controls, and reducing trade restrictions such as export licenses and export taxes. The aim of further



-25-
reforms in this area is to establish a clear and consistent set of policy commitments that will continue to
produce a liberal and open environment for all enterprises, public and private.
Price Policy Refomu
Removal of Direct Price Controls
92.          Trade Margins. The re-introduction of direct price controls through the imposition of
wide ranging trade margins in June 1993 represented a significant backward step in the liberalization
of the price system. While the motivation for such interventions was t'nderstandable, it was clear that
in an inflationary environment these interventions could simply render trade unprofitable, with damaging
consequences for both producers and consumers. The removal of trade margins on imported goods in
August 1993 was a welcome move on the part of the Government. However their continued application
to domestic goods was imposing unsustainable costs on the trade sector.
93.          Actions Already Taken. The Committee for the Introduction of the National Currency,
was responsible for the imposition of trade margins. The power to impose and modify these margins was
subsequently vested in the Anti-Monopoly Committee, now a Department in the newly established State
Committee for the Economy (SCE). Through a new resolution introduced in November 1993 (resolution
Number I 10 of November 23, 1993) margin controls were reduced to milk and dairy products, meat and
butter, bread, flour, cereals, spaghetti, margarine and eggs. A differential margin was imposed on
supplies to remote rural and mountain areas. Margins ranged from 10 percent to 35 percent.
94.          FuwtherAcdonr Suppoifedby PESAC. As part of the Reform Program, the Government
has abolished all trade margins, except on bread. This decision was put into effect on May 16, 1994
(Resolution 334). Moreover, the Government has re-affirmed its intention not to impose any further price
control measures. The most effective way to drive down trade margins is to promote greater competition.
In recognition of this, the Government has also agreed to accelerate the privatization and de-
monopolization process in the trade and transport sectors (see paras. 114-116).
95.          Anti-Monopoly Regulations. The current practice of applying direct price controls to
companies identified as monopolies, suffers from weaknesses both in terms of the definition of monopoly
power and as a means of limiting the exercise of this power.
96.          Actons Already Taken. Under the Reform Program, the AMC has made important
progress in identifying 'natural' monopolies and reducing the number of companies defined as
monopolies. Furthermore, important progress has been made in preparing legislation that focuses on
interventions based on abuses of power by natural monopolies. The number of companies whose output
prices are controlled by the Anti-Monopoly Department has been reduced from 71 in May 1993 to 15
in March 1994: 6 "natural" monopolies, and 9 "permitted" monopolies. For permitted monopolies the
mandatory response period to requests for the approval of price increases has been reduced from 20 to
3 days.
97.          The list of "permitted" monopolies included a range of goods for which there was
competition from imports - vodka, cognac, champagne, cigarettes, glass jars and bottles, and baking
powder. With the free availability of competing imports, enterprises in the Kyrgyz Republic could not
extract monopoly rents, as consumers would simply switch to cheaper imported products. In these cases,
it was clear that there was little justification for the imposition of price controls. In the case of wool



-26-
washing and flour milling the existence of monopoly suppliers of these services was a consequence of the
industrial structure inherited from the former Soviet Union. As the privatization and industriat
restructuring proceeds it can be expected that these monopolies will be broken, removing any need for
intervention by the Anti-Monopoly Department.
98.          The monopoly power of the bread complex has already been significantly eroded by the
establishment of many small bakeries, undermining the case for including the bread company as a
"permitted" monopoly. Nevertheless it is important to recognize that bread represents an important
element of food security and there is an understandable concern to limit any excessive price rises. The
removal of bread from anti-monopoly regulations would be delayed until the break up and privatization
of the bread complex, which should produce a large number of independent bakeries and flour mills.
There is some justification for the regulation of the prices of coal and fuels procured through domestic
clearing agreements. For coal it is likely that high transportation costs lead to regional monopoly
suppliers. The prices of fuels procured through the clearing agreements is determined in part by inter-
governmental negotiations. To the extent that there is a monopoly distributor of these products, there
is scope to extract monopoly rents.
99.          FurtherAcdons Supported by PESAC. As part of the Reform Program, the Government
has (i) further reduced the number of monopolies that are directly regulated to 9 (mostly natural
monopolies) with the removal of those "permitted" monopolies where competition is available from
imports, and (ii) enacted the Anti-Monopoly legislation. Norms and procedures for the implementation
of this legislation are currently under preparation.
100.         It should be noted however that explicit prices still play only a limited role in the Kyrgyz
economy in determining resource allocation. Systemic arrears, the absence of indexation, and the
dominance of barter trade have rendered explicit pricing irrelevant for a significant proportion of the
economy. For producers who commonly have not been paid for a year for contracts that had a fixed
value denominated in Som, the price is of little relevance, given annual inflation in excess of 1,000
percent. The greatest challenge in the stabilization and reform effort is to produce a broad monetization
of the economy that is based on a stable means of exchange. This requires the stabilization of inflation,
the imposition of financial discipline at the enterprise level and the supply of sufficient credit to permit
the establishment of money-based trade.
Removal of Indirect Price Controls
101.         State Orders and Compulsory Supply Contracts. A wide range of indirect price
controls have been in place until 1992 through the imposition of compulsory state orders and domestic
supply contracts. During 1993, in reaction to shortfalls in Government procurement, state orders were
re-introduced for a limited range of goods. Early in 1994 there were indications that state purchases
would remain compulsory. The Government resolution on 'stimulation of production and sales of
agricultural products in 1994', issued in January 1994, announced "state needs" for 1994. This was an
apparent replacement for state orders. The resolution implied that agricultural producers would only be
free to market their output after state needs had been fulfilled.
102.         Acions Already Taken. In February 1994, the Government passed a decree explicitly
abolishing state orders and establishing that state needs will be executed on a "contractual basis" (Decree
50, Clause 9). State needs consist primarily of agricultural goods deemed crucial for social protection;
direct government procurement, such as food supplies for the army; and goods needed to fulfil?l



-27-
commitments made under bilateral clear;ng agreements. Budgetary constraints, combined with reduced
commitments under the clearing agreements, have substantially reduced the scale of planned state
purchases in 1994 relative to 1993. Eggs, milk, honey, fruits, vegetables, and silk have been removed
from the list. Compared to planned procurement for 1993, planned state needs have fallen by 33 percent
for grain, by 78 percent for meat, by 66 percent for wool, by 66 percent for tobacco and by 9 percent
for cotton.
103.         The significant reduction in the scale of state procurement did imply a reduced role for
the State in output determination. Tle most fundamental constraint in the implementation of 1994 state
needs was the lack of financial resources. Many producers who remained unpaid under year-old contracts
with the Government were unwilling to provide supplies in 1994. The lack of credit and the failure of
enterprises to repay the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Material Resources had effectively frozen the
implementation of the clearing agreements in early 1994.
104.         Futher Actions Supported by PESAC.  Under the Reform Program, the Government
has repealed all existing legislation on state orders and compulsory domestic supply contracts.
105.         For the release of the Second Tranche, the Govenment has agreed (i) to coninue to
implement its policy of not imposing any con pisoiy purchase orders, and (u) to take all necessary
measures on its par to reduce the coverage of bilaeral clearing arrangements with a view to phasing
them out completely.
106.         The need to phase out the bilateral clearing agreements has already been recognized by
the Government (Decree Number 84 of February 24, 1994). Their existence as interim trading
mechanism has been justified in a situation where an effective inter-republic payments system has not yet
been established and where strategic trading partners request such agreements. However, it is critically
important that the domestic implementation of these agreements is placed on a commercial and transparent
basis, to avoid the situation where the agreements are used to provide substantial implicit subsidies to
state enterprises, at the cost of imposing substantial implicit taxes on primary goods producers.
Trade Policy Reforms
107.         Removal of Export Ucensing: The continuation of the export licensing system prevents
the development of effective multi-channel export marketing, and leaves open the possibility of enforcing
large implicit taxes on exporters particularly in the agriculture sector through excessively low
procurement prices. Recent reform efforts have focussed on the reduction in the number of goods
requiring licensing from 50 to 31. However, the list of 31 goods still covered the Kyrgyz Republic's
most important exports.
108.         Actions Already Taken. After a period of considerable uncertainty over the status of
export licensing requirements, a decree issued by the Prime Minister (Number 84 of February 24, 1994)
abolished all export (and import) licensing requirements with the exception of a list of 8 restricted goods
(weapons, explosives, nuclear material, poisons, drugs, works of art and antiques, precious rare earth
metals, and rare animal and vegetable matter used in pharmaceutical production).
109.         Elimination of Export Taxes. Export taxes act as a serious disincentive both to
production for export and to the development of flexible private sector marketing channels.



-28-
110.         Actions Already Taken. Over the second half of 1993 the schedule of export taxes was
revised on four separate occasions. The schedule (Number 613 of December 30, 1993), which remained
in effect until recently, covered a wide range of goods with a considerable dispersion of rates, from 5
percent for livestock and fruit, to 50 percent for sugar and cereals, and 80 percent for wild animals and
plants. The frequent revision of tax rates has been accompanied by a growing number of country specific
exemptions that have been negotiated in the context of bilateral trade agreements with neighboring
countries. Exports to and imports from Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are not subject to tax. Imports from Russia are also not subject to import
duties.
Ill.         There have been four main factors influencing the imposition of export taxes in the recent
past. First, taxes have been used to create incentives for producers to sell goods to the Government, to
meet obligations under the clearing agreements. Second, export taxes have been imposed in retaliation
for the imposition of such taxes by neighboring Republics. Third, they have been used to ensure that
domestic enterprises have access to raw materials. Finally, export taxes have been seen as a useful source
of revenue. The use of export taxes as a retaliatory measure and as a means of protecting the supply of
raw materials is highly inefficient. As trading relations broaden, the imposition of such taxes wiil result
in trading partners securing-alternative and more competitive suppliers. In the domestic economy high
export taxes discourage production and exports.
112.         Frequent changes in trade taxes, in the regulation of export and import trade, and in the
regulation of trade with other Governments, has created great uncertainty. This uncertainty both restricts
trading activity and creates considerable scope for the exercise of discretionary powers by Government
officials. To realize the benefits of a more liberal trading environment the Government has to both
widely advertise the changes in trade regulations and to seek to establish the long-term credibility of a
liberalized trading environment. The credibility of liberalization can easily be undermined by the ad hoc
introduction of new restrictions.
113.         FurtherActions Supported by PESAC. In order to improvethe environment for exports,
the Government has reduced the list of goods subject to export taxes to 9: bread; butter; sugar; vitamins;
live animals; silk worms; raw cotton; scrap metal; and rare and wild animals (Resolution No:335 of May
16, 1994). The rate of export taxes at present does not exceed 30 percent, except on rare animals which
is 80 percent. The Government has also decided to reduce the number of items subject to export taxes
to 3 (hides and skins, live animals, and rare and wild animals) by the end of 1994, and eliminate them
completely by the end of 1995.
114.         Domestic Trade Liberalization. Under the Reform Program, the Government will
accelerate the privatization and de-monopolization of wholesale and retail trade, warehousing and road
transport with a view to ease private sector entry and to enhance competition. Over the past few months,
a significant number of wholesale state monopolies and one retail monopoly have been transferred to
private owners - mostly existing managers and labor collectives - without breaking up these companies
into smaller units. In the transport sector, the pace of privatization has been slow compared to the
distribution sector, and most of the enterprises are still 100 percent, or majority, state-owned. As such,
the creation of a competitive environment in the sector can be achieved by the SPF in the context of
further privatizations. To this effect, Government will instruct the SPF to create the conditions for
greater competition in the road freight transportation at the time of privatization of state-owned
enterprises, including through sale of a significant part of the truck fleets of the existing companies to



-29-
individual private owners, and through reorganization of these companies into smaller economically viable
entities prior to their privatization.
115.         Fulher Acions to be Suppoated by PESAC.  Under the reform program, the
Government has prepared for discussion with IDA, its proposal for the de-monopolization and
privatization of the Bread Complex.
116.          Before the release of the Second Tranche, Govermnent will plement an acdon pan
for de-monopoliadon andprivatizadon of whokesale tA    and ransport enteip*ses IncludIng: (Q dS,-
monopolization andpnVatlzation of4 stae-owned enterprises In the wholesae trade area (Kyrgyzaltorg,
Kyrwiasheledrotorg, Kyrgozr sbyt, and MetaUtorg), (ii) de-monopolization of 3 holdin
compaies, anii) prtizaion of 10 large tmcking enteipdses In the transport sector.
117.         The dismantling of the state order and procurement system and the privatization of the
state-owned wholesale and retail trade sector will have major implications for the structure and funcions
of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Material Resources. The future role of the Ministry will be
focussed on the negotiation of interstate trading agreements, the implementation of regulatory functions
and, possibly, the provision of market information. It can be expected that there will be a rapid rise in
the demand for marketing and trade support services from the emerging private sector, as such skills were
almost completely absent at the enterprise level under central planning. These fundamental changes and
the skill gaps that they imply, highlight the need for a review of the functions and organizational structure
of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Material Resources, to identify suitable institutional reforms and
a program of assistance t implement these reforms. At the same time there is a need to assess which
functions of the Ministry could be effectively spun off into separate commercialized entities to provide
support to the private sector. This assessment will be conducted and its results be put into effect, under
the Reform Program.
Legal And Regulatry Reforms
118.         The Goverment recognizes that the transition from a command to a market economy will
require substantial changes in the legal and regulatory framework governing the economic activities of
the Kyrgyz Republic. Already a large number of new laws have been enacted. Still others, such as a
new Company Law are needed to create the proper environment for enterprise reform and efficiency.
The challenge for the authorities is to review and analyze the existing legal and institutional framework
and to reform and adjust it in parallel with the political and economic reform measures already
implemented or planned by the Government.
119.         There is also a need to accelerate regulatory reforms to promote greater freedoms to
private enterprises. The absence of effective registration of rights in respect of real property and security
rights, constrain the development of commercial lending practices and create considerable scope for fraud.
120.         Legilte Aton Plan Supported by PESAC.  Under the Reform Program the
Government has, by an order of the President, established the central Legal Reform Unit in the Office
of the President to strengthen the Government's capacity to carry out a comprehensive legal reform
program. It has enacted three key pieces of legislation: The Privatization Law ('93), the Insolvency
Legislation and the Anti-Monopoly Legislation.



-30-
121.         By Decree of the President (Number 34 of March 25, 1994), the Kyrgyz Republic has
also defined the institutional responsibility regarding the registration of companies in the district,
provincial and central office of the State Committee for Statistics. In May 1994, the Government
approved a regulation on the rules for the registration of companies pursuant to the above mentioned
Decree.
122.         Before the end of 1994, the Government will: (i) prepare and submit to Parliament a
draft law clarifying the rights to lease land and simplifying the land lease rules; (ii) make amendments
of the joint stock company law providing for strict duties on companies in the registration of shares and
clarifying the concept of legal personality and the difference between limited and unlimited liability; (iii)
prepare legislation/decree allowing for the registration of security rights by collateral or pledge; (iv)
prepare legislation/decree on competitive state procurement procedures for publicly financed purchases
and contracts; and (v) issue two sets of instructions containing detailed implementing rules for the
insolvency of banks (to be issued by the National Bank) and for enterprises (to be issued by the Prime
Minister) no later than September 30, 1994. Furthermore, a new comprehensive Company Law will be
drafted and sent to the Association for review and comments. Subsequently, the new Company Law will
be submitted to Legislature.
F. Social Protection
123.         Given the severe fall in output and incomes in the Kyrgyz Republic and the hardship now
being felt, development and implementation of an effective social safety net program is one of the highest
priorities for Government. In designing this program, however, the Government faces a difficult problem
in deciding how to adequately meet the social protection needs during the adjustment/transformation
process, while at the same time restricting social expenditures to levels consistent with the economic
stabilization program. The proportion of the Government budget allocated to social spending has already
dropped very considerably since the start of the economic reform program (from about 27 percent GDP
in 1991 to about 10 percent in 1993). In light of this situation, the Government's main concem is (i) how
to prepare for the anticipated rise in unemployment, and (ii) how best to provide targeted social protection
to the most needy groups of the population. These two key objectives will be supported by the proposed
PESAC, and a separate Social Safety Net (SSN) credit scheduled for Board consideration in early July,
1994.
124.         The proposed PESAC supports (i) key policy actions related to unemployment
compensation and (ii) financing of this compensation. The Government intends to eliminate incentives
for overstaffing by enterprises, but it also wants to provide adequate compensation for the unemployed.
In 1994, it has reduced the liability of employers for funding severance pay, under the Employment Law,
for laid-off workers. The responsibility for providing immediate cash support in the form of
unemployment benefits to dismissed employees will be provided through the Employment Fund,
administered by the Employment Service. While the Employment Fund is presently in surplus, the
Government recognizes that this situation will change rapidly when unemployment increases significantly.
The Government has raised the employer contribution to the Employment Fund to 1.5 percent of the
payroll cost. It plans to introduce a 0.5 percent contribution from employees. In addition, supported by
the PESAC resources, starting in the 1994 budget, the Government will include a financial provision to
augment the Employment Fund to cover unemployment benefit payments.
125.         Under the Soviet system, many enterprises were responsible for the operation of social
services and amenities for their workers and their families. These services include kindergartens, schools,



-31-
polyclinics and especially housing. The Government believes that this armgement is incompatible with
a market-based economic system. However, a strategy for the divestiture of social assets from entewprises
and for the associated rationalization and restructuring of essential social services operated by the
municipalities needs to be developed. This will be done under the PESAC, and it will provide a basis
for developing programs and options to minimize this aspect of social costs of enterprise restructuring.
Support for some follow-up activities is included in the SSN project.
126.         The SSN project, will build up the institutional capacity of relevant government ministries
and agencies to formulate and implement social policy. It will strengthen the Employment Service to
enable it to (i) process and pay unemployment benefits to laid-off workers, and (ii) accelerate the
re-deployment of unemployed workers. In addition, a training program will assist the unemployed
through a reorientation of the existing technical and vocational training system towards commercial and
services sectors. The objectives and content of the training will be made more relevant to the needs of
a market economy.
127.         The SSN project would also improve the efficiency and effectiveness of social assistance
delivery through targeting. Although some targeting of social protection has already started, firther work
will be done to provide better targeted cash and in-kind support to those in need. This will involve the
separation of social assistance and social insurance elements, and the restructuring of the complex
administration of cash benefits and income support into a streamlined social assistance system. The SSN
project will also address the need to monitor poverty and unemployment through strengthening the
capacity of the State Statistical Agency.
PART IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDfT
Borrower and Credit Amount
128.         The borrower is the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.  The credit amount is
US$60 million. This amount, which is equal to about 11 percent of total imports of goods, is necessary
to maintain the momentum of the stabilization and adjustment programs and, along with other donor
assistance, to help close the financing gap of the balance of payments. The credit would be on standard
IDA terms, with a 35-year maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Techimcal Assistance Requirements
129.         The Government's capacity to implement the proposed reform program is extremely
limited because of a lack of knowledge of market mechanisms and of experienced personnel. The success
of the reform program would depend on providing the Government with a team of resident advisers and
short-term consultants possessing the required expertise, to develop strategies, execute studies, devise
legislation, strengthen local institutions and skills, and implement programs in the areas of privatization,
trade policy, SE liquidation, and restructuring. The overall technical assistance requirements are quite
substantial. Technical assistance would include long-term advisers in: (i) the PESAC Management Unit
(PMU); (ii) the SPF; (iii) the proposed ERRA; (iv) Ministry of Trade; and (v) the Central Legal Reforms
Unit. Short-term consultants would be needed to assist with: (i) restructuring/liquidation of LLMEs; and
(ii) specific legal tasks required by the Central Legal Reforms Unit. Some funding would also be needed
for training of local staff outside the Republic through guided study tours and for providing essena
office equipment. The TA requirements will be financed from existing and future IDA credits, or from



-32-
other bilateral and multilateral sources, preferably on grantterms. USAID has already provided financing
for a number of technical assistance positions in support of the reform program and proposes to continue
such assistance in the future. A number of other donors -Japan, Switzerland, Asian Development Bank,
and the European Union - have expressed interest in the program.
Procurenent
130.        The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of delivered costs of general imports,
_except the items contained in the negative list. IDA shall be providing TA to the Government in the
preparation of the Public Procurement Law, following which the preparation of Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) will be initiated, with assistance from IDA, and is expected to be completed
before the end of FY95. The Appraisal mission has determined that both public and private enterprises
typically procure imports through competitive quotations from different countries and these practices are
acceptable for the said operation. In the context of the preparation of the Public Procurement Law and
CPAR, discussions will be held on the need for pre-shipment inspection to ensure quality and quantity
of imports. The procurement of goods, equipment and related services will be managed by PMU. The
Project Inmplementation Unit (PIU) of the State Commission for Foreign Investment and Economic
Assistance (GOSKOMINVEST), will provide advice and assistance if and when needed, particularly on
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement.
131.        The imports by the ministries, public enterprises and private importers above
US$1.0 million per contract would be procured through simplified ICB, except for the commonly traded
commodities, which will be procured through organized International Commodity Markets or through
other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to IDA. IDA's standard bidding documents will
be used l-or simplified ICB. The imports below the contract threshold of US$1.0 million will beprocured
in accordance with standard commercial practices being followed by the public sector and private
enterprises.
132.        Payments made for imports prior to the signing of the Development Credit Agreement
will be eligible for retroactive financing. These payments, made after April 1, 1994, will be reimbursable
from the proceeds of the Credit, subject to a cumulative maximum of US$8.5 million.
Disbursement
133.        The proposed credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The first tranche
(JS$30 million) would become available to the Government upon credit effectiveness, expected in July
1994, and the second tranche six to eight months later. Disbursement of the second tranche will depend
on satisfactery review by IDA of the implementation of the adjustment program as a whole; and the
fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions. The credit would reimburse 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs of eligible imports, with eligibility determined by a small negative list, agreed
between the Government and IDA. Payments for contracts under US$1.0 million would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures. The Statements of Expenditures supportive documents such as
invoices, evidence of shipment and payment will be retained by PMU for random review by Bank staff
and by the auditors. PMU would be responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documents
from the commercial banks and the foreign exchange bureaus, as well as the preparation and submission
of withdrawal applications and supportive documents to IDA. Disbursement for contracts above US$1.0
million, procured in accordance with the agreed IDA/Bank procurement guidelines, will be fully
documented. Members of the PMU would be trained in Disbursement Workshops organized by IDA.



-33-
Management,, Reporting, and Auditing
134.         The State Committee for the Economy (Goskomekonomyky), through the PESAC
Working Group led by the first Deputy Minister of Economy, will have responsibility for the overall
management of the program although the implementation of individual program components will be
carried out by relevant ministries or agencies (i.e., NBK, SPF, ERRA and Ministry of Trade).
Goskoneuo mylky  will report periodically to the high level POLICY  COORDINATION
COMMITTEE, recently established by the Government and chaired by the First Deputy Prime Minister.
Given the complexity of the reform program, the PESAC Management Unit will be established in the
State Committee for the Economy to facilitate and coordinate implementation of the various actions
required. A Senior Project Advisor, to be funded by the Technical Assistance Component of the
Rehabilitation Credit (TACRC), and his Kyrgyz counterpart would provide leadership and training to the
other counterparts to be provided by the Government. TACRC would also provide the needed equipment
to the PMU. PMU will establish and maintain a Management Information System covering all aspects
of project implementation. It will submit reports to IDA one month after the end of each quarter,
reporting progress of implementation and identifying bottlenecks. PMU will maintain records of all
transactions under the Credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Project accounts will be
audited, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, by auditors acceptable to IDA, in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines, and submitted to the Association,
Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions
135.         Conditions of Board Presentation.  Satisfactory performance in macroeconomic
stabilization will be a precondition for going ahead with the proposed PESAC. The reform program is
front loaded in the sense that a sizeable number of actions will have been completed prior to Board
presentation. The conditions for Board presentation, which have been fully met, are listed below.
P rivatization
i.     Government to amend legislation/regulatory provisions to allow free exercise of
individual shareholding property rights by members of labor collectives. Such new laws
to be applied retroactively to already privatized enterprises where the SPF holds the two-
third majority of the shares enabling it to modify the company charter.
Hi.     SPF to eliminate from existing and future privatization contracts restrictions on range of
business activities to be undertaken by privatized enterprises, and Government to revise
the new Privatization Law to the effect that no such restrictions can be placed in any
future privatization contracts.
iii.     The new Concept Note and the Privatization Law will contain provisions to the effect that
any interested party will be able to submit privatization proposals without any prior
restriction on the acceptable form of distribution of shares, beyond those agreed for free
distribution to managers and workers (5 percent) and for SMP (voucher) sales (25
percent).



-34-
Sbta  Esepr6e Reform
iv.      a' Government to establish institutional arrangements (i.e., an Enterprise Reform and
Resolution Agency), and provide adequate human and fmancial resources, for exercising
sole authority over the management of the liquidation/restructuring progran of these
enterprises, including the provision of all technical assistance and financial resources.
b) Government to issue a decree (i) transferring an .greed number of large loss-making
SOEs (LLMEs) under the authority of ERRA, and (ii) announcing that these SOEs should
be put under the Care and Maintenance Program no later than September 1, 1994 or at
Credit effectiveness, whichever date is the earlier.
z) Government to agree to exclusively channel all subsidies and financial support to an
agreed list of large loss-making enterprises in a transparent way through the state budget.
The size of these funds will be limited and fixed, consistent with the macroeconomic
program.
Private Sector Development
a. Pric an Trade Policy Reforms
v.      Eliminate all restrictions on trade margins, except on bread.
vi.      Remove direct price controls on all enterprises other than an agreed list of 9 natural
monopolies.
viz.     Government to submit to Parliament Anti-monopoly Legislation, satisfactory to IDA,
including procedures for the identification of abuses of monopoly power.
viii.     Govermment to remove all export licensing, except on an agreed limited number of
goods.
ix.      Government to repeal existing legislation on state orders and compulsory domestic supply
contracts.
b. Leal and Regulatory Reforms
x.      Government to submit to legislature the draft Insolvency Legislation.
xi.      Government to prepare an ACTION PLAN, which will set out the steps to be taken,
including timetable, to amnend/enact the required legislation and regulatory measures to
liberalize private sector activities, and foster its development, with priority given to laws
on Lease, ISCs, laws on registration of property rights and registration of companies, and
competitive state procurement.



-35 -
c. Insitutiona Reforms
xii.     Government to prepare and submit to IDA a proposal for the de-monopolization and
privatization of the Bread Complex.
Social Safety Net
xiii.     Government to reduce liability of employers for funding severar  pay for laid-off
workers.
xiv.      Government to introduce (a) compressed range of unemployment benefits, and (b)
legislation whichi provides for a 0.5 percent employee contribution to the EWloyment
Fund.
136.         Conditions for Second Tranche Release.  Disbursement of the second tranche
(US$30 million), anticipated in six to eight months after the disbursement of the first tranche, would be
contingent on (i) a review, satisfactory to IDA, of successful implementation of the reform program as
a whole, and (ii) fulfillment of the specific second tranche conditions listed below:
Yrivatization
i.      Government to conduct a rminimum of 4 voucher auctions in at least 2 different oblasts
for the shares still held by the State Property Fund in privatized joint stock companies,
covering a minimum of 10 such enterprises at each auction;
Hi.     (a) For enterprises still fully Government owned, SPF to implement three sets of
privatization auctions, at least in two oblasts, and to invite privatization proposals for a
minimum of 70 enterprises included in the 1994-95 Program.
(b) SPF to submit a report to IDA indicating (i) the proportion of enterprises privatized
through auctions, bidding and competitive privatization proposals, and (ii) a plan and
timetable for future privatization of enterprises, satisfactory to IDA.
State Enteprise Reforms
iii.     Government to implement the 'hard payment" system for all state-owned enterprises
under the responsibility of ERRA, which should be reflected in no further accumulation
of inter-enterprise arrears, debt to the banking system and/or the Government;
iv.      ERRA to complete the viability assessment of at least three large loss-making enterprises
under its responsibility, and take a decision on the liquidation or restructuring program
in respect of these enterprises;
Privae Sector Development
v.      Government to continue to implement its policy of not imposing any compulsory
purchase orders;



-36-
vi.      Government to take all necessary measures on its part to reduce the coverage of its
bilateral clearing arrangements with a view of phasing them out completely;
vii.     Government to prepare a comprehensive draft Company Law for review with IDA;
viii.     Government to prepare a report on progress made on the implementation of the
legislative action plan and a timetable for further legal reform actions, satisfactory to
IDA;
ix.      Government to implement an action plan for de-monopolization and privatization of
wholesale trade and transport enterprises including: (a) de-monopolizing and privatizing
4  state-owned  enterprises  in  the  wholesale  trade  area  (Kyrgyzailtorg,
Kyrgyzmashelectrotorg, Kyrgyzrasnosbyt, and Metalloptorg), (b) de-monopolizing 3
holding companies, and (c) privatizing 10 large trucking enterprises in the transport
sector.
Environ menbtl Assessment
137.         The project would be consistent with IDA policy and procedures. Under IDA policies
for adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been assigned. Nevertheless, in the privatization
program, the Government will be required to introduce environmental audits, and begin to develop a legal
framework necessary for environmental protection and enhancement through privatized and state
enterprise operations.
PART V. BENEFfIS AND RISKS
138.         Benfits. The proposed Credit would allow increased production and capacity utflization
through the provision of foreign exchange resources to finance imports of inputs, raw materials, spare
parts and services. The credit would also help accelerate the implementation of enterprise privatization
and restrucuring which are the key objectives of the Govemment's Reform Program to tansfr  the
economy; and it would support efforts to stimulate private sector development, improved enterprise
governance and efficiency, and banking sector reforms in the ongoing movement towards a market
economy. Technical assistance under the Credit, financed from other financial sources, would contribute
to the development of technical capacity in economic and financial management and would reinforce the
implementation of the Government's Reform Program.
139.         Risks. Four main risks are associated with the program. Cl) The first relates to the
country's ability to stabilize the economy. The persistence of high levels of inflation would continue to
undermine the financial health of enterprises in transition, create a major obstacle to the reduction of
interest rates, discourage investments and new entrants to the market and delay the recovery and
transformation of the banks. (ii) The second risk stems from the sheer magnitude of privatization and
SE restructuring effort and the complexity of its implementation. The major systemic and institutional
reforms envisaged under the credit are unprecedented in the Kyrgyz Republic and may take substantially
longer time than anticipated. (iii) The country's limited administrative capacity and unfamiliarity with
IDA procurement and disbursement procedures could result in significant implementation delays. Finally,
(iv) the social impact of mass privatization and enterprise restructuring may lead to strong political
resistance. The first risk would be mitigated by the Government's strong commitment to the BOFMIDA



-37-
supported stabilization programs. The Technical Assistance provided under the proposed Credit -
although financed from other sources - would help to reduce the risks under (ii) and (iii). The Credit,
while not fully addressing the social costs of adjustment, would help in maintaining jobs in efficient
enterprises and in reducing the overall loss of jobs in enterptises facing difficulties. In addition, the
Government would provide social safety net directly under the Credit through improved unemployment
compensation and proactive assistance for those effected h'y enterprise restructuring and liquidation.
PART VI. RECOPMNDATION
140.         1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the International Development Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 9, 1994



- 38 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - PRIVATIZATION IUID ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PESAC)
SIM(ARY OF GONERNElT REFOWi PROGRAi
OBJECTIVES         ACTIONS INTRODUCED                         PESAC                     TIMildG         CDIITICI
BEFORE APPRAISAL                   ACTICrJ PRiOGRI                                   FOR
A. P, iVATIZATI,
1. Redee the Role of    - As of  February 94,    1. Government to issue a Decree (a)   4/94            Dome
the State in Econmic    33.2 percent of the    ensuring   that SPF retains ownership
Activity. Enabte the    total    fixed  state    and management control over all shares
creation    of    a    assets    of    the    owned by the Government in privatized
significant nuate  of   Republic  have  been    enterprises, and (b) instructing SPF to
private   nterprises    totally or partially    sell these shares through competitive
for the introdLiction    privatized..             methods, no later than end-1995, in
of a irket economy.                               accordance with a schedule satisfactory
- Until   recently,    to IDA.
corporatization- cum-
privatization, mainly    2. Government to conduct a minimun of 4   12/94     Second
transfer of shares to    voucher  auctions  in  at  Least  2                 Tranche Release
labor   cotlectives,    different oblasts for the shares still
has been the dominant    hetd  by  SPF  in  privatized  JSCs,
method.                  covering   a  minimum  of  10  such
enterprises at each auction.
-The new Concept
Note has established    3. Government  to  amend  legislative   6194         Doe
competitive  methods    provisions to atlow free exercise of
such as auctions and    individual   share-holding   property
bidding,    incluiding    rights by mentbers of labor collectives.
u s e    o f   S M P s    Such   new   law   to   be   applied
(vouchers)    and    retroactively  to  already  privatized
Investment  Funds as    enterprises where SPF holds the two-
main                     third majority of the shares enabling
methods   of   future    it to modify the company charter.
privatization.
4.  Government  to  instruct  SPF  to   6/94        Done
Government   has    eliminate from privatization contracts
introduced necessary    already conctuded, any restrictions on
legislative  changes    the range of business activities that
in  the  new  draft    can  be  undertaken  by  privatized
Privatization Law to    enterprises,  and to  revise the new
allow   Investment    Privatization Law to the effect that no
Funds to be owned by    such restrictions can be placed in any
private    investors,    future privatization contracts.
and  to  aLlow  such
private   Investment    5.  The  new  Concept  Note  and  the   12193        Done
Funds   to   operate    Privatization   Law   witl   contain
without sectoral  or    provisions  to the. effect  that  any
g e o g r a p h i c a l    interested party will be able to submit
restrictions.            privatization  proposals  without  any
prior restriction on the acceptable
form of distribution of shares, beyond
those agreed for free distribution to
managers and workers (5 percent) and
for SlP (voucher) sales (25 percent).
6. Government to issue a Decree or a   4194         Done
Resotution to ensure that price will be
the most important selection criteria
considered to evaluate competitive
privatization  proposals,   with  the



- 39  -
aJECTI YES           ACTIOUS INTRWOUED                        PESAC                     TIING               m
SEFOSE APPRAISAL                  ACTlI! PROGRAM                                        FM
quality of the proposed business plan
submitted by the two or three highest
bidders considered, in accordance with
the weights agreed with IDA, should
their prkce offers be quite close.
7.  a)  For  enterprises  stilt  fully   12/94       Second
Govermuent  owned,  SPF  to  implement               Tranche Release
three sets of privatization suctions,
at Least in two obtasts, and to invite
privatization proposals for a minimum
of 70 enterprises included in the 1994-
1995 Program.
b) SPF to submit a report to IDA
indicating  (i)  the  proportion  of
enterprises    privatized    through
auctions,   bidding  and  competitive
privatization proposals, and (ii) a
plan   and   timetable   for   future
privatization   of   enterprises,
satisfactory to IDA.
8.  Goverrment  to  keep  the  public
regularly informed of the progress of
the privatization program and forms of
privatization used by SPF including
auction announcements and results in
leading newspapers.
S. STATE ENTERPRISE REFORFIS
1.    improve    the                               1.    Government    to    issue    an   12/93        DOnW
governance    and                                  administrative order to the effect that
efficiency  of state                               the  legal status of aLl mediun and
omud    enterprises                                targe scale state owned enterprises
(IIES).                                            -(SOEs),   not    included   in   the
Privatization Program, must be changed
into a legal status of Joint Stock
Company, with the State holding 00
percent of the shares.
2.    Rationatize                                  2.      a)  Goverrnment  to  establish   6/94        Donw
finonciat  transfers                               institutionat arrangements C i.e., an
to    enterprises                                  Enterprise   Reform   and   Resolution
throug  the Budgt.                                 Agency), and provide adequate human and
financial resources, for exercising
sole authority over the management of
the liquidatfonlrestructuring program
of these enterprises, including the
provision of all technical assistance
and financial resources.
b) Government to issue a decree (i)
transferring an agreed number of large
loss-making SOEs CLLNEs) under the



- 40-
OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS INTRODUCED                       PESAC                     TIMING              C WDITIOS
BEFORE APPRAISAL                  ACTIOU PROGUAU                                        FOR
authority of ERRA, and (ii) announcing
that these SOEs should be put under
Care and Maintenance Program (CMP) no
later than September 1,  1994 or at
Credit effectiveness, whichever date is
the eartier.
c)   Government   to   agree   to
exclusively channel all subsidies and
fin3nciaL support to an agreed list of
Large Loss-making enterprises in a
transparent  way  through  the  state
budget. The size of these funds wi(L be
limited and fixed, consistent with the
macroeconomic program.
3. Government to implement the "hard   12/94         Second
payment" system for atl SOEs under the               Tranche Release
responsibiLity of ERRA, which should be
reflected in no further accumulation of
inter-enterprise arrears, debt to the
banking system and/or the Government.
4.  ERRA  to  complete  the  viability   12/94       Second
assessment of at teast 3 large loss-                 Trenche Release
making    enterprises    under    its
responsibility, and take a decision on
the   liquidation   or   restructuring
program    in   respect   of   these
enterprises.
C. PRIVATE SECTOR OEVELOPFENT
(1) PRICE AND TRADE POLICY REFORMS.
1. Government to:
a) Eliminate all restrictions on trade   4/94        Dne        -
1. Liberalize the        - Trade margins were    margins, except on bread.
price system. lprwoe    imposed in June 1993.
competition    and    These  margins  were    b) Remove direct price controts on all   4/94             Done
efficiency.              applied to all traded    enterprises other than an agreed list
go^ds.                   of 9 naturat monopolies.
- Trade margins were
lifted for imported
goods in August, 93.
They   remained   in    c)   Submit    to   Partiament    the   6/94          Done
place    for   goods    Anti-monopoly legistation,
produced locally.        satisfactory   to   IDA,    including
procedures for the identification of
- In November 1993,    abuses of monopoly power.
items   subJect   to
trade margins were
reduced to 10.
-  In  mid-1993,  71
companies identified



OBJECTIVES           ACTIWiS INTRIDUCED                      PESAC                     TINI4G             CCDITION
CEFORE APPRAISAL                  ACTIOU PROGW                                         FOR
as monopolies, were
subject   to   price-
controls. At present,
t 5    companies,
including 9 natural
monopoties,    are
subject  to   di rect
price controls by the
AMC.
1. Government to  remove at t export   6/94         Done
2.  Hove  toaards  a                               licensing   requirements   with   the
mre open and liberal                               exception of an agreed limited nurber
trade    pot icy.                                 of goods.
reprave competition
and efficiency.                                   2. Government to  remove alt export   4/94           Done
taxes except on (9) items.
3.  Govermnent  to  repeat  existing   6/94         Done
Legislation   on   state-orders   and
domestic supply contracts.
4. Government to continue to implement   12/94      Second
its  policy  of  not  imposing  any                 Tranche Release
conputsory purchase orders.
5. Government to take all necessary   12/94         Second
measures on its part to reduce the                  Tranche Retease
coverage of its bilateral clearing
arrangements with the view of phasing
them out completely.
C2) LEGAL AND REGULATORY REFRM
1. Government to submit to legislature   12/93      Dane
1. Estabtish a legal                              the draft Insolvercy Legislation.
and    regutatory
franeork   to   (i)
secure    individualt
property rights; (ii)                             2. Government to establish, by a decree   4/94       Done
reve  entry and exit                              of the President or the Prime Minister,
barriers  and enabte                              a  central  Legal  Reform  Unit  to
registration and free                             coordinate,    inter    alia,    legal
business aperations.                              activities required under PESAC Reform
Program.
3. Government to prepare  an ACTION   6/94          Done
PLAN, which will set out the steps to
be taken, incLuding timetabte, to
amend/enact the required legislation
and regulatory measures to liberalize
private sector activities, and foster
its development, with priority given to
following actions:



- 42 -
(ISJECIIVES           ACTIONS ItTRUO                            PESAC                      TINWtiG             CMMITION
BEFORE APPtASAL.                   ACT IO  PROGR4N                                        FOR
a) to clarify the rights of lease   12/94
holders; to siunlify tand-tease rutes;
and to facilitate transfer of lease and
similar user rights.
b)  to  inpose  stricter  duties  on   12/94
companies in the registration of
shares; to clarify the concept of legal
personatity and the difference between
Limited and unlimited liability.
c) to allow for the registration in a   12/94
Central Registrar with district offices
of security rights by tease or pledge.
d) to prepare legislation/decree on   12/94
Competitive State Procurement
Procedures   for   publicLy   financed
purchases and contracts.
4.    Goverrment    to    prepare    a   12/94        Secord
comprehensive Company Law for review                  Tranche Release
with IDA.
S. Government to prepare a report on   12/94          Second
progress made on the inplementation of                Tranche Release
the Legislative action plan and a
timetable for further legal reform
activities, satisfactory to IDA.
(3) ITITliIGAL REFORM
1. Government to prepare and subnit to   6/94         Done
IDA for discussion its proposal for the
de-monopolization and privatization of
the Bread CompLex.
2. Government to (a) de-monopotize and   12/94        Second
privatize 4 state owned enterprises in                Tranche ReLease
the    wholesale    trade    area
(Kyrgyzatl torg, Kyrgyzmashelectrotorg,
Kyrgyzrasnosbyt, and Metal loptorg), and
(b) de-monopolize 3 hotding companies,
and   privatize   10   large   trucking
enterprises in the transport sector.
3. Govermnent to conduct organizational
assessment of the Ministry of IrKlustry
and Trade consistent with its changing
role and responsibilities.



-43 
OBJECTIVES            ACTIOUS INTRODUCED                       PESAC                     TINIUG              CONDITION
BEFORE APPRAISAL                   ACTION PROGRAS                                        FOR
0. SOCIAL SAFETY NET
1.   Government   to   plan   orderly
1. Minimize negative                                divestiture  of  housing  and  social
sociat   effects   of                               services from enterprises:
e n t e r p r is e
restructuring    and                                 a)  Develoo  a  strategy   for  the
unWployVment.  .                                    dive-titure  of  sociat  assets  from
enterprises.
b) Design a demonstration program,
including    costs    and    financing
arrangements, in two oblasts in support
of divestiture of the housing and other
social   services   provided   by   the
enterprises   which   are   under   the
responsibility of ERRA.
2. Government to reduce liability of   6/94           Done
employers for funding severance pay,
under the Employment Law, for laid-off
workers.
3. Governr .t to introduce:
a)         compressed    range    of   6/94       Done
unemployment benefits;
b) legislation which provides for a   12/94
0.5% employee contribution to the
Empt oynent Fund.
Nay a   1994
FAS



- 44 -
Annex I
Page I of 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Table 1. Selected Nlacroeconomic Indicators, 194-96
1994         1995         1996
A. National Income Accounts
GDP, % real change             -5.0         0.0          2.5
GDP Deflator,- % change      290.0         50.0         15.0
Total Expenditure, % of GDP?    110.0      109.0       108.0
Consumption                   99.0         96.0         92.0
Investment                    11.0          13.0        16.0
B. Fiscal Accounts, % of GDP
Budget Balance                -7.2          -6.3        -6.0
Revenue and Grants            13.0         14.4         15.7
Expenditure                   20.2         20.7         21.7
C. External Account, % of GDP
Trade Balance                 -8.9          -8.4        -7.8
Exports                       14.5          14.9        15.1
imports                       23.4         23.3         22.9
Current Account Balance       -8.2          -8.0        -7.1
Terms of Trade Index (1993=100) 93.4       92.5         92.5
Externa Debt, million US$    495.0        700.4        891.6
External Debt1GDP             19.5         26.8         32.4
External Debt Service/GDP      1.0          3.8          3.3
Exenal Debt Service/Exports    6.8         25.8         21.8
I/    Prelimiay stff prqjecdion.
2!    Sum of GDP and Xt balanco of goods and service te (sign reverd.



- 45 -
Annex HI
Page I of I
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Table 2. Balance of Payments Projections, 1994-96
US$ million                      1993            1994        1995      1996
(Estimated)    (Projected)  (Projected) (Projected)
A. Trade balance                  -166           -225        -220       -215
Exports                     335            367         389       417
FSU                        223             244         257       274
Energy                   31              47          52        55
Other                   191             197         205       218
Other countries             112            124         131        143
Imports                        501            593          609       631
FSU                         317            376         384        393
Energy                  171             207         210       213
Other                   146             169         173       180
Other countries            I15             217         225        238
B. Non-interest services            1I            -25         -15        -18
C. Interest payments                -1            -24         -26        -27
FSU                           0            -14          -10        -8
Other countries                 -2             -10         -15       -19
D. Transfers                       26              68          53        63
Official                       116             96           67        70
Private                         -9             -28         -14        -7
E. Current account balance        -132           -207        -208       -197
(before official transfers)   -248            -303        -275      -267
F. Capital Account                222             225         236       218
Foreign Direct Investment       10              15          25        25
Medium and Long-term Capital   212            210          211       193
Disbursement                   212            211          286       257
Amortization                     0              -1         -75       -64
G. Errors and Omissions            -63             --           -         -
H. Overall Balance                 27              19          28        21
I. Change in Official Reserves    -27             -19         -28        -21
Memo Items
Debt Service2 (US$ m.)           1              24         100        91
Debt Service Ratio (%)                           6.8        25.8      21.8
1/ PreUminay IMF and Bank staff projedos.
2  Ins And Principal



-46 
Annex II
Page I of I
KYRGYZ PJPVLIC
Table 3. Exteral Capital Requ _ement, 1994-96
US$ million                        1994         1995         1996       1994-96
A. External Financing Requirements   -323        378          352         l
Current Account Deficite     303          275          267          845
Debt Amortization              1           75           64           140
Change in gross reserves      19           28           21           68
B. Total Financinge                 323          378          352         1
Foreign direct investment     15           25           25           65
Grants                        96           67           70          233
Medium and Long-Term Debt    211          286          257          754
Multilateral             79          171          168          418
oiw IDA/IBRD           59           91           86          236
Bilateral               132          115           89          336
11    Exluding offici grants.
2/    on a disbumsemont W96s.



- 47 -
Annex lV
Page I of 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATTZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Proposed Selection Method for the Privatization of
Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises
1.           The controlling block of shares of medium- and large-scale state-owned enterprises, those
with 10 or more employees, will not be auctioned off, but will sold on the basis of competitive
privatization proposals developed by interested investors. The objective of the Government is to attract
strategic investors by offering them the opportunity to buy up to 70 percent of the shares, with (at least)
25 percent reserved for voucher auctions, and 5 percent given for free to the managers and workers.
2.           While the principle is to be commended, questions arise as to the method which the
Government plans to use to select the winning privatization proposals. First, the Government intends to
base the selection process on the book, rather than on the market value of the enterprises. Second, the
proposed process relies on a system of "points", where the price offered by the potential investors would
rank very low (20 points out of a total of 200), compared to a large number of qualitative criteria. On
both counts, the proposed system would fail to promote the Government's objectives.
3.           The reliance on the book value may be politically expedient to deflect the possible
criticism from a public largely unaware of business economics of "giving away" the State's assets.
However, in no way does it reflect the real value of the enterprises offered for sale, which is directly
related to their estimated potential for profitability. It is likely that a significant number of the enterprises
offered for sale have accumulated debts to the banks, their suppliers, and possibly the State which are
larger than the depreciated value of their assets. This means that their "net worth" would, in fact, be
negative. The use of coefficients to re-value the assets could result in an estimation of a positive book
value, but it would be misleading. If, in addition, this book value is considered as the minimum
acceptable selling price, it is highly unlikely that the Government will be able to attract the interest of
serious investors in these companies because investors would be interested in the business potential rather
than in the speculative value of the land and buildings of the enterprises.
4.            Further, the overwhelming importance given to the qualitative criteria is not conducive
to the promotion of transparency of the selection process, as their evaluation is inevitably fraught with
subjectivity. "Quality-based" (i.e., non-price) criteria should only be used to further differentiate between
two or more competing investors, when the purchase price they offer for the company is both highest,
and fairly close. If an offer is clearly above all others in terms of price or, conversely, much lower than
the others, "quality-based" criteria are irrelevant. In fact, they can be misleading, as they represent
promises on the part of the investor, which might prove difficult to enforce once the sale contract has
been concluded. The investor who is prepared to pay a higher price than any of its competitors to
purchase the company as a going concern is risking his own capital or his credit. As such, he is
presumably confident that he can make the greater impact on the profitability of the company, and should
also have the most convincing business plan.



- 48 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
5.           Finally, the proper assessment of the details of all the business plans submitted by the
investors represents an enormous workload for the members of the Selection Committee which might well
slow the privatization process to a crawl.
6.           Accordingly, the selection of the winning proposal should rely on a two step process:
a.    Evaluation and ranking of all the proposals on the basis of market price alone (i.e., the
price offered by the potential investors in a fully competitive process). If an ....estor
offers a purchase price for the company which is clearly above the others, far example,
by 5 to 10 percent or more, then the Committee should decide to sell the conpany to this
investor. No evaluation of the business plans would be necessary.
b.    In the event that several of the highest proposals are within, say, a 5 to 10 percent price
range of each other, then and only then would the business plans of these competing
proposals be evaluated, with each element of the business plan appropriately weighlted.
In this case, the final winner would be the investor which offers a purchase price within
the highest range, and accumulates the greater number of points (weights) for the quality
of his business plan.
7.           Each criteria used to evaluate the business plan should be assigned a proper number of
points reflecting its respective contribution to the turnaround of the company, and to its future growth
as a profitable activity. An example of such criteria is as follows:
a.    the investor's access to new markets ........................   . ni points
b.    new investments he intends to make in the company
over a two to three-year period.. ...                               n2 points
c.    evidence of the business experience and success in mailaging
an industrial or commercial enterprise of the investor and
members of his proposed management team  ........ . ............ n3 points
d.     access to, and knowledge of, new technology and new products ..... .  .    . n4 points
e.    level of employment maintained and amount and type of training
hie plans to conduct for the company's employees.   ...  n5 points
TOTAL for the overall quality of the business plan:                 N points
8.           The proposed system would ensure:
a.    that the enterprises are sold on the basis of a realistic assessment of their economic and
financial potential, rather than on the basis of accounting data. Worldwide experience has
demonstrated that this is essential to mobilize investors' interest;
b.    that the Government selects the investors who is most likely to have the maximum
positive impact on the privatized company. Indeed, having invested the highest, or close
to the highest, amount of his own capital, it will have the strongest incentive to ensure



- 49 -
Page 3 of 3
that the company is successful, generates adequate returns to his investnent and provides
benefits to the economy as a whole (through increased production and possibly exports,
tax revenues, level of employment, etc.);
c.    maximum transparency and objectivity in the selection process, with the consequent
protection of the members of the Selection Committee from both pressure from the
investors and unjustified claims from the public that the process is conducted in secrecy
andlor in an unfair manner; and,
d.    reduction in the workload of the State Property Fund (SPF) and the members of the
Selection Committee, thus guaranteeing that an acceptable pace is maintained in the
implementation of the privatization process.
9.           It is clear, however, that a significant public education effort will be required on the part
of the Government to explain these principles, and the benefits derived from their implementation in the
privatization of the medium- and large-scale state-owned enterprises, to the general public.
PESAC
Kyrgyz Republic



- so -
Annex V
Page I of 18
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRIZE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
The Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA)
Objectives
1.           Under the reform program, the Government will establish a new, high level, semi-
autonomous agency, the Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA) to tackle the
restructuring/liquidation of up to 30 LLMEs which are, or are potentially, in serious financial difficulty.
A list of 29 enterprises has been drawn up by the Government (Attachment A). With two exception,
these enterprises are all majority or fully State-owned. They have been selected on the basis of their level
of indebtedness to the banks and/or to other enterprises as of January 1, 1994. Although heavily
indebted, state-owned utilities have been excluded from the list b,.cause their restructuring will involve
a series of complex pricing and regulatory issues, and liquidation is not a realistic option.
2.           ERRA's primary task is to oversee the passive restructuring of salected LLMEs within
a reasonable time span (on average, no more than three years) and to liquidate non-viable enterprises.
Passive restructuring means taking actions to turn an enterprise into profit without new major investment.
Legal Basis
3.           A presidential decree has establisbed ERRA, under the Office of the Prime Muiister as
a temporary agency with a mandate of four years from the date of its establishment. This decree has also
set out ERRA's operating principles and organization structure.
4.           For enterprises owned or controlled by the Government, the decree has included a
directive to all ministries and State agencies: to cooperate with ERRA; not to interfere in its activities;
and, to act as instructed by ERRA wilen required to do so. In relation to the two enterprises not
controlled by the Government, the shareholders have been requested to cooperate.
5.           ERRA will have wide and sufficient powers under the Insolvency Law to engage in
restructuring, especially since it will control over 60 percent of the creditors in number and amount. This
gives the Agency substantial rights under the Insolvency Law. Liquidation can then occur with or without
the involvement of the court, though the latter would be preferable.
6.           The legal basis will therefore exist for the operations of ERRA outside of the Insolvency
Law processes in most cases or make use of those processes if necessary. Insolvency 'regulations' will
have to be drafted in order to allow ERRA maximum scope for its operations, including assurances that
ERRA or its nominee will be appointed liquidator when necessary.



- 51 -
Anme V
Page 2 of 18
Structure of ERRA
7.           ERRA will have a Board of Directors appointed by and responsible to the Government
to ensure that the Agency performs its functions according to its mandate. The Board will be chaired by
the First Deputy Prime Minister and will include Ministers responsible for Industry and Trade,
Agriculture, Labor, the Minister of Finance, Chairmen of the State Committee for the Economy,
Governor of the National Bank, Vice Chairman of the SPF and representative(s) from the commercial
banks.
8.           The agency will have a full-time chief executive, the Managing Director, of ministerial
rank who will also sit on the Board. The Board will approve the go-ahead on restructuring plans and
liquidations. Members of the Board will also provide advice and support to the Managing Director on
major issues.
9.           The Board of ERRA will have sole power and authority to decide on the future of all
enterprises under its responsibility. Its decisions will be binding and will be effected in the name of the
Government and other creditors. ERRA's authority will extend to the appointment of a new management
teams in the enterprises, if deemed necessary.
Key Operating Principles and Procedures
10.          The operations of ERRA will be guided by the following set of fundamental principles:
a.    Restructuring efforts will be limited to enterprises in great financial distress and whose
impact on the survival of other enterprises (through inter-enterprise debt) and/or banks
(via non-performing loans) is most critical. Priority attention will therefore be directed
to those enterprises with the greatest level of total (gross) indebtedness;
b.    ERRA will not deal with enterprises scheduled for early privatization;
c.    As early as is feasible, ERRA will commission the management of each enterprise, with
the assistance of outside experts, to undertake a viability diagnostic study. The diagnostic
study of each enterprise will:
i.      estimate its overall recent performance and current financial position;
H.      identify the nature and extent of direct and indirect budget support received;
iii.     assess the extent of over-employment;
iv.      identify the nature and assess the impact of social services provided by the
enterprise;
v.       assess the existing and potential market for the enterprise's existing products, and
for products which could be manufactured with the existing equipment, and



- 52 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 18
evaluate the viability of the various factories, product lines and other business
units within the enterprise;
vi.       evaluate existing restructuring plans;
vii.       assess the options for restrueturing including, but not limited to, closure of non-
viable operations, quick privatization of peripheral activities and rationalization
of production; and
viiiL      prepare a time-bound restructuring program  for the enterprise, including an
assessment of financial and economic benefits and costs.
Until such time as the viability diagnostic study for each enterprise has been completed
and the report submitted for review to the Board of ERRA, the agency will act as trustee
for each enterprise (or for its shareholders in the case of a company).' Each enterprise
will be under a CMP by which ERRA will limit further financial losses as far as
possible. The costs of the care and maintena&ice program will be financed through
ERRA;
d.     Under the 'care and maintenance" program, the enterprises will immediately close down
their operations to prevent further build-up of inventories and reduce costs to a minimum
pending a detailed assessment of the viability of their product line(s). Should the costs
and technical constraints associated with re-starting of a closed line of production be
excessive, the line will be kept operating at a minimum level of production to prevent
these costs. One of the first tasks would be to identify the products (i) which have a
ready market, (ii) whose manufacture is clearly profitable and (iii) which generate cash
revenues. Until this assessment is concluded, only a core team of personnel will be kept
at work in the premises to maintain the buildings, ensure that the equipment is kept in
good working condition and safeguard the property. No further purchase of new
machinery and equipment and raw materials will take place, and energy consumption will
be limited to the minimum required for the above. The company might also keep a
number of sales staff to endeavor to sell the existing inventory and raise some revenues.
Essential social services, chiefly health care and schooling facilities, will continue to be
provided to the employees and their families. All other employees will be put on
administrative leave, and be paid a percentage of their salary, somewhere between the
existing unemployment benefits and their former salary, pending the conclusion of the
viability study of the enterprise and a decision regarding its restructuring, or closure. At
that time only, would their employment cor.tracts be cancelled, or renegotiated.
ERRA wilU be acting on behalf of the Govenrnent with respect to debt taken over from the banks and on behalf of other creditos
of the selected enterprises. It wiU also havo a positive role in directing the enterprises towards viability. It will therfore, in a legal sense.
be acting in something akin to a dn*slee role.



- 53 -
Annex V
Page 4 of 18
e.    Enterprises will be corporatized as joint stock companies and the corporatization process
will be one of the early tasks in ERRA's action program. ERRA will determine whether
an enterprise should be corporatized as one company or whether several companies
should be incorporated (concurrently or later) according to its constituent operating units;
f.    The working presumption for ERRA will be liquidation, i.e., time-phased closure and
divestiture of assets. The burden of proof would be on each enterprise arguing against
liquidation. Further, all ERRA restructuring programs will be time-bound. If, at the
expiry of an agreed upon period of time, an enterprise has not successfully completed its
restructuring program, or a financial turn-around is not evident, the enterprise will be
liquidated according to an orderly and progressive closure program;
g.    The preferred method of restructuring would be through the process of "hiving off"
which is the simplest and cleanest way of dealing with liabilities-burdened entities. This
includes separating viable business operations into one or more newly formed joint stock
companies and leaving non-viable operations and any uncleared debt in the original
enterprise which is then closed. The process of "hiving off' occurs as follows:
the liquidator decides what assets, employees and parts of the business can best
be saved as a going concern. This might be in one business, or perhaps several;
ii.     for each new business which he decides to establish, he sets up a new company
in which he is sole shareholder. This company has no capital at first;
iii.     he sells (or "hives off") all or part of the assets of the insolvent company to the
new company. Some assets may be retained in the insolvent company and sold
separately if the liquidator has good ground to think that they will bring a higher
price than if they were part of the new company, or if their transfer to the new
company does not make business sense;
iv.      the new company pays for the assets by issuing shares to the liquidator;
v.      the liquidator sells the shares in the new company for the best price he can get.
The price should be good because the new company has the viable assets, but
none of the debts or other liabilities, of the insolvent -company;
vi.     the proceeds of the sale of the shares and the assets of the insolvent company
sold piecemeal are distributed to the creditors who may, or may not, be paid in
full; and
vii.     the existence of the insolvent company, which has no remaining assets, can then
be terminated. This method has the overwhelming advantage that new
company(ies) can start their operations, using the productive assets, without
waiting for the conclusion of the long and difficult process of sorting out the
liabilities of the insolvent company.



- 54
Annex V
Page 5 of 18
For this purpose, ERRA will have sole discretion to use the powers set out in Article 27
of the Insolvency Legislation.
h.    Enterprises will not be allowed bank credit. ERRA will arrange for normal banking
services and will oversee the management of the enterprises' bank accounts through
receipt of regular cash flow reports, and copies of bank statements.
L.    Financial assistance during the care and maintenance period of an enterprise, and during
implementation of its restructuring plan will be provided by the Government, through
ERRA, in a transparent manner from the State budget.
J.     Beyond the costs of maintaining the enterprises under "care and maintenance', financial
assistance wiLl also be provided by ERRA on the basis of the diagnostic study of each
enterprise. Funds will be provided either to support the cost of orderly liquidation or,
if the Board of ERRA is satisfied that credible evidence has been provided to the effect
that the enterprise or some of its parts can be viable, only on the basis of the detailed
"turnaround/restructuring plan" and only for t he purposes identified in this plan. ERRA
will approve all financial plans before funds are c2mmitted. It will have the authority
to monitor the use of funds by the enterprises, and to compel changes in expenditure and
investment by the enterprise's management to ensure compliance with the specified
restructuring plan;
k.    All ERRA supported restructuring will be a one and only exercise. Restructuring will
be passive and will focus on: (i) business rationalization and down-sizing; (ii) closure of
non-viable business units and disposal of excess or unproductive assets; (iii) separation
and disposal of peripheral activities; (iv) elimination of over-staffing; (v) debt clearance
and other forms of financial restructuring; and (vi) enforcement of "hard payment'
system. A limited amount of working capital, an amount sufficient for the payment of
wages and purchase of supplies that cannot be funded from the enterprise's cash flow,
and financing for the maintenance or repair of essential equipment may also be provided
to keep those components of an enterprise with good prospects of viability operating
during the implementation of the restructuring plan. As a rule, new investments in plant
and equipment will not be financed. In exceptional cases, limited investment in
equipment, such as replacement of a machine tool, may be considered only if it is
essential to maintain in operation a clearly profitable production line and it guarantees a
high and quick financial return;
I1.    In the event that ERRA concludes that an enterprise should, on commercial and financial
criteria, be closed but that there may be net economic benefits from its continued
existence, the Government will have to decide whether or not it wishes to provide budget
support. In the absence of actual Government financial support witiin a time scale
stipulated by ERRA, the agency will proceed to liquidate the enterprise.



- 55 -
Annex V
Page 6 of 18
Staffing
11.          ERRA will be a lean agency. It will have 10 permanent professional local staff supported
by 5 long-term advisers from a reputable international firm of consultants. The local professional staff
will comprise: (i) a senior financial analyst and four other financial analysts; (ii) an economist; (iii) a
person to be trained to become a liquidator; (iv) a social adjustment officer to deal with the sensitive issue
of planned redundancies; (v) a public relations officer; and (vi,) a lawyer. The consulting firm will
provide the following long-term advisers: (i) the lead adviser, who will be an expert in enterprise
restructuring; (ii) a financial adviser; (iii) a specialist in liquidations; (iv) an industriallfinancial
economist; and (vi) a specialist in conmpany legal matters. The proposed organization chart of ERRA is
presented in Attachment B.
12.          The consulting firm will also assist in the selection and provision of short-term foreign
specialists as required to: (i) undertake the diagnostic studies in conjunction with enterprise managements;
(ii) prepare liquidation and restructuring plans to be submitted to ERRA for review and approval; and
(iii) to advise and assist ERRA, as required, in new technical areas such as financial and economic
analyses and liquidations.
ERRA Financial Arrangements
13.          Financial Support from the State Budget. ERRA would be provided with a fixed
amount of budget funds to be reviewed at intervals as the program advances. It has been estimated that
during the life of the Credit the Govermment would need: (a) roughly US$10 million equivalent of
domestic currency for the Employment Fund (which provides unemployment benefits and other programs
for the unemployed), as and when needed; and (b) US$50 million equivalent of Soms to finance the
CMP, to settle net debt owed by enterprises under ERRA to the Government, to other enterprises, and
overdue loans to the banking system. The final amount to be used for (b) above, will be decided annually
in consultation with the Government, the IMF and IDA to ensure consistency with the macroeconomic
framework, and would be used for the following purposes in the given order: (i) providing social
services and severance pay; (ii) paying the salaries of workers of enterprises under the CMP placed on
administrative leave during the period of diagnostic studies, and other ancillary costs of the CMP; (iii)
financing, until they generate enough cash flow and the minimum working capital requirements for those
sections of the enterprises which the viability assessment has found viable or potentially viable; (iv)
repaying (net) debt to the Central Government, debt to suppliers (inter-enterprise arrears); and (v)
repaying overdue bank debts. Where feasible inter-enterprise arrears would be immediately reconciled.
Financing for (iii), (iv), and (v) above would be undertaken on the basis of the restructuring and/or
liquidation plans prepared for each individual enterprise as a result of the viability assessment.
14.          At the end of the strictly time-bound process, non-viable enterprises will have been
liquidated and successfully restructured enterprises would be cut off from further direct or indirect
Government financial resources. They would resume relations with the banking sector on commercial
terms and be included in the Privatization Program.



- s6 
Annex V
Page 7 of 18
15.          Debt Clearance. As a part of the enterprise restructuring program, the not debt to the
Government, overdue suppliers credits and non-performing bank loans of the LLMEs will be addressed.
Budget funds will be used by ERRA for the debt clearance exercise.
a.  Net Debt to the Govermnent and Inter-Enterrise Debt. As a priority task, ERRA will
prepare a debt matrix covering the selected enterprises and the amounts due to and from the
central Gyovernment. The matrix will determine the extent of possible debt which can be offset
between the enterprises themselves and between the enterprises and the Government. ERRA will
then issue instructions, and provide assistance if necessary, to net off these amounts. ERRA will
then carry out a case-by-case review of the remaining creditors of each enterprise so as to
determine how much of the remaining amounts due to other enterprises and net amount due, if
any, to the Govenmment should be settled. ERRA will, in general, only settle overdue debts of
Kyrgyz creditors. Overdue debts are defined as amounts outstanding for over six months.
b.     Non-Performing Bank Loans. At present, the LLMEs are indebted to the banks,
which are, in turn, indebted to the NBK. Loans to the LLMEs appear as assets on the
commercial banks' balance sheets, matched on the liabilities side by the credits that have been
extended by the NBK to the commercial banks CTables I and 2). The ERRA will take over the
non-performing loans of the LLMEs from the banks. At the same time, the NBK will cancel an
equivalent amount of the tliabilities" incurred by the commercial banks through NBK refinance
credit. Thus, the assets and the liabilities of the commercial banks would decline as the
non-performing loans of the LLMEs are removed from their balance sheet and the matching debts
that the banks incurred with the NBK are cancelled. ERRA's payment for the non-performing
loans will then be made directly to the NBK. The Government, through the ERRA, will pay the
NBK with a long-term bond.
Table 1: NBK Balance Sheet for January 1, 1994
(in Million Soms)
ASSETS                                 LIABILMES
Foreign Excbange & Gold      440.2              Forex Debt                1220.5
GOKR Debt                    1452.0             GOKR Deposits             930.4
Credit to Commercial Banks   1082.3             Commercial Banks Deposits   117.4
Other Assets (net)            103.9             Other Deposits (WB)        26.6
Capital & Reserves        378.9
Total                        3078.4                                      3078.4



57 -
Ann&x V
Page 8 of 18
Table 2: Commercial Banks Balance Sheets for Jan 1, 1994
(in Million Soms)
Promstroi         Kyrgyz          Agro
ASSETS
C:ash                                   5.0             63.0            3.0
Deposits with NBK                      36.3             35.1            -.- (a)
Loans                                 201.5            436.9          646.0
Fixed Assets                            2.5              4.1            3.0
Other Assets                      (net) 76.5             8.3          -14.0 (al
Total                                 321.8            547.4          638.0
UABIL1TiES
Deposits                               78.5            138.6           34.0
Loans from NBBK                       148.2 (b)        200.6 (b)      566.0 (b)
Other Banks                            48.1             60.7            0.0
Capital & Reserves                     47.0            147.5           38.0
otal                                  321.8            547.4          638.0
(a)   ASt banks show in thwir balance sheets very large sums in paralel accounts. For Agro, the deposits with
NBK are includod in these accounts which we netted for deriving a balance sheet in an acceptable form.
(1,)    NBK records                   147.0            253.9          582.7
(Promsroy)        (Kyrgyz)       (Agro)
Outline Action Program
16.    As soon as the ERRA Managing Director has been appointed, the agency will undertake the
following key tasks as early as possible:
a.     Draw up detailed operating procedures based on the principles set out above; this will
require the assistance of the long term advisers;
b.     Documentation and netting-off of enterprises' debt to banks and to other enterprises.
In order to do this, ERRA will need to collect debt data on enterprises, and prepare a
debt matrix;
c.     Implement and monitor the application of a "hard payments system" (Attachment C) so
as to prevent a recurrence of inter-enterprise debt build-up; and



- 58 -
Annex V
Page 9 of 18
d.    Complete diagnostic studies and initiate action to restructure or liquidate the enterprises.
Diagnostic studies and action plans will be completed for at least 3 enterprises before the
end of 1994.
17.          Thereafter ERRA will focus on:
,a.    Diagnostic studies and initiating actions on the remaining enterprises;
b.    Directing the implementation of restructuring plans;
c.    The liquidation of non-viable businesses; and
d.    Monitoring of the enterprise reform program so as to judge and report upon the progress
and results of restructuring and to highlight where corrective measures or liquidations are
required.
ERRA Performance Criteria
18.          Given uncertainty about the real underlying performance of the enterprises, it is not yet
possible to set quantitative and financial targets by which ERRA's performance will be judged. In the
early stages of ERRA, the following qualitative measures will therefore be used to assess the performance
of ERRA and its consultants:
a.     Timely completion of the debt matrix and debt-offset exercise;
b.    Application of the hard payments system;
c.     Reduction in enterprise debtors through more rigorous collection;
d.    Timely completion of enterprise diagnostic studies;
e.    Timely implementation of restructuring and liquidation programs as approved by the
ERRA Board. This could be measured by a declining amount of financial transfers from
ERRA to the enterprises either because the enterprise is liquidated and redundancy
payments stop after a period of tine; or because the turnaround/restructuring of the
enterprise is succeeding and the company starts generating positive cash flows.
Non-Performance
19.          Experience in many countries has shown that public enterprise restructuring is extremely
difficult; and there is no dispute that empirical results to date have been disappointing. It is in part this
disappointment which has given such impetus to privatization as the more effective means to improve
economic performance. A key factor in the poor performance of enterprise restructuring has been the
apparent ineffectiveness of the implementing agencies. In the case of ERRA, its Board, Managing



-59-
Page 10 of 18
Director and staff will almost certainly find themselves under pressure, from time to time, not to proceed
with certain restructuring steps or with liquidations. Pressure may take the form of enterprise managers
lobbying the Board or Managing Director to delay or reverse decisions. More likely they will appeal to
other influential persons within the Government.  It is therefore vital that ERRA has - and is
unequivocally seen to have - the support of the President of the Republic, and the Prime Minister.
20.          Nevertheless, there will be a need to build in safeguards. First, there will be a natural
tendency for those in ERRA to want to prolong its existence. Secondly, it will be important to deter any
politicization of ERRA. Thus, the law and/or regulations establishing ERRA must make it clear that:
a.    the agency is only temporary;
b.    it will have a finite life of no more than four years; and
C.  s in the event that it fails to perfbrm, it will be closed down and all enterprises under
ERRA will immediately undergo privatization through downsizing and liquidation, and
be denied all further direct or indirect Government assistance.
PESAC
Kyrgyz Republic



-60-
Annex V: Attachment A
Page 11 of 18
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
f~~~~~~ '*.                     . .                               _.......: .  ..._
Large Loss-making Enterprises        Total       Total      Total         Total       Total        Totai
Receivables   Payables   Kyrgyz       Kyrgyz       Kyrgyz    Non-Kyrgyz
Receivables    Payables    Receivables    Payables
I Frunze Agricultual Machinery Plant            16,606     31,292       2,802        30,432      13,804          860
2 Mercury Kombinat                               9,395     10,399         873         5,697       8,522         4,702
3 Kyrgyz Cable Manufacring Company               1,952      5,947         243         3,680       1,709         2,267
4 Sokuluk Trade Machinery Plant                  1,509      2,027         881         1,421         628          606
5 Kyrgyz Metalhugia KIombinat                    4,894     22,080       1,572        19.873       3,322        2,207
6 Bisbkek Glass Factory  -                       1,904      2,640       1,904         2,640           0            0
7 Miltsai Electric Light Bulb Plant              3,316     12,296       2,555         2,451         761         9,845
8 Kyzylliy Mine Management                         NA         NA          NA            NA           NA           NA
9 Almalyk Min Management                         5,699      5,959         210         2,720       5,489         3,239
10 Osa Cotton Produetion Amalgamadon             10,592      9,957       8,537         9,713       2,055          244
11 Jalabad Asrst-Ayub Cotton Ginnery            22,034      58,149      22,034        58,149           0            0
12 Karasu Cotton Ginnery                          8,267      2,103       8,267         2,103           0            0
13 Kyrgyz Oil                                   202,072    131,432     194,279       117,760       7,793        13,672
14 Tokmlk Meat Ptoessing Plant                  10,500      4,700      10,500         4,695           0            5
i5 Toktnak Cannery                                 335       9,434        335          9,434           0            0
16 Kyzylkdy Tobacco Fementation Plant            18,412       459       18,412           459           0            0
17 Ivanoviki Conastuction Mate  Kombinat          1,192      2,631       1,192         2,631           0            0
18 Kat Ceant & Roof Slate nltegmated Works       44,513     36,456      35,278        33,566       9,235         2,890
19 Kyzylkdy Machine Building Plant                 527        903          112           670         415          233
20 Sate JSC Ak-Djlbek                             4,911      3,137       4,544         2,950         367          187
21 VLKSM Garment Factory                          1,283      2,282       1,283         1,655           0          627
22 Kyrgyznebel Furniture Manufcturing Company     2,553      2,489       1,154         1,772       1,399          717
23 Sosnov Factory of Non-woven Fabric              458        517          392           422          66           95
24 Kenaf Factory                                  1.028       202          171            96         857          106
25 Chemical Plant                                  117        267           99           243          18           24
26 Jal-Abad Furiture Factory                       156        390          153           307           3           83
27 Jalal-Abad Factory of Non-woven Fabric         1,945       .981         862           953       1,083           28
28 JSC Atrtomobile Assembly Pant                 39,161      9,826      32.965         8,647       6,196         1,179
29 Kyzyk-Kij Minig Depazlmeat                     5,614      8,052       3,836         7,964       1,778           88
TOTALS                                       381,369 1  290,326     344,615        266,909      36,754 j     23,417
,/.



Annex Y: Attachment A
Page 12 of 18
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
W:. .S .                     .,... :+t ':'             -.."'4'''-'':'. ,
..    ..'.                    B                          _             . .
Large Loss-making Entrprises          Net      Net Kyrgyz   Net Non-Kyrgyz  Tota Debt   Total Net      Total Net
Receivables   Receivables  Receivables    to Banks    Owed by       Owed in
(Payables)   (Payables)    (Payables)                 LLMEs   Kyrgyz Republc
(1)         (2)            (3)           (4)       (1+4          (2+4)
I Fronze Agricultural Machinery Plant          (14,686)      (27,630)        12,944       3,787      18,473          31,417
2 Memury Kombinat                               (1,004)       (4.824)         3,820       1,433       2,437           6.257
3 Kyzy Cable Manufactring Company               (3,995)       (3,437)           (558)       621       4,616           4,058
4 Sokuluk Trade Machiney Plant                    (518)        (540)             22       1,082       1,600           1,622
S Kyrgyz Metallurgical Koinbmat                (17,186)      (18,301)          1,115      2,353      19,539          20,654
6 Bishkek Class Factory                           (736)         (736)             0         250         986             986
7 Milkai Elecic Light Bulb Plant                (8,980)         104           (9,084)     2,642      11,622           2,538
8 Kyzydiy Mine Management                          NA            NA              NA         250          NA             N
9 Alnalyk Mine Management                         (260)       (2,510)         2,250         NA           NA             NA
10 Osh Cotton Production Amalgimaion               635         (1,176>         1,811       9,349       8,714          10,525
11 Jalalabad Asrat-Ayub Cotton Giunery          (36,115)      (36,115)             0      18,605      54,720          54,720
12 Karasu Cotton Ginnery                          6,164        6,164               0      10,593       4,429           4,429
13 Kyrgyz Oil                                    70,640       76,519           (5,879)    52,979     (17,661)        (23,540)
14 Tokmak Meat Processing Plant                   5,800        5,805              (5)      6,520         720            715
15 Tokmak Cannery                                (9,099)       (9,099)             0       4,739      13,838          13,838
16 Kyzylkiy Tobacco Fermentation Plant           17,953       17,953               0      24,035       6,082           6,082
17 Ivanovsld Construction Matetial Kombinat      (1,439)       (1,439)             0       2,302       3,741           3,741
18 Kant Cenent & Roof Slate Integrated Works      8,057        1,712           6,345       1,000       (7,057)          (712
19 KyzyDdy Machine Building Plant                  (376)        (558)            182           0         376            558
20 Slate ISC Ak-Djibek                            1,774         1,594            180       8,171       6,397           6,577
21 VLKSM Garment Pactory                          (999)         (372)            (627)     4,278       5,277           4,650
22 Kyrgyzmebel Funiture Manufacturing Company       64          (618)            682          24         (40)            642
23 Sosnov Factory of Non-woven Fabric               (59)         (30)             (29)       108         167             138
24 Kenaf Factory                                   826            75             751       2,001       1,175           1,926
25 Chemical Plant                                  (150)        (144)             (6)        125         275             269
26 Jalal-Abad Funiture Factory                     (234)        (154)            (80)          0         234             154
27 Jalal-Abad Factory of Non-woven Fabric          964           (91)          1,055       1,080         116           1,171
28 JSC Automobe Assembly Plant                   29,335       24,318           5,017       8,435      (20,900)       (15,883
29 Xyzyk-Ki Mining Depaitment                    t2,438)       (4,128)          I,690      1,831       4,269           5,959
TOTALS                                        91,043        77.7706         1 3,337 I   156,175 1    64,8721       75.9S9



_ 62 -
Annex V: AttacMt R
Page 13 of 18
ERRA ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
MANAGING VI~2TR     ADIR
4 FINANCIAL.
SOCIAl.                  ~~~~~PUSU             L 1
ADNTRATNfOF ADlRETOAR iALSTA
OFF_C_ OFFC



- 63 -
Annex V: Attachment C
Page 14 of 18
PROPOSED "HARLD PAYMENT" SYSTEM
Background
1.           Ihe current payment system in the Kyrgyz Republic is an extrapolation of the Soviet
system whereby the seller delivers products or services and then initia;cs a demand for payment through
the banking system, This process may work well in an environment that assumes unlimited resources,
and where any shortfalls in company financial performance are automatically covered by the State. But
there is no particular incentive fbr management to order only what it actually needs and can afford. 'There
is no cost attributed to having excess inventory, and delivery of supplies occurs on the basis of the
availability of product from the source rather than on the availability of resources within the user to pay.
Tnere is thus no effective restraint on the ordering of supplies.
2.           The source company equally has little concern over whether it has been paid since delays
in receipt of payment have little direct impact on the ability of the company to operate, since it in.turn
could continue to order products and services from its suppliers without concern as to whether it actually
has the funds available to pay for them. Additionally, a system in which the beneficiary initiates the
demand for payment directly to the payer's bank would appear susceptible to abuse by desperate
companies tempted to raid the accounts of better managed companies. The major concern was meeting
payroll which, if necessary, could be covered by a bank loan or a transfer of budgetary resources. There
is thus limited incentive for a company to actively pursue debtors to ensure prompt payment.
3.           There is little or no incentive for financial discipline within the present system, with the
result that the banks and ultimately the Government are faced with periodic crises when the debts run up
by the companies exceed the absorptive capacity of the banking system.
4.           In addition, this process whereby the payment request is issued by the beneficiary (seller)
violates one of the fundamental principles of sound banking, namely that only the account holder may
issue instructions to the bank to make payments out of its account.
5.           Unless the intercompany payment system is revised to encourage financial discipline, any
attempt to clean up and restructure the Kyrgyz productive sector is likely to be unsuccessful. The
recommendations below provide a specific suggestion for providing such discipline.
Enhancement of Financial Discipline
6.           As indicated above, a reoccurrence of the build-up of inter-company payables must be
actively discouraged if the Government is to hope for any reasonable improvement in corporate financial
management. This could be accomplished through the introduction of a "hard payment" mechanism
whereby bank drafts would be used to control commercial payments.
7.           The introduction of such a system would force buyers only to acquire goods and services
that they have the cash to pay for, and would assure sellers that they will receive payment when goods
or services are provided. It also avoids the problem with pre-payments, where the seller may fail to
deliver goods that have been duly paid for (as in grain) and avoids recourse to inefficient cash payments.



- 64 -
Annex Y: Attachment C
Page 15 of 18
8.           If the buyer does not have the financial resources needed to acquire inputs, then it will
be motivated to cut back production to conform to its ability to sell its products or services and to
improve its sales of existing stock and ensure that it is duty paid for, rather than passing its financial mis-
management on to its suppliers.
9.           Should a company have a legitimate need for working capital in order to operate, then
it would be forced to work with its shareholders to raise capital or with its banks to borrow, giving both
the opportunity to exercise financial prudence and restraint,
10.          Changes in the legal system should not be necessary - although each bank that accepts
such drafts should have a signed authorization on file from the depositor -that the bank is authorized to
debit its account for any retumed items.
1i.          Once this practice has been successfully implemented and financial discipline has been
improved, it would be appropriate to expand the process to allow for deferred payment (where the seller
agrees to delay receipt of payment until after the buyer has had the time to use the inputs in its own
manufacturing and sales cycle, resulting in cash receipts from its own clients), and possibly the
introduction of a rediscountable trade acceptance that would be discounted by the banks and rediscounted
by the NBK. However, proper operation of such a system will require extensive preparation, including
ensuring that the appropriate legal framework is in place to define the rights and obligations of each
party, as well as the operating framework within the banking system and an appropriate level of
understanding among its corporate clients. The modalities of introducing such a system should be worked
out once the banking and legal systems develop the capacity to deal with it, and a technical assistance
program should be developed to assist in this process.
12.          This issue, while somewhat prosaic, will have a critical impact on controlling the raiding
of budgetary resources by companies that are not otherwise prepared to live within reasonable budgetary
resource constraints. It will eliminate the ability of state-owned companies to present the banks and
government with an 'aDproval as done" situation, and allow the decision-making process to consider
whether or not to allocate additional credit up front by forcing the companies to obtain agreement on
additional credit or to rely on existing budgetary resources. In addition, the rejection of additional
resources will properly constrain the company, rather than presenting the seller with an uncollectible
receivable.
13.          It should also be noted that this process will affect all companies, not just those involved
in the restructuring program. It will therefore have an economy-wide impact, and ensure that any
additional resources provided to inefficient companies, whether public or private, be based on a conscious
decision-making process within the funding agencies.



- 65.-
Annex V: Attachment C
Page 16 of 18
Proposed "hard Payment" Process
*14.          Tha present demand payment mechanism should be replaced by the foliowing process:
a.    The buyer requests its bank to debit its account and issue a draft for the agreed price,
made to the order of the seller. The buyer is not motivated to request such a draft until
needed, since its account will be debited immediately;
b.    The bank debits the buyer's account with the face amount of the draft, and credits a
blocked draft account in the name of the company. In this way, funding for the draft
would be assured in much the same way as the issuance or confirmation of bank letters
of credit is assured through a cash collateral account. This draft account should be
interest-bearing to ensure that the bank sees no financial benefit in delaying processing
of the draft when it is presented, but the rate may be sufficiently below market rates so
that the interest differential earnings that the bank gains by investing the finds at a higher
rate than the deposit rate generate enough income to cover the operating expense of
providing the service;
o.    The buyer then takes the draft to the seller, and gives the draft to the seller after the
merchandise has been inspected. In this way, a controlled exchange of value occurs
through simultaneous exchange of the goods for the draft. The draft will need to be
numbered and the drawee bank will have to provide phone verification support so that
the seller can, if deemed prudent, verify the authenticity of the draft;
d.    The seller then takes the draft to its bank for deposit into its account, endorsing it by
signing it and using a company stamp that conforms to the specimen on file with zL.e bank
and with the name of the beneficiary on the draft. The seller is motivated to deposit the
draft as soon as possible so as to avoid loss of access to the funds. The seller should be
prevented from withdrawing the funds for a fixed period of time - possibly 72 hours if
both the buyer's and seller's banks are within a major town and five days otherwise. This
is needed to ensure that the banking system has time to transport the draft back to the
originating bank and for this bank to notify the seller's bank in case of fraud or forgery;
e.    The seller's bank verifies that the beneficiary named on the draft is the holder of the
account to which it is being deposited, so it is entitled to receive the funds. If not, then
it should refuse to accept the draft. If so, then it endorses the draft and guarantees prior
endorsements, then clears the draft back to the issuing bank, following essentially the
same processing path as is currently the case for the demands for payment, with the
exception that the covering funds are assured except in the case of fraud or forgery,
where the buyer's bank would have a fixed period of time within which they could advise
the seller's bank if the draft were not genuine;



- 66 -
Annex V: Attachment C
Page 17 of 18
f.    The presentation of the draft can either be through the NBK or other clearing mechanism
or deposited in an account of the seller's bank with the buyer's bank. The key is that the
seller's bank should receive value from the buyer's bank within the stated clearing time
after presentation, with any processing delay penalizing the buyer's bank through the
continued payment of interest to the buyer even though it no longer has use of the funds.
This will motivate both banks to clear the draft as rapidly as possible;
g.    On receipt of the draft, the seller's bank verifies the authenticity and, if valid, debits the
buyer's draft account, and the transaction is completed;
h.    If the draft is found not to be valid, then the seller's bank should be notified (by phone
if, for example, the amount is over a limit of 5,000 Soms) and the draft should be
charged back to the seller's bank. The buyer's bank that issued the draft should only be
allowed to return it if:
i.     The check instrument is a forgery;
ii.     The name of the beneficiary has been changed;
iii.     The amount shown has been raised; or
iv.     The presenting (seller's) bank did not endorse it and/or guarantee prior
endorsements.
15.          The draft may not be returned for lack of funds except in the case where the issuing bank
was bankrupt.
16.          These concepts should be formalized in revisions to the law on negotiable instruments.
which should be part of the country's commercial code that governs business dealings between individuals
and enterprises.
The difference between the payment system currently used in the Kyrgyz Republic and the new
proposed "Hard Payment" system is described graphically in the next page.



- 67 -
Annex V: Attachment C
Page 18 of 18
EXISTING PAYMENT SYSTEM
(Numbers refer to the chronolo2ical order of events)
1. Orders goods                 -le
Buyr                                     2.(a) Ships goods   --Fi.'
4.(a)           4.(b)                                                                         6. (b)      6. (a)
Account         Payable      4-                      -                      -  - - --        Reeeivable    Account
debited                                                                                                   credited
YES              NO                                                                            NO          YES
2.1b)
-                                                   .4f        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Infflates
request
S. Transfers payment                                              for
Bank of                  IF funds available              Bank of                            Of*
Buyer                              Seller                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~paymen
Buyer    0 -3. Forwards request for payment              Seller
"HARD" PAYMENT SYSTEM
(Numbers refer to the chronologcal order of events)
3. Presents draft
Buyer                                                          .Seller
U~f                        4.(a) Ships goods                                   Se-e
J           22.a)                                                                                       Forwwfs
Requests
bankto        aooeu          8u-m5
Isse a        2. b          thatgood hove
draft to the    Cbr.td ecm018                                                                      7.
order of      blCredri     paMefls uflvm                                                        Credits
the Seiler     b cked
thte Selbr  dfaft                     ',Account
account
L         -                  6. Debits blocked account
Bank of                and twansfers payment             Bank of
:   - * ;   Buyer    e   - 5.  rwards draft forclearIng



- 68 -
Annex VI
Dage I of 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Legal and Regulatory Refonms
1.           Since the pre-appraisal in October 1993 a number of significant steps have been taken in
the way of legal reforms.
The Law on Insolvency
2.           One of the more important of these legal developments was the enactment in January 1994
of the Law on Insolvency (Bankruptcy). This framework law will, when developed, form a workable
basis for the process of liquidation of insolvent enterprises. It requires two further decrees for its
implementation. One of these will be issued by the National Bank, and relater to the liquidation of
insolvent banks. The other, which will be issued by the Government, relates to the liquidation of other
insolvent enterprises. These implementing decrees are urgently required, since the Law is effective from
the date of publication, and in theory, from that date, petitions for liquidation could be brought, although
the courts would be unable to deal with them effectively. The regulations to be drafted must adequately
meet the needs of the proposed ERRA. In addition, it is necessary to provide training in insolvency
concepts and procedures for judges, lawyers, and others likely to be involved in the insolvency processes,
and to begin immediately on the implementing regulations with a view to their rapid production by the
end of June 1994.
The Central Legal Reform Unit
3.           Under the Reform Program, a central Legal Reform Unit will be established to coordinate
financial or market related legal reform activities in the Republic. The President's and Government's
Legal Offices are in agreement that following the implementation of the Constitution and the division of
the former single Legal Office into the two Legal Offices, it is appropriate for such a unit to be
established in the Government Legal Office, but this is subject to furither discussion between the President
and Prime Minister. The initial term of the resident foreign legal adviser will be for one year. The
Legal Reform Unit will have a Head from the Appropriate Legal Office, and two other lawyers, plus the
foreign adviser. Its functions will be to revise existing laws with a view to seeing that they are consistent
with one another, free of ambiguities, and meet the objectives of market liberalization; to review the
implementation of existing economic and market-related laws and to suggest amendments or
supplementary rules or procedures which will enable such legislation to be implemented effctively by
the bodies intrusted with implemenation; to coordinate (and to carry out itself if the Legal Reform Unit
thinks this desirable) the drafting of all economic and market-related legislation; and to coordinate all
foreign assistance relating to leg;slative or regulatory projects or underakings within the Republic or
relating to its laws or regulations.



- 69 -
Annex
Page 2 of 3
Closed-Type Joint Stock Companies
4.           Following the Referendum in January, the President has promoted the rapid development
of the market economy by issuing a Decree of 10 February on emergency measures to tighten state and
financial discipline. This Decree envisages a se'ies of implementing actions, one of which is the
transformation of closed-type state-owned enterprises within four months into shareholding companies
of an open type. This is interpreted to include the form in which newly privatized companies are to be
established.
Lease. Joint Stock Companies and Central Registry
5.           No further significant developments have occurred in relation to the Law of Leases
(although a Law on Land Reforms has been passed which may facilitate the granting of lease rights);
or joint stock companies, except for minor amendments; or the establishment of a central Registry for
companies, security, and land rights (although bureaucratic obstacles to the registration of new enterprises
have been countered by a new decree).
Law on Land Reforms
6.           A Law on Land Reforms has been passed, granting limited (for 49 years, initially) and
transferable rights of use over land, in a legally controversial attempt to deal with the Constitutional
prohibition on private land ownership. Aimed primarily at rural land, this ambiguous measure appears
to deal with rights to urban land as well. The rights of use can be pledged as security for borrowing.
Law on Private Entrepreneurship
7.           A  Presidential Decree signed in late March aims to remove bureaucratic and
administrative obstacles placed in the way of new businesses, by providing that the registration of such
businesses is a formality requiring only an application to the statistical offices of the Republic, and not
the granting of any permission. This will remove what had become a substantial hindrance to private
entrepreneurship. This important Decree also abolished import and export licensing except for a very
limited range of products (for example, weapons, narcotics, some precious metals). It removed the
requirement for persons bidding at privatization auctions, or making deposits in banks, to declare the
source of their funds. The opening of foreign exchange offices will be simplified. Limitations have been
placed on the ability of State organs to obtain excessive information from banks and form private
entrepreneurs. The State Securities Agency has been re-established and is attached to the Government.
By a separate decree of March 26, 1994, the President provided for the establishment in banks of
anonymous (numbered) accounts.
Anti-Monopolies Law
8.           The Law on Restrictions on monopolistic activity, development and protection of
competition, was passed in the January session of the Parliament. It provides a reasonably sound
basis for the operations of the Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC) to which it gives broad general
powers in matters of competition. The law regulates unfair competition generally, including false or
misleading advertising, abuse of a dominant position, restrictive trade agreements, and abuse of admistaive



- 70 -
Annex VI
Page 3 of 3
position. It also regulates mergers and acquisitions, in order to prevent the establishment of dominant
positions. However, AMC must establish norms and procedures for the proper implementation of the
law, and these nonns and procedures should attempt to limit the potentially excessive scope for the law
which might otherwise possibly be construed so as to treat some forms of competitive behavior as
monopolistic even if they are not abuses of a dominant position. It is noteworthy that the Government
can by decree repeal parts of the law insofar as it regulates comnmodity exchanges.
PESAC
Kyrgyz Republic



KblPrbl3                                      rIPABHTEJIbCTBO
*PECRIYBJIHKACb1Hb1H                                       KbiPrbi3CKOA
eKMeTY                       .                   PECnYStnHKH
ut il'. :,4. .  .r 'nv                                      -. hflfllKIx. ..(LO  nI1w1Al:rl 
30 uag 1994 r.
LETTER OF PRIVATIZATIOAND EMM  TERPRXSS SECTOR bpMJUSTMNT POLICY
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
International Development Association
1818 N Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.          since its independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic has launched an
ambitious program to transform its economy, as early as possible, into a market-
oriented one. To this end, it has designed and introduced a number of structural
refonms, and enacted laws and created new institutions to implement them. It has
received considerable assistance from the international community and many
bilateral donors in support of these reforms. IDA and IMF have been particularly
supportive of these efforts through IDA's Rehabilitation Credit, approved in
1993, and ZMF' s stand-by arrangement and a Systemic Transformation Facility
(STP).
2.          To build on and complement the reforms already undertaken  since
1991, the Government is currently in the process of implementing widespread
reforms in the enterprise sector. The principal objectives of these reforms are
to: (i) reduce the role of the State in economic activity through privatization
of state enterprises in productive sectors; (ii) improve the governance of
enterprises that will remain state-owned for an interim period;   (ii) reduce
economic and financial costs to the economy of large loss-making state
enterprises (LL-Ms) through liquidation or passive restructuring; (iv) improve
the en-bling envircnment for private sector development by reducing market
imperfections, price and trade distortions, and barriers to entry and exit; and
(v) ease the social costs of adjustment. By this letter, the Government requests
continued DDA support through the proposed Privatization and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (PESAC).
3.          we would like to recapitulate below the progress made by us in
privatization of enterprises and in implementing the sectoral reforms, and the
actions planned in the near future, with emphasis on those which will be
monitorable under the proposed credit.
I. PRIVATIZATION
4.          In implementing the reforms, we have accorded the highest priority
to a rapid privatization of state-owned enterprises, particularly in services and
industry. In 1992, in view of the leading role and urgency of privatization in
the process of reforming the Kyrgyz economy, the Republic's Zhogorku Kanesh



- 72 -
adopted a new Law on Privatization of State Property (Privatization Law '92) and
the General Scheme of Conditions for Privatization of State Property (Concept
Note  '92).   The Government then developed a program  for 1992-93 with a
privatization target of 35 percent of fixed assets in the enterprise sector by
the end of 1993. By February 1994, about 3500 enterprises, accounting for about
33 percent of all fixed assets of the Republic, had been partially or totally
privatized.   In the agricultural  sector, through conversion of state and
cooperative farms, about 10,000 small private farms were created during the
initial phase of implementation.
5.          Reviewing the progress of implementation of the 1992-93 program, the
Government observed that while the pace of privatization was impressive, the
process was not achieving the desired objective of widening the owtership of
fixed assets of the productive sectors. In order to improve the quality of the
privatization process, the Government prepared a new Concept Note (Concept Note
'93), a new Privatization Law ('93) and a Privatization Program for 1994-95. The
objectives were clearly set out as follows: (a) the methods of privatization will
be transparent, competitive, and conducive to increased economic efficiency; and
(b) efforts will be made to involve the widest possible segment of the population
in the privatization process. The main features of the new approach are: (i)
free use of individual shareholding rights; (ii) commitment to auction off a
proportion of shares in privatized enterprises against vouchers; and (iii)
systematic use of competitive methods of privatization for all categories of
enterprises.
Free Use of Individual Shareholding Rights
6.          The Government has instructed the State Property Fund (SPF) to allow
free exercise of Individual share-holding rights by members of the labor
collectives and ban "closed" forms of Joint Stock Companies at the time of
privatization.    This directive will be applied retroactively to already
privatized enterprises where SPF holds the two-third majority of the shares
enabling it to modify the company charter.   SPF has also been directed to
eliminate from privatization contracts already concluded, any restrictions on the
range of business activities that can be undertaken by privatized enterprises,
and to ensure that ne restrictions of this nature will be placed in the future.
This has been achieved by SPF declaring such restrictive clauses in existing
sales contracts null and void.
Auction of Shares Against Vouchers
7.          The new Concept Note (Concept Note '93), emphasizes that the Special
Means of Payments (SMPs or Vouchers) will be used as the main instrument for the
mass privatization program in 1994-95, by reserving at least 25 percent of the
shares of medium and large-scale enterprises to be privatized for SMP auctions.
This will help meet one of our key objectives of widespread distribution of
ownership. It would also give a much-needed boost to Investment Funds, which so
far have played a minimal role in acquiring shares of privatized enterprises.
The proposed distribution of shares would improve the investment climate for
institutional and large individual investors, including foreign investors, who
will now be able to acquire a controlling interest (up to 70 percent) in medium
and large-scale enterprises.



- 73 -
8.          To protect SMPa from the impact of inflation and to make them
tradeable before investment, the SPF has replaced each holder's SMP allocation
with books of coupons, each coupon being worth a set number of points. This
enables those coupon holdera who are not interested in purchasing sharee of
privatized enterprises to sell their coupons.   It would also provide an
environament for the evolution of a secondary market.
9.          Investment Funds (IFs) have now been assigned an important role in
the operation of the mass privatization program as accumulators of SMPs and lead
-buyers at auctions. Xn order to ensure that the IFs operate free from regional
or state influence, state organizations are now specifically banned from being
founders or shareholders of any Investment Fund. only private entities are now
authorized to set up and operate Investment Funds, without any geographical
limitations.   Shares in privatized enterprises reserved for sale under the
Voucher system will be sold through auctions where IFs will compete against each
other, and with other voucher holders. To protect the interests of investors,
the Government is preparing regulations regarding:   (i) the organization,
operation, management of the Funds; (ii) the registration of shares; and (iii)
the security of shareholders.
Reduacing State Control Over Privatized Enterprises
10.         The Government has decided to stop the existing practice of key
ministries, and local administrations, managing the state shares which are still
held by SPF on behalf of Government in the already prlvatized enterprises. In
the future, SPF will retain both ownership and management control over such
enterprises until the state shares are sold. SPF has also been directed to sell
the state-owned shares in privatized joint stock companies through competitive
methods no later than end-199S.
I1.         Before the release of the Second Tranche, the SPF will conduct a
minimum of 4 voucher auctions in at least 2 different oblasts for the shares
still held by SPF in privatized JSCs, covering a minimum of 10 such enterprises
at each auction.
Systematic Use of Competitive Methods of Privatization
12.         The Government has decided to use the following competitive methods
for all forms of privatization, as provided in the new Concept Note ('93): (a)
small-scale enterprises will be privatized through competitive bids and cash
auctions.   In medium and large-scale enterprises, members of the workers'
collective will be given 5 percent of the shares for free; (b) up to 70 percent
will be offered for sale through competitive tenders to strategic investors
wishing to purchase large blocks of shares; and (c) at least 25 percent of the
shares will be auctioned off against vouchers. Arong the tender terms that will
be evaluated, price will be the key selection criteria but the quality of the
proposed business plan, submitted by the two or three highest bidders will also
be considered, in accordance with the weights agreed with IDA (and announced by
the SPF in Resolution Not 324, of May 12, 1994), if their price offers are quite
close.



- 74 -
13.         Before the release of the Second Tranche, for enterprises still fully
state-owned, the SPF will (a) implement three sets of privatization auctions and
biddings, at least in two oblasts, (b) Invite privatization proposals for a
minimum of 70 enterp_ises included in the Government's 1994-1995 Privatization
Program and will (c) submit a report to IDA indicating (i) the proportion of
enterprises privatized through auctions, bidding and competitive privatization
proposals, and (ii) a plan and timetable for future privatization of enterprises,
satisfactory to IDA.
TI. REFORM OF STATE ENTERPRISES
14.         The focus of our ref orms in the SOE sector will be on improving SOE's
corporate and external governance and introducing financial discipline in their
relations with the Government, banks and other enterprises.
Corporatization of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs)
15.          Under the reform program, the Government has issued orders that all
SOEs, regardless of the timing of their intended- privatization, will be legally
transformed into joint stock companies (JSCs), with SPF holding 100 per cent of
the shares until such time as they are privatized. This will transform SOEs that
have been under the direct and often interventionist tutelage of Government
agencies into entities that are organized to operate increasingly in a commercial
manner. Moreover, corporatization will clarify the property rights, legal status
and authority of SOEs and will Introduce Boards of Directors to represent the
interests of the owners. The Boards of Directors will be given a management
role, and will include outside members not only from the public sector, but also
from the private sector and the professions who are experienced and qualified to
make a contribution to the successful management of the enterprises.   As an
additional step toward modifying the old hierarchical order of corporate units,
and with the further aim of promoting greater competition, corporatization in all
forms of conglomerates will be carried out at the level of the enterprise or
other smallest legal entity within them that has a potential for being a viable
business unit. This will entail the break-up of the concerns unless it can be
shown that their structure has important technological or other size-related
advantages.
Financial Discipline of SOEs
16.         As part of the reform program, it Is also critically important to
effectively impose financial discipline in the SOE sector and to prevent them
from accumulating additional bad debts either to the banks, to other enterprises
and/or to Government. This would be achieved by (a) hardening their budgets
through prudent management of fiscal and monetary policies at the macro level,
and by (b) "hardening" the payment system, through the compulsory introduction
of a bank draft (or a bankers check) that would be used to control commercial
payments. Such a system would force buyers to only acquire goods and services
that they have the cash to pay for, and would assure sellers that they will
receive payment when goods or services are provided. It would also avoid the



- 75
problem with pre-payments, where the seller may fail to deliver goods that have
been duly paid for.
17.         Before the release of the second Tranche, the Government will
implement the "hard Payment" system for all SOre that will be put in a "care and
maintenance program". Successful implementation of financial discipline in these
SOEs should be reflected in no further accumulation of inter-enterprise arrears,
debt to the banking system and/or to the Government.
Liquidation/Restr=cturing of Large Loss-Making Enterprises (LLMEs)
18.         Since many SOEs, particularly LLMEs, have long been facing financial
problems, which constitute the major financial problems of the productive sectors
as a whole, the Government has decided to use the restructuring process to deal
with LLMEs separately, in order to determine whether to liquidate them or,
through down-sizing and restructuring, to reconstitute parts of them into vLable
entities. This will be a gigantic task requiring the continued support of the
donor community.
19.         To initiate and facilitate the task of liquidation/restructuring, the
Government has selected 29 LLMEs, which are currently in serious financial
difficulties. The selection is based on their level of total indebtedness to
banks and other enterprises as of January 1, 1994. At our request, 4 state
enterprises, including two utilities (Kyrgyz Gas and Kyrgyz Energy Company) have
been added to the list, below the line. These enterprises, categorized as the
"Special Group", will receive only technical assistance and policy advice under
the liquidation/restructuring program.
20.         The Government has decided to establish a new high level semi-
autonomous agency, to be called the Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
(ERRA), to handle the liquidation/restructuring of these 29 LLMEs, to start
with. ERRA will be legally established, with a mandate for four years, under the
Office of the irime Minister. Its operations will be supervised by its Board of
Directors (the Board) headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister, and with the
following members: Deputy Prime Ministers responsible for industry, trade and
agriculture; Finance Minister; Chairman of the State Committee for the Economy;
Governor/Deputy Governor of the National Bank; the Deputy Chairman of SPF, and
representatives from commercial banks.
21.         ERRA will be headed by a Managing Director who will be assisted by
a  small  staff  of  experts  and  their  counterparts.    The  Board,  on  the
recommendations of ERRA's Managing Director, will have sole power and authority
to decide on the future of all enterprises under its responsibility.   Its
decisions will be binding and will be made in the name of the Government. In
certain exceptional cases, however, the Government may wish to take the final
decision. The Government will place under ERRA's "care and maintenance program
(CMP)" all SOBs selected for liquidationlrestructuring.  ERRA will try to limit
further financial losses of these enterprises while their viability diagnostic
studieo are in progress. All financial assistance, Lncluding any subsidies, to
these enterprises, during the care and maintenance period, will be provided by
the Government through ERIA in a transparent manner from the state budget.



- 76 -
These enterprises will be denied accese to Bank credit and, ERRA will control
their access to normal bank transactional services.
22.         Before Board presentation of the proposed Credit, the Government will
(a) announce the appointment of ERRA's Board of Directors, and (b) issue a Decree
(i) transferring the agreed number of large lose-making state enterprises fLL4Es)
under the authority of ERRA and (ii) announcing that theee LLMEs will be put
under "care and maintenance program", no later than September 1, 1994 or at
Credit effectiveness, whichever date is earlier.
23.         Under the "care and maintenance program" the enterprises will
immediately close down their operations to prevent further build-up of
inventories and reduce costs to the minimum poasible, pending a detailed
assessment of the viability of their product line(s). One of the first tasks
would be to identify the products that (i) have a ready market, (ii) whose
manufacturing is clearly profitable and (iii) generate cash revenue. Until this
assessment is concluded, no further purchase of raw materials or capltal goods
would take place, and energy consumption would be limited to a bare minimum. The
enterprises will keep a core team of maintenance and security personnel and sales
staff to endeavor to sell the existing inventories and raise some revenue.
Essential social services, primarily health care and schooling facilities, will
continue to be provided to the employees and their families. All non-essential
employees will be asked not to report to work, and be paLd an "agreed" percentage
of their salary, pending the conclusion of the vLability study of the enterprises
and a decision regarding their restructuring or closure, At that time only, will
their employment contracts be cancelled, or renegotiated, if needed. Funds from
the state budget would be used to finance the costs of the "care and maintenance
program. "
24.         It has been estimated that during the life of the Credit the
Government would need roughly US$10 million equivalent of domestic currency for
the Unemployment Pund, to be provided as and when needed; and, US$50 million
equivalent of Soms to finances (i) the "care and maintenance program", involving
minimum amounts of working capital requirements; and (ii) the settlement after
netting oint of debt to the Government, debt to other enterprises, and non-
performing loans to the banking system. The size of these budget funds for 1994
has tentatively been agreed with the IMF. The final amount to be used for these
purposes, will be decided in consultation between Government, the IMF and IDA to
ensure consistency with the existing macroeconomic program.
25.         The non-performing bank loans of the LLMEs would be cleared in the
following way. ERRA will take over the liability of the LLME's to the banks. At
the same time NB1 would cancel an equivalent amount of the liabilities incurred
by the banks to NBK through refinance credits. This will clear up the non-
performing assets from the portfolios of the banks and an equivalent amount of
their liabilities to the NBK. BRRA's payment for the non-performing loans will
then be made directly to the NBK, preferably through a long-term Government
bond. ERRA's financial support for restructuring would be a one time operation.
ERRA will support only passive restructuring, not involving new capital
investment for significantly changing product line or production process.



- 77 -
26.         Before the release of the Second Tranche,  ERRA will complete
viability assessment of at least 3 large-loss making enterprises under its
responsibility, and ERPA's Board will take a decision on the liquidation or
restructuring program in respect of these enterprises.
III. REFORM OF PRICE ANDI TRADE POLICY
27.         The reform of price setting, and liberalization of trade are
continuing in the Republic to conform to the conditions of a market economy. The
Government recognizes that a dynamic and growing private sector is a critical
ingredient of transition from a command to a market economy.   The Government
supports the development of a strong, efficient and competitive private sector.
The continuLng efforts to restore macroeconomic stability, and the exchange and
trade policy reforms implemented thus far, have been beneficial to private sector
activity. Issues related to Private Sector Development (PSD) cannot be fully
dealt with in the context of the proposed Credit. However, continued removal of
key policy and regulatory constraints will help improve enterprise efficiency,
and create a market environment in which private initiative can flourish.
Price Policy Reforms
28.         Since independence, the Government ?.as made considerable progress in
reducing the scope of price controls and moving towards a more open and liberal
trading environment. In January 1992 most explicit price controls were
liberalized. However, the flexibility of the price system has been impeded by
a set of sabsequent state interventions.
29.         Removal of Trade Margins. Wide ranging trade margins were introduced
in June 1993 by the Committee for the Introduction of the National Currency. In
August l9C,3 the coverage of these margin restrictions was reduced to imported
goods. The power to impose and modify trade margins was subsequently vested in
the Anti-Monopoly Committee, now a department in the State Committee on the
Economy. Under a new resolution introduced in November 1993 (resolution number
110 of 23rd November 1994) margin controls were reduced to milk and dairy
products, meat and butter, bread, flour, cereals, spaghetti, margarine and eggs.
30.         Under the reform program, the Government has decided to remove all
restrictions on trade margins, with the exception of bread. This decision was
put into effect on May 16, 1994 (Resolution 334).
31.         Anti-Monopoly Regulation.-.  The Antimonopoly Departnient (AMD) has
made important progress in identifying 'natural' monopolies and reducing the
number of companies defined as monopolies. Furthermore, important progress has
been made in preparing legislation that focuses on interventions based on abuses
of power by natural monopolies. The number of companies whose output prices are
controlled by the Anti-Monopoly Department has been reduced from 71 in May 1993
to 9 'natural' monopolies, and 9 'permitted' monopolies. The permitted monopolies
include a range of goods for which there is competition from imports - vodka,
cognac, champagne, cigarettes, glass jars and bottles, and baking powder. With
the free availability of competing imports, enterprises in the Kyrgyz Republic



- 78 -
should not be able to extract monopoly rents, as consumers would simply switch
to cheaper imported products.
32.          As part of the reform program therefore, the Government (a} has
further reduced the number of monopolies that are directly regulated froma 18 to
9 natural monopolies (which include the Bread Complex) with the rew.oval of those
'permitted' monopoliet, and {b) the Zhogorku Kanesh has passed the legislation
on Restrictlng Monopolistic Activity- and Developing and Protecting Competition.
The Government is also taking action to accelerate the demonopolization and
privatization process in wholesale trade and transport sectors (see paras. 42-44
below).
33.         The  monopoly  power  of  the  bread  complex  has  already  been
significantly eroded by the establiahment of many small bakeries, undermining the
case for including the bread company as a 'monopoly'.   Nevertheless it is
important to recognise that bread represents an important element of food
security and there is a serious concern on the part of the Government to Limit
any excessive price rises. The removal of bread complex from the monopoly list
will be delayed until the break up and privatization of the complex, which should
produce a large number of independent bakeries and flour mills.
34.         State Orders and Supply Contracts.  A wide range of indirect price
controls have been in place until 1992 through the imposition of compulsory state
orders and domestic supply contracts. During 1993, in reaction to shortfalls in
Government procurement, state orders were re-introduced for a limited range of
goods. Early in 1994 there were indications that state purchases would remain
compulsory. The Covernment resolution on 'stimulation of production and sales of
agricultural products in 1994', issued in January 1994, announced "state needsm
for 1994.
35.           In February 1994, the Government passed a decree explicitly
abolishing state orders and establishing that state needs will be executed on a
'contractual basis' (Decree 50, Clause 9). State needs consist primarily of
agricultural goods deemed crucial for social protection; direct Government
procurement, such as food supplies for the army; and goods needed to fulfil
commitments made under bi-lateral clearing agreements.   Eggs, mtlk, honey,
fruits, vegetables and silk have been removed from the list. Compared to planned
procurements for 1993, planned state needs have fallen by 33 percent for grain,
by 78 percent for meat, by 66 percent for wool, by 66 percent for tobacco and by
9 percent for cotton.
36.          Under the Reform Program, the Government has agreed (a) to continue
to implement its policy of not imposing any compulsory purchase orders, and (b)
to take all necessary measures on its part to reduce the coverage of bileteral
clearing arrangements with a view to phasing them out completely.
37.         The need to phase out the bilateral clearing agreements has already
been recognized by the Government (Decree No. 84, February 24, 1994). Their
existence as interim tracing mechanism however can be justified in a situation
where an effective inter-republican payments system has not yet been established
and where strategic trading partners request such agreements. It is critically



- 79 -
important that the domestic implementation of these agreements is placed on a
commerclal and transparent basis, to avoid the situation where the agreements are
used to provide substantial implicit subsidies to state enterprises, at the cost
of imposing substantial implicit taxes on primary producers.
Trade Policy Reforms
38.         Removal of Export Licensing:  The Government recognizes that the
continuation of the export licensing system prevents the development of effective
multi-channel export marketing and leaves open the possibility of enforcing large
implicit taxes on exporters particularly in the agriculture sector through
excessively low procurement prices. The Government's recent reform efforts have
focussed on the reduction in the number of goods requiring licensing from 50 to
31. However, the list of 31 goods still covered the Republic's most important
exports.
39.          Under the reform program, a decree issued by the Prime Minister in
February 1994 (No. 84, February 24, 1994) abolished all export and import
licensing requirements with the exception of a list of 8 restricted goods
(weapons,  explosives,  nuclear mater olr poisons,  drugs,  works of art and
antiques, precious rare earth metals * 1 rare animal and vegetable matter used
in pharmaceutical production).
40.          Elimination of Export Taxes.  The Government agrees that export
taxes act as a serious disincentive both to production for export and to the
development of flexible private sector marketing channels. Over the second half
of 1993 the schedule of export taxes was revised on four separate occasions. The
schedule until May 1994 has covered a wide range of goods with a considerable
dispersLon of rates, from 5 percent for llvestock and fruit, to 50 percent for
sugar and cereals, and 80 percent for wild animals and plants. The frequent
revision of tax rates has been accompanied by a growing number of country
specific exemptions that have been negotiated in the context of bi-lateral trade
agreements with neighbouring republics. Exports to and imports from Azerbaijan,
Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan
are not subject to export taxes. Imports from Russia are also not subject to
import duties.
41.         In order to improve the environment for exports, the Government has
decided to reduce the list of goods subject to export taxes to 9: bread; butter;
sugar; vitamins; live animals; silk worms; raw cotton; scrap metal; and rare and
wild animals (Resolution No:335 of May 16, 1994). The rate of export taxes does
not exceed 30%, except on rare animals which is 80%.   The Government has also
decided to reduce the number of items subject to export taxes to 3 (hides and
skins, live-animals, and rare and wild animals) by the end of 1994, and eliminate
them completely by end-1995.
42.         Domestic Trade Liberalization:   Under the Reform Program, the
Government will accelerate the de-monopolization and privatization of wholesale
trade, warehousing and road transport with a view to ease private sector entry
and to enhance competition. In the transport sector, the pace of privatization
has been slow compared to the distribution sector, and most of the enterprises



- 80 -
are still 100 percent, or majority, state-owned. As such, the creation of a
competitive environment in the sector can be achieved by SPF in the context of
further privatization process.  To this effect, Government will instruct SPF to
create the conditions for greater competltion in the road freight transportation
at the time of privatization of state-owned enterprises, including through sale
of a significant part of the truck fleets of the existing companies to individual
private owners, and through reorganization of these companies into smaller
economically viable entities prior to their privatization.
43.          Under the reform program, the Government has prepared for discussion
with IDA its proposal for the demonopolization and pxivatization of the Bread
Complex,  It has also agreed to implement the following demonopolization and
privatization program for wholesale trade and transport enterprises before the
release of the Second Tranche: (a) in the wholesale trade, the Government will
demonopolize and privatize 4 fully state-owned enterprises, (b) in the transport
sector, the Government will break-up the existing 3 holding companies, and
privatize 10 large trucking enterprises.
44.         As part of the reform program, the Government will also conduct an
organizational assessment of the Ministry of Industry and Trade consistent with
its changing role and responsibilities. The dismantling of the state order and
procurement system and the privatization of the state owned wholesale and retail
trade sector will have major implications for the structure and functions of the
Ministry of Industry, Trade and Material Resources. The future role of the
Ministry will be focussed on the negotiation of interstate trading agreements,
the implementation of regulatory functions and, possibly, the provision of market
information. It can be expected that there will be a rapid rLse in the demand
for marketing and trade support services from the emerging private sector, as
such skills were almost completely absent at the enterprise level under central
planning.   These fundamental changes and the skill gaps that they imply,
highlight the need for a review of the functions and organizational structure of
the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Material Resources, to identify suitable
institutional reforms and a program of assistance to implement these reforms.
At the same time there is a need to assess which functions of the Ministry could
be effectively spun-off into separate commercialized entities to provide support
to the private sector. This assessment will be conducted and its results be put
into effect, under tne reform program.
Reform of Legislation and Normative Enactments
45.         In order to facilitate transition from a command economy to a market
economy, the Government has, since Independence, enacted a large number of laws,
as and when considered necessary. The Government recognizes that there is a
pressing need now for carrying out a comprehensive review of the existing legal
and regulatory framework to ensure that it is appropriate for implementing the
political and economic reforms already approved and planned by the Government.
Under the PESAC reform program, the Government has enacted two legislatLon: The
Insolvency Law and the Antimonopoly Legislation. It has also prepared an action
plan setting out the steps and the timetable for amending/enacting legislation
and regulations required to liberalize and foster the development of private
sector activities.



- 81 -
46.         Legislative Action Plan   in order to improve the regulatory
environment for private sector activity, the Government will further pursue, with
the assistance of consultants' services to be financed under the Rehabilitation
Credit, its legal reform program. For that purpose, the Government has, by an
order of the President, already established a Legal Reform Unit in the Office of
the President.
47.         By Decree of the President (Number 34 of March 25, 1994), the Kyrgyz
Republic has defined the institutional responsibility regarding the registration
of companies in the district, provincial and central office of the State
Committee for Statistics. In May 1994, the Government has approved a regulation
on the rules for the registration of companies pursuant to the above mentioned
Decree.
48.         Before the end of 1994, the Government will: (a) prepare and submit
to Parliament a draft law clarifying the rights to lease land and simplifying the
land lease rules; (b) make amendments of the joint stock company law providing
for strict duties on companies in the registration of shares and clarifying the
concept of legal personality and the difference between limited and unlimited
liability; (c) prepare legislation/decree allov.ing for the registration of
security rights by collateral or pledge;  (d) prepare legislation/decree on
competitive state procurement procedures for publicly financed purchases and
contracts; and (e) issue two sets of instructions containing detailed
implementing rules for the insolvency of banks (to be issued by the National
Bank) and for enterprises (to be issued by the Prime Minister) no later than
September 30, 1994. Furthermore, a new comprehensive Company Law will be drafted
and submitted to the Association for comments.
IV. SOCIAL WELFARE
49.         Given the severe fall in output and incomes in the Kyrgyz Republic
and the hardship now being felt, development and Implementation of an effective
social safety net program is one of the highest priorities for Government. In
designing this program, however, the Goverrment faces a difficult problem in
deciding how 4o adequately meet the social protection needs during the
adjustment/transformation process, while at the same time restricting social
expenditures to levels consistent with the economic stabilization program. The
proportion of the Government budget allocated to social spending has already
dropped very considerably since the start of the economic reform program. In
light of this situation, the Government's main concern is (a) how to prepare for
the anticipated rise in unemployment, and (b) how best to provide targeted social
protection to the most needy groups of the population.   The Government
understands that these two key objectives will be supported by IDA through the
proposed PESAC, and the separate Social Safety Net (SSN) credit, also scheduled
for board presentation in June, 1994.
50.         The proposcd PESAC will support (a) key policy actions related to
unemployment compensation and (b) assist with the financing of this compensation.
The Government intends to eliminate incentives for overstaffing by enterprises,
but it also wants to provide adequate compensation for the unemployed. In 1994,
it has reduced the liability of employers for funding severance pay, under the
Employment Law, for laid-off workers. The responsibility for providing immediate
cash support in the form of unemployment benefits to dismissed employees will be
provided through the Employment Fund, administered by the Employment Service.



- 82 -
While the EMployment Fund is presently in surplus, the Government recognizes that
this situation will change rapidly when unemployment increases si6nificantly.
The Government has raised the employer contribution to the Employment PFnd to 1.5
percent of the payroll cost. It plans to introduce a 0.5 percent contribution
from employees.  ln addition, supported ty the PESAC resources, starting in the
1994 budj;et, the Government will include a financial provision to augment the
Employment Fund to cover unemployment benefit payments.
Si.         Under the Soviet system, many enterprises were responsible for the
operation of social services and amenities for their workers and their families.
These services include kindergartens, schools, polyclinics and especially
housing. The Government believes that this arrangement is incompatible with a
market-based economic system. However, a strategy for the divestiture of social
assets from enterprises and for the associated rationalization and restructuring
of essential social services operated by the municipalities needs to be
developed. The Government understans that this will be done under the PESAC, and
it will provide a basis for developing programs and options to minimize this
aspect of social costs of enterprise restructuring. Support foL some follow-up
activities will be included in the SSN project.
52.         The Government affirms that it will try to carry out the reform
program and the various actions referred to in this letter substantially in
accordance with the matrix contained as annex to this letter.
sincerely Yours,
A. DZHF6UMGUV
)  Prime Minister
i~



- 83 -
Annex VIII
Page I of 2
K'VRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
T;metable of Key Credit Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                  9 months
Prepared by:                            The State Committee for the Economy and the National
Bank of Kyrgyzstan with assistance from IDA
Identification mission:                 May/June 1993
Appraisal mission departure:            March 10, 1994
Date of negotiations:                   May 16, 1994
Planned date of effectiveness:          July 30, 1994
Second Tranche Conditions
Disbursement of the second tranche (US$30 million), anticipated in six months after the
disbursement of the first tranche, would be contingent on a review, satisfactory to IDA, of (a) successful
implementation of the reform program as a whole, and (b) fulfillment of the specific second tranche
conditions listed below.
Privatization
i.      Government to conduct a minimum of 4 voucher auctions in at least 2 different oblasts
for the shares still held by the State Property Fund (SPF) in privatzed joint stock
companies (SCs), covering a minimum of 10 such enterprises at each auction;
ii.     (a) For enterprises still filly Government owned, SPF to implement three sets of
privatization auctions and bidding, at least in two oblasts, and to invite privatiaon
proposals for a minimum of 70 enterprises included in the 1994-95 Program;
(b) SPF to submit a report to IDA indicating (i) the proportion of enterprises privadzed
through auctions, bidding and competitive privatization proposals, and (ii) a plan and
timetable for fimre privaization of enterprises, satisfactory to IDA;



84 -
Annex Vml
Page 2 of 2
State Enterprise Reforms
iii.     Government to implement the "hard payment" system for all state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) under the responsibility of Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA),
which should be reflected in no further accumulation of inter-enterprise arrears, debt to
the banking system and/or the Government;
iv.      ERRA to complete the viability assessment of at least three large loss-making enterprises
under its responsibility, and take a decision on the liquidation or restructuring program
in respect of these enterprises;
Private Sector Development
v.      Government to continue to implement its policy of not imposing any compulsory
purchase orders;
vi.      Government to take all necessary measures on its part to reduce the coverage of its
bilateral clearing arrangements with a view to phasing them out completely;
vii.     Government to prepare a comprehensive draft Company Law for review with IDA;
viii.     Government to prepare a report on progress made on the implementation of the
legislative action plan and a timetable for further legal reform actions, satisfactory to
IDA;
ix.      Government to implement an action plan for de-monopolization and privatization of
wholesale trade and transport enterprises including: (i) de-monopolizing and privatizing
4 state owned enterprises in the wholesale trade area (Kyrgyzailtorg,
Kyrgyzmashelectrotorg, Kyrgyzrasnosbyt, and Metalloptorg), (ii) de-monopolizing 3
holding companies, and (iii) privatizing 10 large trucking enterprises in the transport
sector.
PAC
Kyrgyz Republic



- 85
ABn= IX
Page I of I
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans and MDA Cmreits
(as of April 30, 1994)
-~~ or  -.ca   ::rwo                -      po.       .      um   .  I.-. P::A  -   .  :  : ..
Ci di  N o   -. .,.r  - _   _  _  _    - _  _  _  _  _    _ _.:-_- _,: _   o  
CR. 2491     1993      Kyrgyz Republic  Rehabilitation     0.0       60.8       24.2
Credit



- 86 -
Annex-X
Page I of 2
(YRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDfT
Supervision Plan
IlDA Supervision Input
1.           It is envisaged that about 65 staff weeks (four review missions) will be required for
supervision of PESAC - 45 SW in FY95, and 20 SW in FY96. Supervision will involve in-country
review of the reform program; a review of progress reports provided by the Borrower; and review of
procurement and disbursement actions, correspondence and donor coordination.
Organization and Timing of Supervision Missions
2.           Review missions will be led by the PESAC Task Manager and will include staff and/or
consultants who are specialists in areas of privazization, SOE reforms, trade policy, and procurement and
disbursement. Because of the importance attached to the satisfactory macroeconomic performance as a
condition of Tranche release, a macroeconomist from the Country Operations Division will be invited
to participate in the review mission preceding the Second Tranche release. Close cooperation will also
be maintained with the IMF. The Supervision Missions will leave behind detailed Aide-Memoires with
specific suggestions on the next steps to be followed by the Borrower for successful implementation of
each component. The second Supervision Mission (second in FY95) will be called Mid-term
Implementation Review (MIR) and be conducted jointly with IDA and the Borrower. At the end of this
review, a "Timetable of Tranche Release" will be prepared and signed by the Chairman of the State
Committee for the Economy and the PESAC Task Manager. This timetable will specify clearly the
actions to be taken by the Borrower between the mid-term review and the release of the Second Tranche.
Implementation advice, including matters of accounting and auditing, based on experience with the
ongoing adjustment operations, will also be provided on a continuous basis by the Bank's Resident
Mission (to be established) in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Borrower's Contribution to Sup ervision
3.           The State Committee for the Economy with assistance from NBK, SPF, ERRA and the
Ministry of Industry and Trade, will be responsible for implementing the overall Privatization and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program. The State Committee for the Economy, with assistance from the
NBK, will have the primary management responsibility for the reform program, while the Privatization
and SOE Reform components will be implemented by the SPF and ERRA, respectively. In the case of
ERRA, its Board will oversee the whole SOE Reform and resolution exercise.
4.           The PESAC Management Unit (PMU), which will be placed in the State Committee for
the Economy (GOSKOMEKONOMYKY), will be headed bv a high-level member of the State Committee



- 87 -
Annex X
Page 2 of 2
for the Economy, and by an expatriate Project Advisor.   They will be assisted by a
ProcurementDisbursement Coordinator. The Kyrgyz Head of the PMU will also Head the PESAC
Working Group. The PMU and the PESAC Working Group will report implementation progress
periodically to the POLICY COORDINATION COMMIITEE, led by the First Vice-Prime Minister, and
submit quarterly reports to IDA, within one month of the quarter's close. The quarterly reports will
monitor: (a) progress in Privatization and SOE reforms; @b) progress in price and trade policy reforms;
and (c) progress in legislative and regulatory reforms. Responsibility for coordinating arrangements with
IDA supervision missions and for the timely transmittal of quarterly progress reports, other documents,
and information would rest with the State Committee for the Economy.
PESAC
Kyrgyz Republic



_IRD 25844
70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L
K A Z A K H S T A N
/ w_t , _ N - \it X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7
'TASHKENT                                                                                                                                                    N
U Z B E K I S T A  N                C     t g           <     t{--'                                                       u                         
f\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ;j                       gDzo,ngok                              >                                          o           e                        >
- -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PC 49         
N  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K Ky
.                                                                                                       A>  v   . . .   ,  J   .                                                                                 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
10% {> AS.PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
To  hoe       TAJI KJI  STAN                                                                                                                                                                                          +-   RAILROADS
-   MAIN ROADS
/    \I/"                  'oTT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oL                                                                                        - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTIHER ROADS
A=~~#tZV,,J                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATION'ALCAPITALS
AZERRAN                 'o ,,    , .    K A ZKAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                 *   NIOBLASL CAPITALS
't e               r                                  0_ e000,                                                                                                    b,'; n j S<ys.iol;  O sELECTED CITIES
AYE>  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'-'   A                                                                                                                                  RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
OBLAST BOUNDARIES
RED^MC  h  _ - v  habondsres cbrs.:nommiomnd/?   inmion]LMETEes  :5?INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ISLALC   'w  ,                      T          CHINA           shoo-  uumpdo ooup/yoonppoo  Dof Wo,dRoT  IT                                                                        IS)
TRRUC                                          CHNio .t~ H  ~"fooooli
OF IRAN   Ae                                                                                                                                            5 o s7s                       1 o
MAY 1994



