Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2234 
Project Name 
Civil Service Reform Project  
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (80%); Sub-national government 
administration (20%) 
Project ID 
P097030 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 3, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 2, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Government of Afghanistan’s objective as outlined in its Interim National Development Strategy (I-
ANDS) is the establishment of strong state institutions at central and sub-national levels capable of 
achieving measurable improvements in the delivery of services and the protection of rights of all Afghans. 
 
With regard to civil service reform, significant progress has been made in laying the basis for a modern, 
better functioning government, particularly in the context of Afghanistan’s limited capacity and weak 
institutions. This progress includes: (i) the establishment of the IARCSC through the IARCSC Decree and 
the operationalization of its departments; (ii) approval of a new civil service law, (iii) some progress in 
functional audits leading to proposals for new structures of key ministries and agencies at the central 
level; (iv) initial policy work on a new pay and grade structure; (v) progress on the development of a new 
methodology and framework for reform and restructuring; and, (vi) sustained progress in merit based 
recruitment for both senior and junior level civil servants.  
 
Building on this basis, the government has prepared a broader Civil Service Reform strategy, a draft of 
which was presented to donors in November 2005 and is now being updated for further discussion with 
the international community.  This strategy shifts the focus away from previous asymmetric and 
department-centered reforms to a more comprehensive reform involving whole ministries.  It also 
responds to the specific benchmarks under the Afghanistan Compact for civil service reform, but also for 
line ministry reform in pursuit of better service delivery.   
 
2. Objectives 
The objective of the project is to transform a critical proportion of the civil service to one that is 
performing its core functions with improved professionalism; adhering to regularized and transparent 
rules and procedures; and with greater accountability for the use of public resources. 
 
In turn this will contribute to the government’s wider objective of improving the management of public 
expenditures so as to achieve satisfactory and sustainable development outcomes in Afghanistan.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Public administration reform is essential to rebuilding the state, institutionalizing improved governance 
and combating, what is perceived to be, a growing corruption problem.  Strengthening administrative 
capacity within government directly underpins the government’s I-ANDS, promotes use of government 
Page  2
systems over time and m
ore specifically supports effective management of IDA’s portfolio.  Without a 
medium term strategy to build core capacities in line ministries, Afghanistan is likely to remain dependent 
on international technical assistance and/or donor funds flowing outside the government’s core budget for 
some time.   
 
The proposed project is one element of a wider public administration reform agenda that has been 
developed by the government, with IDA support, to address these medium term issues.   
 
·
A
significant piece of analytical work is underway to assist the government to define priorities 
and programs in 
Public Administration Reform
.
This will include specific areas of work on: 
how to deepen line ministry reforms; the evolution of subnational governance over time, and 
strengthening institutions of accountability.  Work is progressing to define an integrated program 
of activities and mechanisms for managing resources in a coordinated way. 
·
As part of defining work programs under this broader PAR framework, IDA has assisted the 
government in defining a realistic 
implementation plan for achieving its civil service reform
 
goals in line with compact benchmarks. This will be presented to donors at the Afghanistan 
Development Forum. 
·
A
major work program is underway, with IDA and other donor support, to assist the government 
develop its 
anticorruption strategy
 and to identify areas where improvements could limit the 
vulnerability to corruption, including in the area of public administration reform;  
·
A
proposed IDA 
Programmatic Support for Institution Building
 (III and subsequent) 
Development Policy Loan is being agreed to support critical reforms in public financial 
management and public administration reform; 
·
A
proposed IDA 
Public Financial Management Reform project
 is being agreed to strengthen 
financial management, procurement and audit practices throughout government;  
·
The ARTF financed 
Management Capacity Program
 is supporting the interim buying-in of 
Afghan consultants into civil service positions to manage core common function departments 
while broader capacity building efforts take hold.  
 
4. Description 
The project is comprised of three components.   
 
Component One: Implementation of Organizational Reforms within Selected Ministries  ($8.4m) 
The project will provide support to selected ministries as they take charge of their own reorganization 
efforts in a post-PRR (Priority Reform and Restructuring) environment.  A particular focus would be 
placed on improving the organization and performance of functions common to all public agencies 
(“common functions”) including administration, human resource management, financial management and 
procurement, and if relevant to that agency’s mandate, development and administration of regulations. 
 
The project would make available to selected ministries a small team of international and national 
advisers who would assist the ministry to ensure structures and staffing plans are reorganized in line with 
agreed functions and service delivery goals. This will build upon PRR exercises already undertaken by 
those ministries, but will approach this from a service delivery angle and involve the whole ministry 
including its sub-national units.  
 
Component 2: Implementation of Human Resource Management Policies ($8.7m) 
 
This component will support the institutionalization of a modern and professional human resource 
management system so that by the end of the project period a critical mass of the civil service will be 
managed, predictably and consistently, according to updated civil service management rules and 
Page  3
procedures. This will have resulted from implementing a modern grading structure and pay levels; merit-
based appointments and vetting procedures undertaken for civil service positions at all levels of 
government, including central government 
(Compact Benchmark 2.1.4)
;
annual performance-based 
reviews undertaken for all senior staff 
(Compact Benchmark 2.1.4) 
and training in new HR procedures 
conducted for more than 1000 HR staff in line ministries. 
 
This component will finance two teams. The first team will comprise international and national advisers, 
who are experts in grading staff.  They will assist the government in implementing its approved pay 
structure in line with the implementation timetable across all ministries.  The second team will comprise 
international and national advisers who are experts in human resource management policies and practices. 
They will be located in the IARCSC with outreach to line ministries.  They will complete the Civil 
Service regulations and procedures and guide their implementation across all ministries.  The component 
will additionally provide funds to update the design of a new fiscally sustainable pension reform.   
 
Component 3: PAR Oversight ($3.3m) 
 
This component will reinforce IARCSC in executing its broad mandate to (i) direct and coordinate the 
Government’s program in public administration reform, (ii) coordinate donor assistance around priorities 
and (iii) conduct the monitoring and outreach required to support the PAR Steering Committee and 
Cabinet Subcommittee on PAR and also to reach out to wider constituencies.  This component will fund 
advisory inputs in program design and management, donor relations and financing, plus financial 
management and procurement, to work with the Program Coordination Department of the IARCSC.  
Separate advisory inputs will work with the IARCSC’s Administrative Reform Secretariat line ministries 
in establishing monitoring indicators and the IARCSC to conduct monitoring of the entire PAR program 
across government.  Separate funding is available to support implementation of a Government’s 
communications plan for PAR for part of the project period. .   
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
20.4 
 Total 
20.4 
 
6. Implementation 
The project would be implemented under the authority of the Independent Administrative Reform and 
Civil Service Commission (IARCSC). The responsibility would be delegated to the Director General of 
the Civil Service Management Department, whose department covers HR Policy and Management and 
PAR Implementation which would be responsible for two of the main components.  Oversight of the 
program would be provided by the PAR Steering Committee comprising senior representatives of the 
IARCSC, the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the President and other ministries as required, to maintain 
focus on results, good communications and a consolidated view of the program and to discuss and 
recommend any necessary policy and regulatory improvements.  Coordination of activities under the 
project would be the responsibility of the Program Coordination Department of the IARCSC. 
 
The World Bank will supervise Grant implementation through the World Bank Office in Kabul and 
through Washington-based staff. 
 
7. Sustainability 
Page  4
The project is focusing on implementing co
re elements of the government’s civil service reform strategy, 
within a wider Public Administration Reform framework that is being agreed between government and 
donors. The government’s CSR strategy focuses on:  continued organizational reforms to ensure structure 
is aligned to function; introduction of modern human resource management systems including a simple 
but more professional pay and grade reform; and improved monitoring and oversight of the broader PAR 
program.  Although not sufficient, these reforms will provide the basis for more sector specific 
institutional reforms that will be needed in line ministries, over time, to improve service delivery.   
 
As a result of activities under component 1, ministries or agencies would have developed a hospitable 
organizational environment for absorbing specialist functional and sector-specific development 
assistance. Specifically, the re-organization of human resources management departments would permit 
the ministry to utilize assistance for improving personnel management (such as provided through 
Component 2 of the project) more effectively. Similarly, attention to restructuring financial management 
units would facilitate using assistance to be provided by the Ministry of Finance in reforming public 
financial management operations. With a reorganized and streamlined group of “common functions” 
simultaneously with additional re-organization of broad sectoral departments (directorates and above) 
assistance to technical and service delivery departments that focus on specific service delivery would be 
more efficiently absorbed through using “government systems” rather than 
ad
hoc
or
donor-driven 
arrangements. 
 
As a result of component 2, ministries should be better placed to manage their human resources in a more 
sustainable manner.  The introduction of a new pay and grading reform is an essential element in this 
regard, providing the mechanism through which ministries can recruit and retain qualified staff and begin 
the process of phasing out unsustainable donor salary top-ups of salaries and ad hoc staffing 
supplementation schemes.  The reform has been carefully costed by the Government but close oversight 
will be needed to ensure that the process proceeds within these agreed fiscal parameters.   
 
Introducing these new reforms will require continuous oversight and advocacy. The PAR Steering 
Committee provides a forum for this purpose, with an additional mandate to advise the Cabinet on 
policies that would support the changes.  The project will strengthen reporting and monitoring to these 
bodies.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
There are a number of lessons learned from the early civil service reform efforts which have been or are 
being addressed. 
 
i. 
Weak oversight of public administration reforms
:
Disbanding the
 
Ministerial Advisory Committee 
(MAC) on PAR in August 2005 led to weak oversight of PAR reforms.  Even before this, oversight of 
proposals under PRR was weak, given the lack of effective monitoring. This became more 
problematic as PRR reforms were extended to the whole of ministries in a short period of time.  
 
ii. 
The need for a more comprehensive and rigorous approach.
 
As a result of a lack of time, 
insufficient internal capacity and insufficient technical assistance, PRR proposals lacked proper 
strategic analysis of key missions and functions of ministries particularly in relation to their overall 
service delivery objectives.  There was little effort made to address opportunities for improvements in 
business processes or to integrate subnational units of administration into the reform process.  
Proposals did not specify any monitorable indicators – either of process or outcomes - and as a result 
little monitoring was undertaken.  In addition, a number of supporting policies and procedures were 
not fully developed, such as policies on how to deal with staff not qualified for positions under 
restructured organizations.   
 
Page  5
iii. 
Weak IARCSC capacity. 
The capacity of the IARCSC to manage and facilitate the implementation of 
public administration reforms has increased since its establishment in June 2003, but remains very 
weak.  In particular its capacity to provide strategic oversight, coordinate and monitor the PAR 
program and to take and implement corrective measures in a timely manner needs to be improved.  
The lack of a meaningful communications campaign to build broad public and political support 
undermined ownership.   
 
iv. 
Technical assistance 
–
too little too late.
 Technical assistance requirements for implementing the 
rollout of reforms to line ministries 
–
as well as ensuring strong central oversight – was inadequate, 
poorly timed and badly coordinated  In many cases, technical inputs were short term in nature – 
leading to a loss of momentum in this weak institutional capacity environment.   
 
v. 
Need for stronger leadership of reform process in ministries:
 
Once proposals were prepared most 
ministries lacked the capability or resources to actually implement reforms. Ministries did not have 
meaningful HR units able to develop and implement recruitment plans.  Only those with significant 
support from donors were able to put plans into action. Bottlenecks in the merit based appointments 
process led to a wide gap between the numbers of appointments made under PRR versus the number 
of approved positions.   
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[x] 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents
 
Interim –Afghan National Development Strategy and especially chapter 5.3 Governance, Rule of Law and 
Human Rights 
Civil Service Law 
Government of Afghanistan's Draft PAR Strategy 
IARCSC's PAR Strategy presentation to Government and development partners 
IARCSC's Training Policy 
World Bank Afghanistan PAR Project Concept Note 
World Bank Emergency Public Administration Project (EPAP) II Technical Annex 
World Bank Mid-term Review of EPAP II 
Independent Evaluation of PRR, January 2006 
World Bank Programmatic Support for Institution Building II 
World Bank:  Concept Note for a Study on Public Administration in Afghanistan:  Accelerating Reforms 
to Improve Service Delivery.  September, 2006 
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
World Bank: A Stocktake and Action Plan for Civil Service Reform in Afghanistan. October, 2006 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Anne Tully  
Title: Sr. Operations Officer, SASPR 
Tel: (202) 473-1695 
Fax:  
Email: atully@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.orgWeb: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
