Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/26/2007 
Report No.:  AC1925
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Afghanistan 
Project ID:  P097030 
Project Name:  CIVIL SERVICE REFORM PROJECT 
Task Team Leader:  Anne Tully 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 1, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: May 29, 2007 
Managing Unit:  SASPR 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (80%);Sub-national government 
administration (20%) 
Theme:  Administrative and civil service reform (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
20.40 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the project is to assist the Afghan authorities in transforming a critical 
proportion of the civil service to one that is performing its core functions with improved 
professionalism; adhering to regularized and transparent rules and procedures; and with 
greater accountability for the use of public resources. In turn this will contribute to the 
government's wider objective of improving the management of public expenditures so as 
to achieve satisfactory and sustainable development outcomes in Afghanistan.  The 
project will focus on supporting the government's civil service reform strategy through 
ensuring government agencies are organized, staffed and monitored in line with service 
delivery objectives.   
 
3. Project Description 
In support of this objective, the project is comprised of three components.  
 
Component One: Implementation of Organizational Reforms within core ministries 
($8.4m)  
 
Building on the experiences under the Priority Reform and Restructuring program 
(PRR), the project will provide support to selected ministries as they take charge of their 
Page  2
own reorganization efforts in a post-PRR environment.  The project would make 
available to selected ministries a small team of international and national advisers who 
would assist the ministry with ensuring structures and staffing plans having been 
reorganized in line with agreed functions and service delivery goals. This will build upon 
PRR exercises already undertaken by those ministries, but will approach this from a 
service delivery angle and involve the whole ministry including its sub-national units. 
The priority focus of organizational restructuring will be on common function 
departments (Finance and Human Resources).  
 
Component 2: Implementation of Human Resource Management Policies($8.7m)  
 
This component will support the institutionalization of a modern and professional 
human resource management system so that by the end of the Compact period a critical 
mass of the civil service will be managed, predictably and consistently, according to 
updated civil service management rules and procedures. This will have resulted from 
implementing a modern grading structure and pay levels; merit-based appointments and 
vetting procedures undertaken for civil service positions at all levels of government, 
including central government (Compact Benchmark 2.1.4); annual performance-based 
reviews undertaken for all senior staff (Compact Benchmark 2.1.4,) and training in new 
HR procedures conducted for more than 1000 HR staff in line ministries.  
 
Component 3: PAR Oversight($3.3m)  
 
This component will reinforce IARCSC in executing its broad mandate to (i) direct and 
coordinate the Government?s program in public administration reform, (ii) coordinate 
donor assistance around priorities and (iii) conduct the monitoring and outreach required 
to support the PAR Steering Committee and Cabinet Subcommittee on PAR and also to 
reach out to a wider constituencies.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Not applicable   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Not applicable   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not applicable   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable   
Page  4
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Anne Tully 
03/05/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
03/26/2007 
Comments:  This project is transferred to SASPR for safeguards oversight. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ijaz Nabi 
03/26/2007 
Comments:  Grateful your approval of ISDS prior to submission to infoshop. 
