Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H297-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Civil Service Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 17, 2007 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H297-AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 17, 2007, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF AFGHANISTAN (the “Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows:   
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen million, five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 13,500,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Recipient’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Finance. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through IARCSC in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister for Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Pashtunistan Watt 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN  
 
By 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is
 to assist the Recipient’s service delivery ministries 
in performing core functions to an acceptable level with greater accountability for the use 
of public resources through reorganization of core ministries and management of the civil 
service in accordance with clear rules and procedures.    
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Organizational Reforms within Participating Line Ministries
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services to support the efforts of Participating 
Line Ministries to improve service delivery against identified benchmarks 
through organizational restructuring including, amongst other things: (i) 
preparing three-year strategic programs for Participating Line Ministries; (ii) 
completing essential revisions of organizational reforms that define functions, 
structure, staffing requirements and job descriptions; (iii) recruiting staff 
corresponding to the new structure, in line with enhanced human resource 
policies; (iv) identifying funding gaps in the Participating Line Ministry’s 
strategic plan; and (iv) producing annual performance reports for the Recipient’s 
Cabinet and Parliament. 
 
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services to strengthen the capacity of IARCSC to 
facilitate and coordinate reforms across the Participating Line Ministries 
including through developing common re-organization templates and best 
practice guidance for other ministries.   
 
Part 2
:
Implementation of Human Resource Management Reforms 
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to qualified staff in 
Participating Line Ministries in revised human resource management policies and 
procedures including, amongst other things: (i) completing remaining regulations 
and procedures under the Civil Service Law and integrating them into a human 
resource management manual; (ii) implementation of the new regulations and 
procedures outlined in the human resource operations manual including training 
and outreach to human resource departments; and (iii) finalizing a pensions 
reform policy.  
 
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services aimed at strengthening procedures of the 
IARCSC Civil Service Appointments Board and the IARCSC Civil Service 
Appeals Board in, among other things: (i) merit-based recruitment of senior 
positions in accordance with publicly agreed standards and targets; (ii) 
monitoring of junior-level appointments; and (iii) effective conduct of appeals. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
Provision of technical and advisory services for implementation of the 
Recipient’s Pay and Grade Policy reforms including, amongst other things: (i) 
undertaking a sustained communications plan to build understanding of the 
reform purpose and process; (ii) re-grading senior management positions in line 
with the new grade structure; (iii) developing procedures and guidance for re-
grading and re-appointing lower level positions; and (iv) oversight, quality 
control and monitoring of the process. 
 
Part 3
:
Oversight of PAR Program
(a) 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to strengthen the capacity of 
the Program Coordination Department within the IARCSC to, amongst other 
things: (i) coordinate donor support and relations under the PAR Program; (ii) 
coordinate technical assistance providers; (iii) identify and resolve 
implementation bottlenecks; and (iv) implement the procurement and financial 
management aspects of the Project.  
 
(b) 
Provision of technical advisory services to the Administration Reform Secretariat 
of the IARCSC to, amongst other things, monitor and evaluate progress under the 
PAR program, develop policy and implement communications strategies.  
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
(a)  
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the overall management, 
coordination and supervision of the Project in IARCSC. 
 
(b)  
The Recipient shall maintain IARCSC with functions, staffing, and 
resources satisfactory and acceptable to the Association. IARCSC shall 
be responsible for, amongst other things: (i) overall policy guidance and 
planning, coordination and monitoring of the Project; (ii) financial 
management, procurement, disbursement and administrative 
management processes under the Project; (iii) reviewing and 
recommending for approval to the PAR Steering Committee, 
applications by Participating Line Ministries for support under the 
Project; and (iv) overall planning, coordination and monitoring of the 
PAR program including coordination of donors and communicating with 
public and stakeholders. In carrying out its functions under the Project, 
IARCSC shall work closely with Participating Line Ministries. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain a PAR Steering Committee comprised of, amongst 
others, senior representatives of IARCSC, the Ministry of Finance and the Office 
of the President. The PAR Steering Committee shall be responsible for, amongst 
other things: (i) Project implementation oversight; (ii) recommendation of policy 
and regulatory improvements; and (iii) approving applications by Participating 
Line Ministries for support under the Project. 
 
3. 
For purposes of implementation of Part 1 of the Project, IARCSC shall enter into 
an agreement in form and with substance satisfactory to the Association, with 
each Participating Line Ministry, setting out the following: 
 
(a) 
the respective responsibilities of, and expected outcomes of assistance 
provided to each Participating Line Ministry under Part 1 of the Project;  
 
(b)  
the amount of resources and level of support available to each 
Participating Line Ministry from IARCSC under the Project to enable the 
Participating Line Ministry implement its portion of Part 1 of the Project;  
 
(c) 
that each Participating Line Ministry shall promptly do all acts and 
things, and take all actions necessary to enable such Participating Line 
Ministry to carry out its portion of Part 1 of the Project; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
that each Participating Line Ministry shall carry out its respective portion 
of Part 1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines. 
4. 
IARCSC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual 
and the Financial Management Manual, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operations 
Manual and the Financial Management Manual if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
The number of service delivery ministries that are reporting on 
their achievement of sectoral objectives and their use of 
resources for that purpose. 
(ii) 
Proportion of civil service appointments based on merit, and the 
rigor of the merit-based appointments process. 
(iii) 
Consistency of application of the Civil Service Law and 
regulations to the management of civil servants. 
(iv) 
The extent to which IARCSC is coordinating donor support for 
civil service reform, and its monitoring and reporting of the 
approved civil service reform implementation plan. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project 
Report not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods and services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting  
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be subject to the following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
do
cuments. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation 
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: 
(A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified 
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-bidding 
shall
 not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, cons
ultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Single-Source Selection 
(c)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  (a) 
each contract for goods procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding regardless of value; (b) each contract for goods procured on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; (c) each contract for goods and services procured on the basis of Direct 
Contracting  regardless of value; (d) each contract for services procured on the 
basis of  National Competitive Bidding regardless of value; (e) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (f) each contract for consultants’ services procured on the 
basis of Single-Source Selection regardless of value. In addition, the following 
prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole source 
basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more: (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference 
and conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded 
only after the Association’s approval shall have been given; and (iii) the 
provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply to the contract.   
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, Consultants’ 
services and  Training 
for Parts 1, 2(a), 2(b) 
and 3 of the Project 
 
11,000,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods, Consultants’ 
services and  Training 
for Part 2(c) of the 
Project 
 
2,500,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
13,500,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
(b) 
under Category 2, for purposes of Part 2(c) of the Project, until the 
Association has received evidence that the Recipient has adopted a Pay 
and Grade Policy, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
IARCSC shall, by no later than August 31, 2007 engage the services of a 
financial management specialist under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association to be responsible for overall financial management of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall, by no later than August 31, 2007 prepare and adopt the 
Operations Manual and Financial Management Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Administrative Reform Secretariat” means the unit in IARCSC responsible for 
monitoring the implementation of the PAR, established and operating in 
accordance with the Civil Service Law.  
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Civil Service Law” means the Recipient’s Civil Service Law, No. 861 dated 
September 11, 2005, as amended from time to time. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
6. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual 
setting out the financial management arrangements for the Project, to be prepared 
by the Recipient, as referred to in Section V.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the Association. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“IARCSC Civil Service Appeals Board” means the IARCSC Appeals Board 
operating pursuant to the Civil Service Law. 
9. 
“IARCSC Civil Service Appointments Board” means the IARCSC Appointments 
Board operating pursuant to the Civil Service Law. 
10. 
“IARCSC” means the Recipient’s Independent Administrative Reform and Civil 
Service Commission established and operating under the Civil Service Law,  
No. 861 dated September 11, 2005, as amended from time to time. 
11. 
“Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual to be prepared and adopted 
in a form and substance satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, which 
includes guidelines and procedures for the operational and administrative 
management of the Project, including any updates made from time to time with 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
the Association’s approval as referred to in Section V.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the 
Association. 
12. 
 “PAR” means the Recipient’s Public Administrative Reform program. 
13. 
“Participating Line Ministries” means ministries of the Recipient which are 
taking part in the implementation of the Project in accordance with the 
Operations Manual. 
14. 
“Pay and Grade Policy” means the Recipients Pay and Grade Policy to be 
approved and furnished to the Association for purposes of Part 2(c) of the 
Project. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October, 2006. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 2, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
17. 
“Program Coordination Department” means the Program Coordination 
Department of IARCSC.  
18. 
“PAR Steering Committee” means the steering committee of the Recipient’s 
Public Administrative Reform program. 
 
