Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056925-CM 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral and Land Management Promotion Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated September 1, 2006 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056925-CM 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 1, 2006, between THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of 
the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Recipient a letter dated January 14, 2004 
describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed, 
inter alia, 
to support the 
implementation of the Recipient
’s rural development strategy (the Program) and declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global environment 
and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development; 
(C) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which forms part of the Program, has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2; 
and 
(E) 
the Recipient has obtained from the International Development Association (the 
Association) financing towards the Program pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined), in an aggregate principal equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,600,000) (the “IDA Credit”); 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  3
-
2-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
S
ection 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) and (21), 
2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f) and  5.01 (a) thereof, means the Bank acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3-
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph  (o) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”; and 
(vii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a Community-Based Organization (as hereinafter defined) or 
a
Commune (as hereinafter defined) in a Project Target Zone (as hereinafter defined), which has 
met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined), 
and the requirements of paragraph B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and, as a result, has 
received or is entitled to receive a Micro-project Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying 
out of a Micro-project (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“CFA Francs” or “CFAF” means 
Franc de la Communaut
é
Financière en Afrique
,
the currency of the Recipient; 
(c) 
“
Commune
”
means a decentralized local government entity established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient (Law Nr. 2004/018 dated July 22, 2004, setting up rules 
applicable to communes and any amendment thereto); 
(d) 
“Community Based Organization” means a community based organization 
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient; 
(e) 
“Communal Decision Committee” (
Comité Paritaire d’Approbation et de 
Supervision de niveau communal
)
means each of the Recipient
’s Decision Committee established 
Page  5
-
4-
pursuant to the Project Implementation Arrêté (as hereinafter defined), and operating at the 
Commune level in the Project Area; 
(f) 
“Communal Development Plan” means the development plan to be prepared by 
Communes and approved by the Provincial Decision Committee (as hereinafter defined) pursuant 
to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(g) 
“Conflict Resolution Commissions” (
Commission Consultative de Règlement des 
Conflits Agro-Pastoraux
)
means the commissions established at the prefectoral level in 
accordance with the Decree No. 78/263 dated September 03, 1978;  
(h) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement No. 3876-CM dated July 
8,  2004 between the Recipient and the Association for the Community Development Program 
Support Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement; 
(i) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and consultants’ 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the document, 
adopted by the Recipient on June 19, 2003, consisting of a framework outlining the modalities for 
social and environmental screening of Micro-projects and rules and procedures for the 
preparation and implementation of social and environmental assessments to be complied with, as 
the case may be, prior to carrying out a Micro-project, as the same may be amended with the 
Bank prior approval; 
(l) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m) “FEICOM” means the 
Fonds Spécial d’Equipement et d’Intervention 
Intercommunale
 established and operating under the laws of the Borrower (Law Nr.74/23 dated 
December 5, 1974, relating to communal organization and any amendment thereto); 
(n) 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the document adopted by the 
Recipient on June, 19, 2003, defining specific measures to be implemented for Baka, Kola and 
Aka minorities in order to protect them and to ensure that members of said minorities be granted 
equal legal, financial and organizational opportunities under the Program; 
(o) 
“Inter Ministerial Committee for the Environment” (
Comité Inter-ministériel de 
l’Environnement
)
means the Committee established pursuant to Decree 2001/718 dated 
September 3, 2001; 
Page  6
-
5-
(p) 
“Landscape Use and Management Plans” means the plans to be established at the 
commune level to review the status of land use and propose measures in support of sustainable 
land management; 
(q) “Land 
Tenure 
Commissions” 
(
Commissions Consultatives Fonc
ières
)
means the 
commissions established at the prefectoral level in accordance with Article 16 of Ordonnance 74-
1
dated July 06, 1974, and further defined under Law No. 19 dated November 26, 1983;  
(r) 
“Local Development Plan” means the development plan to be prepared by CBO 
within the Commune and approved by the Communal Decision Committee pursuant to the 
Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(s) 
“Micro-project” means a specific activity to be carried out in the Project Target 
Zone and financed, or proposed to be financed through a Micro-project Grant under Part A of the 
Project; 
(t) 
“Micro-project Grant” means a grant by the Recipient made, or proposed to be 
made, by a PPU to finance a Micro-project under Part A of the Project; 
(u) 
“Micro-Project Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out and financing a Micro-project; 
(v) 
“Micro-project Management Committee” means the committee to be established by 
Beneficiaries for the purposes of managing, monitoring and supervising its Micro-project; and 
(w) “MINADER” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development; 
(x) 
“MINAS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Social Affairs; 
(y) 
“MINATD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Territorial Administration and 
Decentralization; 
(z) 
“MINFOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Forest and Fauna; 
(aa) 
“MINEP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection;  
(bb)  “MINEPIA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal 
Industries; 
(cc) 
“MINDAF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Domain and Land Tenure; 
(dd) 
“MINRESI” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Scientific Research and Innovation;  
Page  7
-
6-
(ee) 
“MINPLAPDAT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning, Development 
Programming and Regional Development; 
(ff) 
“MINEFI” means the Recipient’s Ministry Economy and Finance; 
(gg) 
“MINTP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Works; 
(hh) 
“NCU” means the National Coordination Unit (
Cellule Nationale de Coordination
)
established and operating pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(ii) 
“National Commission for Environment and Sustainable 
Development” (
Commission Nationale Consultative 
pour l’Environnement et le Développement 
Durable
)
means the commission established pursuant to Decree 94/259 dated May 31, 1994; 
(jj) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated March 20, 
2006 covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall 
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month period (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(kk)  “Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual” means the manual 
outlining the administrative, financial and accounting arrangements for the implementation of the 
Project, referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be updated pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended by agreement of the Parties 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Administrative, Financial 
and Accounting Manual; 
(ll)  “Project Area” means the Recipient’s following provinces: 
Province de 
l’Adamaoua
 
Province du Centre
,
Province de l’Ouest
,
and 
Province du Nord
;
(mm) 
“Project Implementation 
Arrêté
”
means the Recipient’s 
arrêté
 No. 002/PM dated 
January 9, 2004, “
Portant organisation du cadre institutionnel d’exécution du Programme 
National de Développement Participatif
”; 
(nn)  “Project Implementation Manual” means the manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
the 
institutional, environmental and social, disbursement and procurement arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
to be updated pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended by 
agreement of the Parties from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(oo)  “Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual” means the manual outlining the 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement and to be updated pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same 
Page  8
-
7-
may be amended by agreement of the Parties from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual; 
(pp) 
“Project Target Zone” means the geographical zones within the Project Area where 
the Project will be implemented, as established pursuant to criteria defined in the Project 
Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
(qq) “PPU” means each of the Provincial Project Units (
Cellule Provinciale du 
Programme
)
established at the provincial level pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 and 
operating in the Project Area; 
(rr) 
“Provincial Decision Committee” (
Comité Paritaire d’Approbation et de 
Supervision de niveau Provincial
)
means each of the Recipient
’s Decision Committee established 
at the province level pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
,
and operating  in the Project 
Area; 
(ss) 
“SC” means the Steering Committee for the Project established and operating 
pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Arrêté
,
and referred to in paragraphs A.2 and A.4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(tt) 
“Second Generation Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement; 
(uu) 
“SLM” means sustainable land management; 
(vv)  “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
(ww) “Technical Support Agency” means, any of the decentralized technical public 
services of the Recipient, professional associations, research institutions or any other entity as 
defined in the PIM, providing assistance to the Beneficiaries for: (i) the preparation of Local or 
Communal Development Plans, as the case may be; and (ii) the identification, appraisal,, 
preparation and supervision of Micro-projects. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount 
equal to six million Dollars ($ 6,000,000). 
Page  9
-
8-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in CFA 
Francs one separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Upon completion of a financial management system review, to be found 
satisfactory by the Association, to evaluate the financial management system in place in each 
PPU, the Recipient may additionally open and maintain in CFA Francs, for the benefit of each 
PPU, one Second Generation Special Account of the Special Account, each in a commercial bank 
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and or attachment. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 1, 2011, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative and 
financial practices and with due regard to ecological, environmental and social factors, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Page  10
-
9-
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the 
date of the preceding
 Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by 
the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by 
the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
Page  11
-
10-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that statements of expenditure are included in the audit for each 
fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that:  
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it impossible that the Project or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out; 
Page  12
-
11-
(b) 
the Project Implementation 
Arrêté,
 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project; and 
(c) 
the IDA Credit has been suspended or cancelled for any reason whatsoever. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
(a) 
the Recipient has updated the financial and accounting and technical monitoring 
and evaluation system within NCU and PPUs in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
the Recipient has updated the Project Accounting Financial and Administrative 
Manual, the Project Implementation Manual and the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c) 
the Recipient has recruited external auditors satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Economy and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12-
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Yaounde 
Republic of Cameroon 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
MINEFI 
   (237) 
223 
3717 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Yaounde, 
Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By: 
 
/s/ Abah Abah Polycarpe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
(as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
By:  
/s/ 
Markus 
Repnik 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
(Expressed in US Dollars) 
 
%
of
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1) Goods, equipment and 
vehicles 
 
110,000
 
100%
(2) 
Consultants’ services and 
audits 
 
750,000
 
100%
(3) Micro Projects under Part 
A
3,600,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(4) Operating Costs 
 
250,000
 
100%
(5) Training 
 
1,000,000
 
100%
(6) Unallocated 
290,000
 
__________
 
TOTAL
 
6,000,000
=========
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicles 
operation and maintenance, communication costs, rental expenses, utilities expenses, 
consumables, transport, travel and accommodation, per diem, supervision costs and salaries of 
local support staff; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the expenses incurred on per diem, travel, purchase of 
training materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops, seminars and study tours. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:  
Page  16
-
15-
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b) 
a Micro-project Grant under Category (3) unless the Micro-project Grant has 
been made in accordance with the criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods, 
equipment and vehicles costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of 
individual consultants costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  17
-
16-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to enable communities to contribute to combating land 
degradation in critical areas through the adoption of sustainable land management best practices 
and the development of adequate capacity, tools and mechanisms by communities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
Part A: Enhancing the Integration of Sustainable Land Management into Local Development
Activities
Provision of Micro Grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying out of Micro Projects to 
support the integration of SLM practices, including in particular activities to reduce soil erosion, 
improve soil fertility, improve water resources management, improve vegetative cover, improve 
the management of pastoral resources and preserve biodiversity. 
Part B:  Institutional Support to Sustainable Land Management
1. 
Institutional support to land reform process 
(a) 
Strengthening institutional coordination capacity among public stakeholders in 
particular the National Commission for Environment and Local Development and the Inter 
Ministerial Committee for the Environment, all through workshops, training, study tours and 
consulting services; and 
(b) 
Supporting the institutional and legal land reform process, through: (i) 
preparation and implementation of Landscape Use and Management  Plans in Project Target 
Zones to improve dialogue between local authorities and communities, farmers and herders and 
other resources users; and (ii) the review and submission for approval of legal text pertaining to 
land tenure, all through the provision of goods, consulting services and training. 
2. 
Strengthening capacity at local level 
(a) Strengthening 
local 
stakeholders
’
capacities to integrate SLM practices in local 
development, through: (i) sensitization programs and training of Beneficiaries, Technical Support 
Agencies, Communal Decision Committee and Provincial Decision Committee, as well as public 
servants involved in Project implementation; (ii) land-use planning diagnostics and targeted 
environmental studies; (iii) the preparation of methodological tools for the preparation of 
Landscape Use and Management Plans, all through the provision consulting services and training 
and study tours; and 
Page  18
-
17-
(b) 
Promoting conflict resolution mechanisms among farmers, herders, other users of 
natural resources and traditional authorities, by strengthening the capacities of the Land Tenure 
Commissions and the Conflict Resolution Commissions, all through the provision of consulting 
services and training.  
Part C.  Project management and coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and communication
1. 
Supporting: Project implementation and Project coordination (including with other 
activities and stakeholders in the field of local development); environmental management, 
financial and fiduciary management, as well as technical audits and financial audits, all through 
technical advisory services and operating costs, training and the acquisition of equipment for 
NCU and PPUs. 
2. 
Strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacities under the Project in particular for: 
monitoring changes on land use and related environmental and social economic impacts; updating 
and implementing the Geographical Information System; the collection, update and consolidation 
of data and regular dissemination of monitoring reports; promoting appropriate monitoring 
instruments at the local level, as well as updating a communication plan, all through the provision 
of goods, consultant services and training. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 1, 2010. 
Page  19
-
18-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 
2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to 
them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies.
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office 
(IAPSO). 
Page  20
-
19-
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
5. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project 
shall be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the clause 3.17 of 
the Procurement Guidelines, and the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement 
for Community-Based Investments dated February 1998, as further detailed in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 
through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20-
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in 
the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source 
basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding, (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, (c) all Direct Contracting for works 
and goods; (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000
 
or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more and (f) all contracts for 
consultant’s services awarded under Single Source Selection procedures. All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  22
-
21-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Project Oversight and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (a) apply 
the criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual and the Project 
Monitoring and Evaluation Manual in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) not 
amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Project Implementation Manual, 
the Project Financial and Accounting Manual and the Project Monitoring and Evaluation 
Manual, or any provision thereof, in a manner which may materially and adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during Project Implementation, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Bank: 
(a) 
the SC with the responsibility for: (i) coordinating ongoing project activities; and 
(ii) mainstreaming  of SLM into government policies; and 
(b) 
NCU, together with PPUs, with the responsibility for coordination and overall 
implementation of the Project. 
3. Annual 
Consultations 
 
The Borrower shall cause NCU and the PPUs to organize annual regional workshops to 
establish annual priorities for local development activities in conformity with the provisions of 
the Project Implementation Manual. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
in compliance with the Project Implementation Arrêté, SC shall define and 
manage the activities under the Project and supervise its implementation, and NCU, in 
collaboration with the PPUs, shall be responsible for the coordination of the Project’s 
implementation; 
(b) 
the qualifications and experience of the staff within NCU and the PPUs, in 
charge directly or indirectly of the implementation of any parts of the Project, shall be satisfactory 
to the Association; 
(c) 
SC, NCU, the PPUs, the Provincial Decision Committees and the Communal 
Decision Committees are established in compliance with the provisions of the Project 
Page  23
-
22-
Implementation Arrêté and the SC, NCU and PPUs shall be maintained with functions and 
composition satisfactory to the Association; and 
(d) 
the relevant Ministries, Agencies and authorities (in particular MINAGRI; 
MINEPIA, MINAS; MINATD; MINFOF; MINEP; MINDAF; MINRESI; MINPLAPDAT; 
MINFIB; MINTP; and FEICOM), shall collaborate with NCU, the PPUs, the Provincial Decision 
Committees and the Communal Decision Committees in compliance with the provisions of the 
Project Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, 
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework, and the Indigenous People Development Plan; 
(e) 
Local Development Plans, Communal Development Plans and Landscape Use 
and Management Plans are prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual.  
B. Micro-projects 
and 
Micro-project 
Grants
1. 
No Micro-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless 
the relevant Provincial Decision Committees and the Communal Decision Committees, as the 
case may be, has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the 
guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, that the Micro-project satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, 
which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following:
(
a) 
the Micro-project shall be initiated by a Beneficiary and is to be implemented in 
a
Project Target Zone; 
(b) 
the Micro-project shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in Part A of 
the Project; provided that the Micro-project shall not be for any of the types of activities indicated 
in the negative list of activities set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(c) 
there is no other source of financing proposing to finance the same activities, it 
being understood that co-financing is not excluded; 
(d) 
the Micro-project is consistent with applicable national standards and the Local 
Development Plan or Communal Development Plan, as the case may be; 
(e) 
the legal status of the land on which the Micro-project is to be carried out has 
been identified; 
(f) 
the Micro-project shall be economically, financially, environmentally, socially, 
institutionally and technically sound in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Indigenous People Development Plan; 
Page  24
-
23-
(g) 
an analysis of the social and environmental impacts of the Micro-project shall 
have been undertaken in compliance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Indigenous People Development Plan, and, if applicable, an 
environmental impact assessment shall have been carried out and any other environmental and 
social requirements, including mitigation, and rehabilitation measures, provided under the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Indigenous People Development 
Plan, shall have been complied with, all  in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(h) 
adequate arrangements shall be in place for the financing of maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent costs related to the Micro-project; 
(i) 
the Micro-project shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Recipient; 
(j) 
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 10 % of the estimated costs of the Micro-
project with at least 2% in the form of financial contribution and the remaining in the form of 
materials, labor or other services, as specified in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(k) 
no Micro-project Grant shall be in excess of CFAF four million (4,000,000) for a 
Community Based Organizations Micro-project and CFAF twenty million (20,000,000) for a 
Commune Micro-project; and 
(l) 
the Beneficiary shall have established a Micro-project Management Committee, 
or entered into a maintenance agreement and established appropriate mechanisms for further 
maintenance and financing of the Micro-project.  
2. 
Applications for Community Based Organizations Micro-project Grants to finance 
Micro-projects shall:  
 
(a) 
be submitted by the Community Based Organizations to the relevant Communal 
Decision Committees, for its approval; and   
 
(b) 
after approval by the Communal Decision Committee, be referred by said 
Communal Decision Committee for financing to the relevant PPU. 
3. 
Without limitation to other provisions of this Schedule, for Community Based 
Organizations infrastructure Micro-projects, the Commune on the territory of which the 
infrastructure is located shall own the infrastructure. The Commune and the relevant Community-
Based-Organization shall manage the Micro-project under conditions set up in an agreement to be 
entered between them, as defined in the Project Implementation Manual and in the Project 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual. 
4. 
Applications for Commune Micro-project Grants to finance Micro-projects shall:   
Page  25
-
24-
(a) 
be submitted by the Commune to the relevant Provincial Decision Committees for its 
approval; and 
(b) 
after approval by the Provincial Decision Committee, be referred by said Provincial 
Decision Committee for financing to the relevant PPU. 
5. 
The composition of each Micro-project Management Committee shall be as indicated in 
the Project Implementation Manual. The Technical Support Agencies shall meet the criteria 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual. 
6. 
Micro-projects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be concluded 
between the Recipient and the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which, inter alia, shall include the following: 
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis; 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Micro-project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the 
Indigenous People Development Plan, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound environmental, social, institutional, technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Micro-project; 
(c) 
where applicable, the obligation to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Recipient and the Bank, any environmental and social mitigation measures in accordance with the 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Indigenous People 
Development Plan; 
(d) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Micro-project Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-project; 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods, works, sites and construction included in the Micro-project, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(f) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or the Bank 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
Micro-project; and 
(g) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the  Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Micro-project Grant for the Micro-project upon failure by the Beneficiary 
to perform any of its obligations under the Micro-project Grant Agreement. 
Page  26
-
25-
7. 
Section 4.03. The Recipient shall have a technical audit of Micro Projects carried out 
annually, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association by independent technical 
auditors acceptable to the Association and furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than three months after the end of the year a report prepared by said technical 
auditors on said technical audit. 
C. 
Reports and Mid-Term Reviews
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, or at any other 
later date agreed upon by the Parties, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, not later than two weeks after submission of the report 
referred to in paragraph C.1 (b) above, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph C.1 (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
2. Midterm 
Review 
 
(a) 
On or about twenty four months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall carry 
out jointly with the Bank, SC, NCU, the PPUs , a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
(ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause NCU to prepare and, at least four weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, furnish to the Bank a separate report describing the status of implementation of 
each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally. 
Page  27
-
26-
(c) 
The Recipient shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare 
and submit to the Bank an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for the further implementation 
of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement 
such action program. The Bank shall provide its comments on said report within 15 days from its 
presentation to the Recipient. 
Page  28
-
27-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of CFAF 300,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Page  29
-
28-
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Page  30
-
29-
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
7. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each 
Second Generation Special Account funds to assist each PPU. Such withdrawals and deposits 
shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each PPU in the manner contemplated in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, provided that, at no time, shall the Borrower cause the amount held in any Second 
Generation Special Account to exceed CFAF 50,000,000. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal from any Second Generation Special Account must be justified 
to the Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
required pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule.  
(c) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any Second Generation Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant PPU shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association or the Borrower, refund to the Special Account such outstanding amount. 
Page  31
-
30-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1. 
by the Midterm Review, at least 25,000 ha are under SLM practices in Project Target 
Zones; 
2. 
by the Midterm Review, at least 20 communal Micro-projects and 60 community Micro-
projects have been approved and are being implemented; 
3. 
by the Midterm Review, at least 2,000 ha of protected area boundaries, buffer zones, and 
riparian zones have been rehabilitated through SLM practices in the Project Target 
Zones; 
4. 
by the Midterm Review, at least 2 Landscape Use and Management Plans have been 
prepared and implemented at the communal level; 
5. 
by the Midterm Review, 3 conflict resolution frameworks are operational at the 
communal level, through Land Tenure Land Tenure Commissions and the Conflict 
Resolution Commissions; 
6. 
by the Project completion, at least 50,000 ha are under SLM practices in the Project 
Target Zones; 
7. 
by the Project completion, the land fertility as measured through: (i) pH-H2O (ii) 
available P2O5; (iii) Exchangeable Al3+ rate;  (iv) organic carbon rate and  (v) erosion 
rate, has increased; 
8. 
by the Project completion, at least 60 communal Micro-projects and 150 community 
Micro-projects have been approved and are being implemented; 
9. 
by the Project completion, at least 10 SLM best practices and lessons have been 
identified in a participatory manner, and are regularly disseminated;  
10. 
by the Project completion, at least 3 community forests are being managed in a 
sustainable manner in the Project Target Zones; 
11. 
by the Project completion, at least 5,000 ha of protected area boundaries, buffer zones 
and riparian zones have been rehabilitated through SLM practices in the Project Target 
Zones; 
Page  32
-
31-
12. 
by the Project completion, the National Commission for Environment and Sustainable 
Development and the Inter Ministerial Committee for the Environment are functional in 
promoting sound SLM policies and strategies; 
13. 
by the Project completion, at least 5 Landscape Use and Management Plans have been 
prepared and are being implemented at the communal level; 
14. 
by the Project completion, at least 10 conflict resolution frameworks are operational at 
the communal level, through Land Tenure Land Tenure Commissions and the Conflict 
Resolution Commissions; 
15. 
by the Project completion, a GIS database on land and natural resources is in place and is 
being used; and 
16. 
by the Project completion, a study has been carried out on the sustainability and legal 
status of Land Use and Management Plans. 
 
