                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank
                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                                ReportNo: 35952-CM




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ON A

                                 PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

            e                INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$6.0MILLION


                                                 TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                                 FORA

           SUSTAINABLE AGRO-PASTORAL AND LANDMANAGEMENT
                               PROMOTION PROJECTUNDER THE
       COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM SUPPORTPROJECT(PAPNDP)




                                             May 18,2006



Environmentally and Socially SustainableDevelopment(AFTS3)
CountryDepartment 07
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange RateEffectiveMarch23,2006)
                          Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                 530 CFA Francs BEAC = US$1

                                   FISCALYEAR
                             January 1     - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD        Agence FranCaise de De'veloppement (French DevelopmentAgency)
AfDB       African Development Bank
APESS      Associationpour la Promotion de I'Elevage au Sahel et en Savane (Associationfor the
           PromotionofLivestock inthe Sahel and Sahel)
APL        Adaptable ProgramLoan
CAADP      ComprehensiveAfrica Agriculture DevelopmentProgram
CAR        CentralAfrican Republic
CAS        CountryAssistance Strategy
CBD        UNConventiononBiologicalDiversity
CBOs       Community-BasedOrganizations
CDC        CommunalDecisionCommittee
CDD        Community DrivenDevelopment
CGIAR      Consultative Group of InternationalAgriculture Research
CIE        Comite'Interministe'rielde 1'Environnement(InterministerialCommittee on Environment)
CNCEDD     CommissionNationale Consultativepour 1'Environnementet le DdveloppementDurable
           (NationalConsultative Commission for the Environmentand Sustainable Development)
CQ         Consultants' Qualifications
dgMarket   Development Gateway Market
DO         DevelopmentObjective
DPGT       De'veloppementPaysannalet Gestiondes Terroirs (Farmer DevelopmentandRuralLand
           Management)
ESA        Eau-Sol-Arbre (Water-Land-Tree)
ESMF       Environmentaland SocialManagementFramework
FA0        FoodandAgriculture Organizationo fthe UnitedNations
FEDPG      ForestandEnvironmentDevelopmentProgram(i.e., new name for FESAC)
FESAC      Forestry andEnvironmentalSector Adjustment Credit
FMR        FinancialMonitoringReports
FSP        Fonds de Solidaritd Prioritaire (Priority Solidarity Funds)
GDP        GrossDomestic Product
GEF        GlobalEnvironmentFacility
GEO        GlobalEnvironmentalObjective
GESEP      GestionSe'curise'edes Espaces Pastoraux (Secure Managemento fPastoralLands)
GIS        Geographic InformationSystem
GNP        GrossNationalProduct
GPN        GeneralProcurementNotice
GTZ        Gesellschaftfur TechnischeZusammenarbeit(German DevelopmentAgency)
IAPSO      UNDP Inter-AgencyProcurement Services Office
IBRD       InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment
ICB        InternationalCompetitiveBidding
ICR        ImplementationCompletionReport
ICRAF      InternationalCenter for ResearchinAgriculture andForestry

                                           1

IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
IFAD      InternationalFundfor Agricultural Development
IITA      InternationalInstitute of Tropical Agriculture
IP        Indigenous Peoples
IPDP      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IRAD      Institut de RechercheAgronomique pour le De'veloppement(Agronomic Research
           Institute for Development)
ISA       InternationalStandards on Auditing
ITK        Indigenous TechnicalKnowledge
JSDF      Japan Social Development Fund
KFW       Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaujbau (Dutch DevelopmentAgency)
LCS        Least-Cost Selection
LG         Local Government
M&E        Monitoringand Evaluation
MEADEN     Mission d'Etude, d'Ame'nagementet de De'veloppementduNord(Study, Planningand
           Development ofthe North)
MIS        Management Information System
MINADER    Ministdre de 1'Agriculture et du De'veloppementRural (Ministryof Agriculture and Rural
           Development)
MINATD     MinistBre de I 'Administration Territoriale et de la Dicentralisation (Ministry of
           Territorial Administration and Decentralization)
MINEF      MinistryofEnvironment andForestry
MINEP      MinistBre de I 'Environnement et de la Protection de la Nature (Ministryof Environment
           andNature Protection)
MINEPIA    MinistBre de I 'Elevage, des P2ches et des IndustriesAnimales (Ministry of Livestock,
           Fisheries and Animal Production)
MINPLAPDAT MinistBre de la Plan$cation, de la Programmation du Dkveloppement et de
           I'Ame'nagementdu Territoire (Ministry ofPlanning, Development Programmingand
           Regional Development)
NAP        NationalAction Plan(to combat land degradation)
NBSAP      National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
NCU        National CoordinationUnit
NEPAD      New Partnership for Africa's Development
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NRM        Natural ResourceManagement
 PAPNDP    Projet d'Appui au ProgrammeNationalde De'veloppementParticipatif(Community
            DevelopmentProgram Support Project)
 PDBBPDC   Projet de De'veloppementduBassin de la Be'noue'(Project to Developthe BCnou6Basin)
 PDC        Provincial Decision Committee
 PDO        Project Development Objective
 PIM        Project ImplementationManual
 PNDP       ProgrammeNationalde De'veloppementParticipatif(Community Development Program
 PNVRA      Support)
            Programme Nationalde Vulgarisation et de RechercheAgricole (National Agricultural
 PRSP       Extensionand ResearchProgram)
            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 RSR        Rural Sector Review
 SA         Special Account
 SCAC       Service de Coopbation et d'Actions Culturelles (Service for Cooperation and Cultural
            Actions)
 SFB        Selection under a FixedBudget
 SLM        Sustainable LandManagement

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

S N V               TheNetherlandsDevelopmentOrganization
SOEs                Statement of Expenditures
SSA                 Sub-SaharanAfrica
TORS                Terms OfReference
UCCAO               Uniondes Coope'rativesde Cafe' Arabica de 1'Ouest(Union ofArabica Coffee
                    Cooperativesofthe West)
UN                  UnitedNations
UNCBD               UnitedNations Conventionon Biological Diversity
UNCCD               UnitedNations Conventionto CombatDesertification
UNDB                UnitedNations DevelopmentBusiness
UNDP                UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
UNEP                UnitedNations Environment Program
UNFCCC              UnitedNations FrameworkConventionon Climate Change




                    Vice President:                   Gobind T. Nankani
                    Country ManagerIDirector:         Ali M.Khadr
                    Sector Manager:                   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
                    Task Team Leader:                 Ousmane Seck




  This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of
  their officialduties.Itscontentsmay not otherwisebedisclosedwithout World Bank authorization.




                                                  ...
                                                  111

                                                 CAMEROON

     SustainableAgro-Pastoraland LandManagementPromotionProject
    underthe CommunityDevelopmentProgramSupportProject(PAPNDP)


                                                  CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                     Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             ...................................................... 1
 1.  Country and sector issues ........................................................................................                1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement..............................................................................                       5
 3. Higher level objectives to whichthe project contributes ........................................                                   8

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      ......................................................................................    9
 1.  Lendinginstrument..................................................................................................               9
 2. Project development andglobal environmental objectives. andkey indicators......9
 3.  Project components................................................................................................                11
 4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design ..............................................                                  18
 5.  Alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection.................................................                                  21

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  .............................................................................................      23
  1. Partnership arrangements......................................................................................                    23
 2. Institutional and implementation arrangements....................................................                                  23
 3. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of outcomes/results........................................                                        25
 4.  Sustainability andReplicability.............................................................................                      26
 5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects ...................................................                               27
 6. Loadcredit conditions andcovenants ...................................................................                             28

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                         ......................................................................................      28
  1. Economic and financial analyses...........................................................................                        28
 2. Technical ...............................................................................................................          29
  3. Fiduciary................................................................................................................ 29
 4. Institutional, legal and policy framework for proper SLMimplementation .........29
  5. Social ..................................................................................................................... 31
  6. Environment ..........................................................................................................            33
  7. Safeguard policies..................................................................................................
                       . .                                                                                                             33
  8. Policy Exceptions andReadiness..........................................................................                          34

                                                             iv

ANNEX 1:COUNTRYAND SECTORORPROGRAMBACKGROUND                                                                                          ............35
ANNEX 2: MAJORRELATEDPROJECTSFINANCEDBY THE BANK AND/OR
OTHER AGENCIES                  ......................................................................................................           39

ANNEX 3: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING                                                                   ..................................     41

ANNEX 4: DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                                    ..................................................       51

ANNEX 5: PROJECTCOSTS                            ......................................................................................          66

ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONAND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 67                                                                                       ..
ANNEX 7: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS                  ........................................................................................................            69

ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS                                                      ....................................................        73

ANNEX 9: ECONOMICANALYSIS                                    ...........................................................................          80

ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARDPOLICYISSUES                                              .............................................................        82

ANNEX 11: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION                                                                      .............................    85

ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTSINTHE PROJECTFILE                                                         ..............................................       86

ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS                                                           ..........................................      87

ANNEX 14: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE                                         ....................................................................         88

ANNEX 15: INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS                                                    ....................................................       90

ANNEX 16: STAP ROSTERTECHNICAL REVIEW                                                        ..............................................       99

ANNEX 17: CAMEROONMAPSONLAND DEGRADATIONAND IBRDNO
33382
    ...............................................................................................................................            .
                                                                                                                                                 107




                                                                     V

                                           CAMEROON

    SUSTAINABLEAGRO-PASTORAL AND LANDMANAGEMENTPROMOTION PROJECT
     UNDERTHE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT(PAPNDP)

                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             AFRICA

                                               AFTS3

Date: May 18,2006                               Team Leader: Ousmane Seck
Country Director: Ali M.Khadr                    Sectors: Agricultural Extension(45%), Irrigation &
Sector ManagerDirector: JosephBaah-Dwomoh Drainage(20%), Other social services (35%)
Project ID: PO73629                             Themes: Participationand civic engagement (P);
Lending Instrument:Specific InvestmentLoan      Rural services and infrastructure(P); Municipal
( S E I                                          governance and institution building(P);
                                                Decentralization(S); Indigenouspeoples(S)
                                                 Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial
                                                Assessment
Global SupplementalID: PO89289                   Team Leader: Ousmane Seck
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan      Sectors: Agricultural extension andresearch (45%);
FocalArea: L-Land degradation                    Other social services (35%); Irrigation and drainage
SupplementFully Blended?: No                     (20%)
                                                 Themes: Land administration andmanagement (P);
                                                 Environmentalpolicies and institutions (S); Other
                                                 environment andnaturalresources management
                                                 (SkWater resourcemanagement (S)

[ 3 Loan   [ ] Credit  [XI Grant    [ ] Guarantee        [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 6.0




Total:                                                 6.00                0.00                 6.00

Borrower:
Ministry ofEconomic Affairs, Cameroon

ResponsibleAgency:




Annual        I       1.0     I         1.5    I       1.5     I         1.5      I           0.5      I
Cumulative    I       1.oo              2.5           4.00               5.5                 6.00
Project implementationperiod: Start September 1,2006   End:March1,2011
Expectedeffectiveness date: September 1,2006

                                                 vi

I    bodies such as Lake Chad and the Gulf o f Guinea.
 Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref: PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
 The project has three maincomponents: (1) enhanced integrationo f SLM into local development; (2)
 institutional support for SLM; and (3) project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and
 communication.
 Component 1 is to co-finance S L M micro-projects, at the request o f beneficiaries (communities and
 communes), within the project's interventionzone.
 Component 2 is to reinforce the institutional fi-amework at the national level, and strengthen the capacities
 o f beneficiaries to better integrate S L M best practices in their local development plans. It also seeks to
 improve the mechanism o f land conflict resolution, among farmers, foresters, herders, other natural
 resource users, and traditional chiefs.
 Component 3 is to ensure proper project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and
 communication.
 Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Ref: PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 The safeguard screeningcategory for the proposedProject is S2 and the environmentalscreening category
 is B. Since it will complement activities under PAPNDP, the Project has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental
 Assessment and OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples due to the potential negative environmental and social
 impacts o f future micro-projects.
 Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany, for:
 Ref: PAD C.7
 Board presentation: May 25,2006
ILoadcredit effectiveness: September 1,2006
 Covenants applicable to project implementation.

                                                       vii

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

1.1.     General Country Background and Prevalence of Land Degradation

The agro-silvopastoral sector is the backbone of the Cameroonian economy. Its activities account for
slightly over half o f GNP and occupy about two-thirds of the working population. At the same time,
poverty is more pronounced in rural areas (55 percent of the total population vs. 86 percent of the rural
population), principally among smallholders who are highly dependent on the land. The incidence of
poverty is highest for households headed by farmers (57 percent) and agricultural wage earners (50
percent).

Land degradation in advanced stages is occurring across many areas o f Cameroon that are highly
dependent on the agro-silvopastoral sector. Ongoing land degradation is a key barrier to maintaining and
increasing the productive capacity o f this sector and to increasing agricultural yields. Food insecurity is
chronic in the Sudano-Sahelian zone as well as in the Western zone, a phenomenon closely intertwined
with unsustainable utilization of the land. Between 1971and 1998, cereal production per capita declined
from 157 kg to 85 kg. Cultivatable arable land covers about 15 percent of total surface area (68,125
square km); yet per capita arable land has fallen precipitously, from 0.86 ha in 1968, to 0.46 ha in 1996.
Insome regions, such as the Extreme North, estimatesplace per capita arable landatjust 0.29 ha per
capita by 2020. Given that increasing landproductivity represents a key element o f any equation to boost
rural sector growth, land degradation is increasingly viewed by local stakeholders as an issue of vital
importance, and seen as both a cause and a consequenceofthe perpetuation of pervasive poverty.

Land degradation in Cameroon is threatening the integrity o f the ecosystems and environmental services
(e.g. niches for above and belowground biodiversity, soil nutrient stocks, carbon sequestration,
hydrological functions, resilience to climate change) upon which Cameroon's globally unique
biodiversity depends. In effect, land degradation results in the loss o f vegetative cover and primary
productivity and thus reduces the carbon sequestration potential o f the vegetation. With reduced
aboveground productivity, there is a corresponding loss o f carbon inputsto the soil. Inaddition to reduced
above and belowground carbon sequestration, land degradation often results in losses o f existing carbon
pools in the soil and the direct loss of important sinks for other greenhouse gases. As vegetative
productivity declines, soil cover is also reduced and the resulting soil erosion negatively impacts soil
biodiversity. Excessive erosion and sedimentation can negatively impact local wetland integrity and
functions, and thus compromise the ability of watershedsto cope with highrainfall events andflooding.

The main causes o f land degradation in Cameroon are: (i)unsustainable agricultural practices and
mounting incidence of soil infertility (especially in the Sudano-Sahelian and Western zones) linked to:
weak capacity for sustainable water and land use planning and implementation; inappropriate crop
intensification, especially under monoculture systems; expansion o f agricultural production to marginal
lands; agronomic practices poorly suitedto local soil and water conditions; and inappropriate agricultural
policies and incentives; (ii)overgrazing and bush fires, resulting in the degradation of vegetative cover
andthe destruction ofmicro-fauna; (iii)  deforestation caused by over-harvesting o f fuel-wood; conversion
of woodland to large-scale crop or livestock production areas; and uncontrolled forest fires, often started
to clear land for farming or to facilitate hunting o f wildlife; (iv) irrational land-use planning, with no
zoning plan in most rural areas, and weak capacity to respond to climatic variability and droughts; (v)
mounting population pressure and erroneous belief in the infinite supply o f land, which creates
environmental degradation inthe highly populated zone o f the highplateau of the Western Province and
the Central Province, where the carrying capacity o f the land has been reached or exceeded; and (vi)
desertification and soil erosion. These root causes o f land degradation are exacerbated when local
populations lack land tenure security and/or land and water use rights. They therefore have little or no

incentive to invest in land management and soil and water conservation practices, tending to focus on
meetingtheir short-term economic needs.

Indeed, mountingpressure upon Cameroon's natural resources coupled with stagnating agro-silvopastoral
productivity has contributed to significant pressure on the country's biodiversity and ecological resources
(most notably in coastal marine, humid tropical forest, and wooded tropical savannah ecosystem zones).
In the Northern and Adamaoua Provinces, which are characterized by fragile ecosystems, land
degradation is increasingly visible and beginning to impact the major hydroelectric reservoir (Lac du
Lagdo) that supplies energy to 3 provinces. Its main causes are high demographic pressure on land and
inappropriate land use and management practices (such as overgrazing and slash-and-burn practices) at
the communal level as well as at the regional level. Many conflicts occur between land users, especially
between farmers and pastoralists. Furthermore, difficult transportation is a significant constraint to
effective input-output markets in the Adamaoua province. It is also characterized by a decrease in land
previously used by herders, as a result of the development to the West o f a natural park (for birds) and to
the North o f a series of national parks, camping areas, and contentious hunting areas, and of politico-
military problems to the East (in the neighboring Central African Republic). The livestock of the
Adamaoua province, estimated at 6 million animals, is increasingly confined to a limited area on the
Adamaoua plateau, giving rise to conflicts over access to pasture and damage to crop lands, overgrazing,
and soil degradation. In the Western Province, deforestation and overgrazing (in the Bamboutos
highlands), intensive and detrimental farming practices, and destruction o f `sacred forests' linkedto high
demographic pressureand conflicts betweenland users represent the main root causes of land degradation
inthe Western region. In the Central Province, unsustainable agricultural techniques cause severe land
degradation in the Central region. Slash-and-burn agriculture is the predominant practice, leading to high
rates o f deforestation and loss in soil fertility. The literature describes processes o f soil nutrientdepletion
and the formation of iron pans and crusts that render the soil unproductive and insome cases, irreversibly
degraded.

1.2.     Country Eligibility, Country Drivenness,and Government Strategy

    a. Country Eligibilityfor World Bank and GEF financing

Cameroon ratified the UNConvention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) in 1997, the UNConvention
on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 1994, and the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) in 1994. It is preparinga National Action Plan under the UNCCD, which will be finalized at
the endo fApril 2006. Ithas also prepared and approved a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
(NBSAP) in 2002. Cameroon is eligible for World Bank and GEF funding.

    b. Country Drivenness

The Government's National Action Plan to implement the UNCCD, and other strategies on land
management. Cameroon ratified the UNConvention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) in 1997; since
then, it has movedon the UNCCD priorities and is drafting aNational Action Plan(NAP) to combat land
degradation. The NAP is expected to be finalized by June 2006. Preparation o f the NAP has led to the
creation of a National Coordination Committee to address land degradation and promote the
implementationof the UNCCD in Cameroon. Investments insustainable land management are planned to
promote synergies between the three main environmental conventions, thereby addressing desertification,
biodiversity conservation, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. The project will interact with the
NAP, and seek to coordinate efforts inits intervention area.

The Government's National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). In fulfillment of the
UNConvention on Biological Diversity (CBD) obligations and in recognition of the need to halt and
reverse the loss of biodiversity and degradation o f ecosystems, the Government o f Cameroon has
elaborated a NBSAP, which targets the following biodiversity-related issues: (i)degradation o f
                                                          2

ecosystems through unsustainable exploitation; (ii)  inadequate financial resources for the motivation and
provision o f incentives to conserve biodiversity; (iii)
                                                       unplanned occupation o f forest land, poorly planned
urban clustering, problems of insecurity, uncontrolled implantation through plantations and other
infrastructure; (iv) weak enforcement o f policy measures, legal and institutional framework to ensure
effective resource management and correct the poor human resources deployment and use; (v) landtenure
and institutional problems through the poor respect of norms (policies) in certain areas, sometimes
leadingto conflicts o f interest among stakeholders such as farmer-gazer conflicts; (vi) population pressure
on biological resources for daily survival, causing unsustainable harvesting of some resources; and (vii)
lack of decentralization in the management of biological resources, compounded by inadequate
environmental and conservation information and sensitization, insufficient participation o f indigenous
people, particularly women in the management process leading to inequitable sharing o f revenues
generated by biological resources among different stakeholders. The proposed project will address a
number ofthese problems.

Cameroon has a functional foundation of policies, legislation, regulations, and partnerships upon
which to build land management and soil conservation programs. The national Law No. 05/12 o f
December 05, 1996, outlines a national framework for environmental and integrated natural resources
management. Despite the existence o f this Law and the creation of an Inter-ministerial Environment
Committee, environmental pressures and biodiversity loss remain acute. In response, the Government
formulated a coherent strategy embodying the AGENDA 21principles adopted inRio de Janeiro in 1992.
The Government has formulated a biodiversity strategy and an associatedaction plan. Implementation of
this action plan will help promote sustainable management of the various ecosystems and thereby
(i) withinternationalconventions,regionalagreements,andsectorplansonbiodiversity, suchas
    comply
the International Convention on Intervention in the High Seas, the Kano Convention, the National
Forestry Plan; and (ii)  draw up a contingency plan for the management o f hydro meteorological and/or
geophysical disasters.

The 1995 Decree No. 678 by Prime Minister linkedto Law 18/12, further taking into account Law
20/01 of 1994, sets the basis for establishing a zoning system for rational land-use and
complementary GIS maps for rational development. The long-term stability and continuity o f these
policies are at risk, however, without continued support from the World Bank and other donors. These
activities would be supported under the Community Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP)-
GEF operation through a participatory approach to spatial planning and development in the priority
intervention zones, and will include collaboration with the Forest and Environment Development
Program (FEDPG) (cf. section 2.2. below, page 7).

Likewise, considerable interest exists among the Government o f Cameroon and rural communities to
address land degradation in a more concentrated, integrated way. Recent forestry sector reforms have
demonstrated the political will and capacity to implement difficult environmental measures. Injust a few
years, an interdisciplinary team has beentransforming a sector that untilrecently was completely opaque.
Reforms have tested approaches critical to environmentally sustainable development, including
competitive awarding of concessions, levying penalties for illegal logging, increased transparency, and
increasingthe share of royalties accruingto local governingbodies inruralareas.

Law No. 79/05 dated June 29, 1979, and Ordonnances No. 74-1, 74-2, and 74-3 dated July 6 1974,
address the issue o f land use and tenure in Cameroon. They were followed by Law No. 80122 dated July
 14, 1980 (measures on mitigation violation of land tenure), Law No. 19 dated November 26, 1983 (which
modifies articles of the 1974 Ordonnances), and Decree No. 841311 dated May 22, 1984. The
implementation of this land tenure legislation framework is difficult at the local level, as it is sometimes
in contradiction with traditional land rights; thereby leading to potential conflicts, specifically with
regards to encroachment, land damages resulting from herding, and the non-existence or non-respect o f
zoning plans that determine agricultural andpastoraygrazing zones (cf. sectionD. 4. for further details).


                                                      3

The Government of Cameroon is engaged in administrativedecentralization. As stipulated in Law
74/23 and the 1996 constitution, the Government has begunto create decentralized entities. For example,
the communes,which are governedby an elected mayor and council andbecoming the decentralized body
closest to local communities, have begunto play a major role in local development, collecting, depositing
and managing local resources, as well as implementing and maintaining local investments. Buildingon
this initiative, the proposed project will seek to raise awareness at the nationalandcommune levels of the
need for land reform, and will seek the adoption and implementation o f landscape use and management
plans at the commune level within the targeted Provinces.

The Government of Cameroon signed a Rural Development Policy letter on January 14, 2004, in
which it confirms its Rural Development Strategy. The latter defines local development as an important
axis o fthe strategy and as the framework for local development projects inCameroon. By beingpartially-
blended to the Community Development Program Support Project (Projet d'Appui au Programme
National de De`veloppementParticipatif- PAPWP), the proposed GEF project would benefit from this
strong Government support.

The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). Cameroon is committed to NEPAD's
objectives which call for increased attention to the agricultural sector and rural development initiatives.
The project will also support several o f its objectives. The NEPAD agricultural strategy identifies land
degradation as a priority intervention area: "initial interventions are envisaged to rehabilitate degraded
land and to address the factors that lead to such degradation". Furthermore, NEPAD's Comprehensive
Africa Agriculture Development Program (CAADP) has four pillars and priority investment areas,
including land management and water control, which includes capacity building for sustainable land
management policies. Wetlands conservation is also considered to be a critical area o f intervention by
NEPAD.

    c.    GovernmentStrategy

Cameroon's Strategy Documentfor the Developmentof the Rural Sector (Documentde Stratkgie de
Dheloppement du Secteur Rural) of February 2002 discusses the Government's goals o f reducing rural
poverty, promoting food security, increasing agricultural production, improving the quality of produce,
and ensuring agricultural and environmental sustainability. It further elaborates upon four (4) central axes
of achievingthe statedobjectives:
          (i)     Modernize the agricultural production apparatus by addressing the issue of land tenure,
                  ensuringaccessto water andresources(labor, capital, etc.), as well as promotingthe use of
                  innovative technology.
          (ii)    Restructure the institutional framework through improving the capacity and effectiveness
                  o f the public sector and key stakeholders, promoting the responsibility and dynamism o f
                  local communities, and seeking contractual relationships with local NGOs.
          (iii)   Create a legal environment conducive to rural development by promoting access to
                  information and markets, andthe development o f rural infrastructure.
          (iv)    Promote the sustainable management o f natural resources through promoting mechanisms
                  o f coordination among all stakeholders (including the administration and Ministries), high
                  implication of communes and local communities in this effort, awareness-raising on the
                  value of resources and innovative management methods, adoption o f communal landscape
                  use and managementplans and promoting conflict resolutionframeworks.

The proposed project is in accordance with the objectives and axes in Cameroon's Strategy Document,
and especially axis (iv). Axes (i), and (iii) be addressed by the project as means o f ensuring the
                                      (ii)         will
effectiveness and sustainability o f landmanagement inthe targeted Provinces.




                                                       4

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

2.1.     Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

The Bank is active in Cameroon in the area of local development. The Bank has a comparative
advantage in supporting community participation, raising awareness o f the value o f natural resources,
scaling up operations to achieve national coverage, and improving governance at the national and local
levels. Through the Programme National de Vulgarisation et de Recherche Agricole (PNVRA), now
closed, and the PAPNDP, the Bank i s actively involved in local development inCameroon. Other donors,
on the other hand, have been much more active in the support of development than decentralization
efforts at the local level.

The Bank hasstrong multisectoral experience inlocaldevelopmentinCameroon. With its support to
forestry, infrastructure, education, health and agriculture, the Bank has been instrumental in helping the
Government develop and implement operations enabling communities to gain control over service
delivery and resource allocation. The Bank's past experience in Cameroon enables it to be successful in
efforts to harmonize support to community action plans. Through the proposed project, the Bank will go
one step forward in its involvement in Cameroon through its efforts to promote sustainable natural
resource management.

The Bank has acquired broad experience with community-drivendevelopment (CDD) projects in
Cameroon, and Africa as a whole. In effect, several CDD operations are underway in Africa (Benin,
Burkina Faso, Chad, Ethiopia, Guinea, Madagascar, Niger, Senegal, etc.). The Bank has solid experience
in social funds based on the demand-driven development approach. By building on the experience of
these projects, and even more so on the lessons o f PNVRA and PAPNDP, the proposed project will have
comparative advantage which should result inthe successful implementationof its operations.

The Bank is striving for better donor coordinationin rural development in Cameroon. The Bank
plays a strong role in donor coordination for rural development in Africa, especially in Cameroon. The
Bank has led several multi-donor preparation missions that ended with the financial and technical
commitments o f several partners. The alignment, harmonization, and results agenda is moving ahead full
speed, under strong Government leadership. Based on recent Government/donor meetingsat the technical
level, an action plan has been agreedupon and is being implemented for increased donor coordination in
development efforts in Cameroon. The GEF project will extend the Bank's partnerships with bilateral
donors under the PAPNDP (French Cooperation, Germany, andNetherlands).

2.2.     Rationalefor GEF involvement

Cameroon is co-financing and borrowing for the multi-donor financed National Community Development
Program (PNDP), one o f the major instruments envisioned by the Government to achieve the goals
identified in the second pillar o f its PRSP. PNDP is a framework program for the Government o f
Cameroon to coordinate a number of complementary projects and donor interventions aimed at
strengthening local governance and realizing demand-driven micro-projects and capacity-building
activities at the community and communal level. The IDA-financed PAPNDP aims to achieve the goals o f
the PNDP by setting up a decentralized financing mechanism to ensure participatory community
development in rural areas. The PAPNDP's goal is to reduce poverty and promote sustainable rural
development in Cameroon, which includes assisting local communes and communities in enhancing
natural resource and agricultural productivity by preventingand reversing land degradation. Under the
PAPNDP, communities and communes will be engaged ina participatory appraisal o f their needs, leading
to the preparation of local development plans and the implementation o f micro-projects. PAPNDP is
structured as an APL and is being implemented inthree phases o f four years each; the first phase would
cover five o f Cameroon's ten provinces: South, Centre, West, Adamaoua, North, and Extreme North.


                                                     5

Similar projects under the PNDP are being financed by the German Development Cooperation Agency
(GTZ) andKFW inthe ExtremeNorth.

As a pilot operation in4 targetedProvinces(North, Adamaoua, Centre, and West), this GEF project will
aim to enhance the sustainable land and natural resource management components of the PAPNDP
project by complementing the local and national benefits of SLM with key global benefits such as (i)
improved conservation of above and belowground biodiversity; (ii)improved conservation of wetlands
and riparian zones that are essential for local and regional biodiversity conservation; (iii)enhanced
watershed management and ecohydrology; and (iv) reduced greenhouse gas emissions from land
management activities and enhancing the resilience of improved land management practices to climate
change (adaptation). The PAPNDP's impact on combatinglanddegradationwould be limitedto primarily
local and possibly some national benefits without the GEF incremental funding. The scale and scope of
activities to address land degradation under existing Government and donor commitments would be far
too limited and only scattered attentionwould be given to this critical issue. This pilot operation will be
reviewed andevaluatedwith respect to its performanceindicators, and GEF incrementalfunding will help
develop a replication and/or scaling-upplan of SLM best practices to be used by the Governmentduring
the subsequentphasesofthe PAPNDP.

The GEF componentshave been designedto complement and ensure the environmental benefits of each
of the four componentsof the first phase of this APL project (cf. Table 1inAnnex 15 - IncrementalCost
Analysis, detailing GEF-financedand IDA co-financedactivities). The GEF project's implementationand
executionarrangements will rely extensively on those of the PAPNDP (for further details, cf. Section C -
Implementation). The project will benefit from the Government and PAPNDP's cross-sectoral
framework, as well as existing decentralizedmanagement structures and logistics. The GEF project will
be more likely to achieve its objectives through the integration of innovative sustainable land
management practices into local development investments, the strengthening of the decentralization
process on land management, and capacity building at the local and national level for more rational
landscape level planning and management, afforded by the umbrella framework of the PAPNDP. Since
baseline activities will contribute to supporting the basic resource productivity and ecosystem service
needs of communities, the likelihood of success of GEF activities and associated global benefits will be
higher, as communities will be in a better position to address longer-term issues associated with land
degradation that contribute to the perpetuation of poverty. In addition, the GEF project's incremental
activities will contribute to PAPNDP's overarching development objective of reducing poverty and
promoting sustainable ruraldevelopment.

Likewise, this overarching structure, particularly in focusing on local and decentralized implementation,
will facilitate a more systematic implementationof Cameroon's priorities under the UNCCD, and create
synergies with other key national strategies relating to biodiversity conservation and land management.
GEF incremental activities will support the development and implementation of national priorities and
strategies under the UNConventionto Combat Desertification (UNCCD), and specifically, Cameroon's
priorities outlined in the NAP. Less significantly, the project will support program priorities on
sustainablelandmanagement outlined inthe Conventionon Biological Diversity and the UNFramework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), particularly as they relate to increasing vegetative cover,
conserving biodiversity, accelerating carbon storage in above- and below-ground biomass, and
maintaining soil organic carbon and nutrient levels essential for maintaining effective carbon
sequestrationand agro-biodiversity.

The GEF is uniquely positionedto support the project's objectives given the likely global environmental
benefits. Moreover, it is unlikely that these would be achieved in the absence of GEF support, due to
material, technical and financial resource constraints. The PAPNDP's impact on combating land
degradationin its zones of operation would be limitedand fragmented without GEF incrementalfunding
specifically dedicated to this issue and, sustainable land management would not be emphasized
sufficiently or coherently enough in both national sectoralor indecentralized development planning. The
                                                    6

scale and scope of activities that would specifically address land degradationunder existing Government
and donor commitments would be far too limited relative to the magnitude of the problem. Without a
more coherent framework for interventions, only scattered attentionwould be given to this critical issue.
Likewise, current efforts underway to promote landscape-levelplanning and management would continue
to evolve slowly, taking several more years to achieve national coverage than if GEF resources were
unavailable. Given Cameroon's high level of rural poverty, it is unlikely that communities would
undertake investments for global environmental benefits arising from sustainable land and water
management, particularly those with long-term payback periods, without GEF incremental funding for
capacity building and piloting of best practices. As a result, Cameroon would continue to experience
significant additional land, forest, savanna, and water degradation and the associated decreases in the
diversity of biological resources and environmental benefits in agro-silvopastoral lands. These trends
would undermine the likelihood of achieving the goals set by the Rural Development Strategy and by
extensionthe CameroonianPRSP.

The proposed project would also add value to and facilitate synergy among the GEF's existing portfolio
of projects in Cameroon thereby resulting in an integrated approach to addressing Cameroon's natural
resource managementand environmentalchallenges. The key programs impactedwould be:


    0    The GEF supportedForestandEnvironmentDevelopmentProgram(FEDPG). Forestdegradation
         frequently results in soil degradation. The FEDPG activities aimed at mitigating unsustainable
         management of forest resources, will thus also contribute to the proposed GEF objectives. The
         FEDPG land-use plan (Decree No. 95/53lPM, August 1995) already existing in Southern
         Cameroon will be complementedby the GEF activity aimedat completingthe process of land-use
         review and the preparation of land-use and management plans for the other parts of the country
         within the project intervention zones (Component 2 -sub-component 1 "Institutional support for
         SLM"). The activities will be implementedin collaboration with the Ministries of Agriculture,
         Livestock, Finance, and Planning. A common methodology on the topic of land/landscapeuse
         and management plans will be developed and shared by FEDPG and the proposed GEF SLM
         project. The activities will attenuate some of the root causes of forest degradation such as: (i)
         agricultural expansion at forest margins (ii) of nutrient inputs to stabilize optimum soil
                                                        lack
         fertility levels for enhanced productivity, (iii)farmers' unfamiliarity with appropriate crop
         rotations; and (iv) lack of participation and inequity of access to resources, and knowledge.
         Collaboration between both GEF projects will be assured through regular meetings on the
         preparation and implementationof annual work programs, sharing andjoint synthesis of outputs,
         andto the extendpossible, a commonschedule for supervisionmissions.

     0   Regional and transboundary programs. The proposed project will also facilitate synergies with
         other ongoing GEF activities in the country and region (e.g.: Reversing Land and Water
         DegradationTrends in the Niger River Basin and in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem (for more
         information, please refer to Annex 2).

GEF funding will also be critical to leverage additional donor support for the second and third phases of
the PAPNDP and SLM in Cameroon. This will allow for broader coverage of project interventions and
accelerate the development of sound institutional capacity and policies for sustainable land management.
With GEF support, the World Bank is currently incubating the TerrAfrica Partnership, which is a multi-
partner platform that aims to scale-up SLM across SSA. Its activities center on building coalitions at
regional and national levels to promote SLM across sectors, share knowledge, and help coordinate
 investments, thereby maximizing efficiencies and impacts. The TerrAfrica partnership is inclusive,
 involving SSA countries, civil society and research organizations, multilaterals and bilaterals (i.e., the
AfDB, EuropeanCommission, FAO, IFAD,NEPAD, UNCCD Secretariat, UNDP, UNEP, andthe World
Bank). Inthis context, the World Bank's pivotal role inthe TerrAfrica Partnershipwould be leveragedfor
 scaling-up the best practicesof the pilot interventionsestablishedunder the project.


                                                      7

3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

3.1 The PovertyReductionStrategyPaper (PRSP)

Cameroon's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) dated April 30, 2003, identifies poverty, food
insecurity, poor market integration, andunsustainable utilization of natural resources as major challenges
to rural sector growth in Cameroon. It also underlines that changes in the ecosystem and declining soil
fertility, among other factors, deteriorate the productive environment. Land degradation thus represents a
fundamental challenge to reaching the overarching goals o f Cameroon's PRSP, namely, to bolster
economic growth inthe rural sector, to sustain rural livelihoods, and to reduce the incidence and severity
o f poverty.

The proposed project is coherent with the PRSP, which focuses on seven(7) strategic areas: (i)  promoting
a stable macroeconomic framework,            (ii)strengthening growth by diversifying the economy,
(iii)revitalizing the private sector as the main engine growth and a partner in delivering social services,
(iv) developing basic infrastructures and natural resources while protecting the environment,
(v) accelerating regional integration in the framework of CEMAC, (vi) strengthening human resources
and the social sector and facilitating the integration of vulnerable groups into the economy and
(vii) improving the institutionalframework, administrative management, and governance.

3.2 Sector-relatedCountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) supported by the projectDocument number:
     26555. Date of latest CASdiscussion:September 11,2003

Cameroon's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) o f August 14, 2003, has been aligned with the PRSP's
goal of poverty reduction through improved basic delivery, private sector-led growth, and better
governance. The proposed project is in line with the CAS, and it will help reinforce its first pillar:
strengthening the institutional framework for improved pro-poor economic management and service
delivery. By improving the productivity o f ago-silvopastoral land, the project will support growth in, and
greater economic diversification of Cameroon's primary sector. This crucial factor will contribute to a
reduction o f rural poverty by improvingthe income of small farmers and increasing food security. It will
seek to develop improved natural resource management, while protecting the environment through
capacity building in sustainable land management at local and national levels. The capacity building
activities will empower communities and increase the meaningful participation of stakeholders. As a
result, it will contribute to improving governance and the institutional framework for pro poor economic
management.

3.3 World BankRuralDevelopmentStrategiesfor Cameroon

A Rural Sector Review (RSR) was completed by the Bank on January 9,2003. Itassessedthe mainissues
and constraints to rural sector performance in Cameroon and proposed an action plan for the Bank,
including a national local development program. The RSR also highlightedhow sustainable community
development requires support to communities and programs for capacity-building. The proposed project
is in accordance with the PRSP's goal.

An Integrated Rural Development Strategy was developed within the structure o f Cameroon's Poverty
Reduction Strategy; this strategy evolves around four pillars: (i)  modernizing production, (ii)   building
institutional frameworks, (iii)establishing stronger incentives, and (iv) improving natural resource
management. The land conservation and management component o f the Natural Resource Management
(NRM) pillar is an important focal area for increasing the rural production base. The Government will
encourage sustainable development by: (i)     coordinating the management o f renewable natural resources,
involving all administration and key users; (ii)  restoring and safeguarding production potential; and (iii)
ensuring reliable local management of rural community infrastructures. The Rural Development Strategy
particularly underlines that the above measures will focus on protecting soil fertility, the conservation of

                                                      8

water resources, the conservation of land pastures, and the conservation o f biodiversity. Within its rural
strategy, the Government also intends to support cross-sector policies and actions related to land
management reform and capacity building.

3.4 Relevant Environment Strategies

The GEF's Operational Policy 15 (GEF OP15) aims to catalyze partnerships with organizations, land
users, and stakeholders to provide coordinated support at various levels to address land degradation in a
manner that achieves lasting global environment benefits. In addition, OP15 strives to mitigate and
prevent land degradation inorder to maintain the "structure and functional integrity o f ecosystems". The
proposed project strongly supports this aim. It will not only mitigate existing negative impacts o f land
degradation, but will also address the root causes, thereby contributing to restoring the productivity o f
natural resources in agro-silvopastoral areas. Land degradation in Cameroon negatively affects other
ecosystem components, and is linked to poor water quality and the loss of biodiversity and vegetative
cover. Global environmental benefits of the proposed project include restoringthe ecosystem health and
the services the ecosystems will provide through increasing soil moisture and decreasing o f erosion rates.
Project interventions will also promote biodiversity conservation and enhance the protection o f classified
forests and wildlife protected areas as result o f communal landscape use and management plans, new
conflict management plans for existing resources, and increased awareness targeted at communities
living in or adjacent to gallery forests, riparian areas, and buffer zones. Other expected global
environmental benefits of the proposed project include rehabilitation of degraded lands, enhanced
biodiversity conservation and the reappearance of rare and endangered species in the fragile agro-
silvopastoral ecosystems, a reduction o f soil erosion, and an increase of vegetative cover within the
project intervention areas.

The proposed GEF project is in line with OP15 strategic priorities No. 1 (Targeted Capacity Building)
and No. 2 (Implementation o f Innovative and Indigenous SLMPractices). Targeted capacity buildingwill
focus on integrated landscapeuse and management planning primarily at the communal level. Inaddition,
project activities will provide support at the national level for strengthening participatory institutional
mechanisms and capacity for integrated land-use planning and implementation. Likewise, interventions in
vulnerable areas and the dissemination o f best practice SLM technologies through co-funding of
innovative, demand-driven micro-projects will be supported. Inthis way, land-resource management and
conflict resolutionmechanisms can be mainstreamed under a cross-sectoral approach.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The project will be financed by a GEF grant (US$ 6.0 m), a PDF-B allocation (US$ 0.35m), and co-
financing from communes and community basedorganizations (US$0.36 m), for a total cost o f US$6.71
m. The associatedPAPNDP program is structured as an APL consisting of three, four-year phases (for
further information, see Annex 4). More specifically, the GEF project will: (i) local development
                                                                               support
through the implementation of demand-driven micro-projects;            (ii)support decentralization by
strengthening local, technical and financial capacity, and building social capital; and (iii)support local
capacity-building activities.

2. Project development and global environmentalobjectives, and key indicators

The project's development objective (PDO) is to enable communities to contribute to combating land
degradation in critical areas. This will be achieved through the adoption o f SLM best practices and the
development of adequate capacity, tools, and mechanisms by communities, thereby strengthening the
overall impact ofthe PAPNDP. The project will build on national sustainable land management programs
                                                    9

to ensure that the short and medium-term objectives of increased land productivity and agricultural
growth are reconciled with the long-term local, provincial, national, and global environmental objectives.

The global environmental objective of the proposed project is to enhance the sustainable land and
natural resource management components o f the PAPNDP project by complementing the local and
national benefits o f SLM with key global benefits suchas:
     1. Conservation of globally significant above and belowgroundbiodiversity.
     2. Reduction of carbon emissions via improved landmanagementactivities, rehabilitated degraded
         lands, and increased carbon sequestration.
     3.  Stabilizing riparian zones andreductionof sediment discharge into critical trans-boundary water
         bodies such as Lake Chad and the Gulfof Guinea.

The global objective will be accomplished by the following components (see Annex 4 for a detailed
description andAnnex 5 for a detailed cost breakdown):

    1. Enhancinp integration of SLM into local development activities. Assist communes and
        communities in identifying key land management constraints and opportunities for improved
        productivity, ecosystem services, and global environmental benefits. Implement priority micro-
        projects to stop and reverse land degradation and thus enhance the conservation of globally
        significant biodiversity including agro-biodiversity.
    2. Institutionalsup~ortfor SLM. Reinforce institutional collaboration at the national level, and
        strengthen the capacities of beneficiaries to better integrate SLM best practices in their local
        development plans. Implementand improve conflict resolution frameworks and mechanisms in
        collaboration with traditional chiefs to effectively mitigate tensions among farmers, cattle
        herders, protected area and other naturalresourceusers.
    3. Project management, coordination, monitorinpand evaluation, and communication. Ensure
        proper project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, communication, and
        dissemination of lessons learned.

The project's key expected outcome indicators and global environmental benefit indicators that will be
used to evaluate project achievements include (they are summarized in the Development Grant
Agreement (DGA) and fully detailed inthe Results FrameworkinAnnex 3):

               Bythe midtermreview                                         By projectend
      At least 25,000 ha are under SLMpractices in         At least 50,000 ha are under SLMpractices in
      ProjectTarget Zones.                                  the Project Target Zones.
      At least 2,000 haof protected areaboundaries,        At least 5,000 ha ofprotected area
     buffer zones, andriparian zones have been             boundaries, buffer zones andriparianzones
     rehabilitated through SLMpractices inthe Project      have beenrehabilitatedthrough SLM
     Target Zones.                                         practices inthe Project Target Zones.
      At least2 LandscapeUse andManagement Plans           At least 5 Landscape Use and Management
      have beenpreparedand implementedat the               Plans have been prepared and are being
      communal level.                                      implementedat the communal level.
                                                           The landfertility as measuredthrough: (i)  pH-
                                                           H20 (ii)  available P205; (iii)Exchangeable
                                                           A13+ rate; (iv) organic carbon rate; and (v)
                                                           erosion rate, has increased (for details on
                                                            increase. cf. Annex 3).
                                                           At least 3 community forests are being
                                                           managed ina sustainable manner inthe
                                                           Project Target Zones.
                                                           Increasedvegetative cover and re-emergence
                                                            o f agro-biodiversity intargetedareas by at
                                                     10

                                                              least 25,000 ha.
       At least 20 communal Micro-projects and 60             At least 60 communalMicro-projects and 150
       community Micro-projects have been approved            community Micro-projects have been
       and are beingimplemented.                              approved and are being implemented.
       At least 3 conflict resolutionframeworks are           At least 10conflict resolutionframeworks are
       operational at the communal level, through Land        operational at the communal level, through
       Tenure Land Tenure Commissions andthe                  LandTenure LandTenure Commissions and
       Conflict Resolution Commissions.                       the Conflict ResolutionCommissions.
       A GIS database on land and naturalresources is in
       place and is being used.
       A study hasbeencarriedout onthe sustainability
       and legal status of Land Use andManagement
       Plans.
       Effective monitoring and evaluation (Le., M&E
       mechanisms under PAPNDP are adaptedto the
       project and are beingused).
                                                              The National Commissionfor Environment
                                                              and Sustainable Development and the Inter
                                                              Ministerial Committee for the Environment
                                                              are functional inpromoting sound SLM
                                                              policies and strategies.
                                                              At least 100local community-based
                                                              organizations have an improved knowledge o f
                                                              SLMandenvironmentalissues andare
                                                              implementingbiodiversity and
                                                              environmentally-friendly SLMpractices.
                                                              Legal texts on landtenure (and land-use
                                                              rights) are reviewed,constraints to sustainable
                                                              land management identified, modifications
                                                              proposed, and submittedfor adoption.
                                                              At least 10 SLMbest practices and lessons
                                                              have been identified ina participatory
                                                              manner, and are regularly disseminated.

3. Project components

GEF Project's Priority Zones. As a pilot operation, the project intends to support sustainable land
management, and more specifically contribute to combating land degradation in 4 targeted Provinces:
North, Adamaoua, Centre, and West. The priority areas for the project's intervention have been selected
based on levels o f land degradation, land use systems, environment management, and population
concerned. Within the four targetedprovinces divided into sub-ago-ecological zones (10), the sites were
selected on the basis o f the following criteria: (i) severity o f land degradation (as measured through soil
fertility depletion, rate o f water runoff, and soil erosion, declining land productivity); (ii)  presence o f
protected areas; (iii) land-use systems/productivity; (iv) biodiversity conservation, crop cover and agro-
forestry practices; (v) socio-economic facilitating factors or constraints; and (vi) other facilitating factors
(landscape use and management plans, maps, and accessibility o f the sites). For further details, please
refer to Table 1 in Annex 4. Land degradation is more acute in the North and Adamaoua Provinces (cf.
map 1 in Annex 1, and Annex 17), and is felt by communities as one of the main constraints for
improving their livelihood. Based on anticipated demand, the project activities will most likely target
these 2 Provinces. A list o f intervention sites has been validated duringappraisal (cf. Table 2 inAnnex 4).
Upon a subsequent review o f the project's performance indicators, the Project will be replicated and
scaled-up duringPAPNDP's secondandthirdphases.

                                                       11

Components. The GEF project has three main components (see Annex 4 for a detailed description and
Annex 5 for a detailed cost breakdown): (i)enhanced integration of SLM into local development;
(ii)institutional support for SLM; and (iii)project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation,
and communication. The components have been designed to accelerate investments in SLM and the
prevention and rehabilitation of land degradation and to promote the development of capacity, tools, and
mechanisms for communities' ownership inthis process. The activities of these components will mitigate
the mainbarriersto adopting effective SLMbest practices in Cameroon.

Component 1- Enhancing the integration of SLM into local develoument (Total US$70.90m: GEF
US$3.60m: Beneficiaries co-financing; US$1.39m; Government co-financing US$32.47m; IDA co-
financing; US$l0.OOm; AFDKFW co-financing US$23.44m)

Obiective of component 1: The main objective o f this component is to co-finance SLMmicro-projects,
at the request o f beneficiaries (communities and communes), within the project's intervention zone.

The project intendsto finance at least 20 communal micro-projects by the midtermreview, and at least 60
communal micro-projects by project-end for a total of US$2,400,000 (i.e., approximately 1,322,400,000
CFA Francs). The project also intends to finance at least 60 community micro-projects by the midterm
review, and at least 150 community micro-projects by project-end for a total o f US$1,200,000
(ie., approximately 661,200,000       CFA Francs). The total amounts allocated to micro-projects
(US$3,600,000 - i.e., 1,983,600,000 CFA Francs) do not include the estimated total of beneficiaries
contribution (US$360,000 - i.e., 198,360,000 CFA Francs). The latter's contributions will be the same for
both communal and community micro-project; at least 10 percent of the cost of the micro-project, of
which at least 2 percent will be incash.

Eligibility criteria for micro-projects have been developed and agreed upon during appraisal (cf. Annex
4). A negative list o f micro-projects (cf. Table 3 inAnnex 4) and a non-exhaustive positive list (cf. Table
2 inAnnex 4) have also been elaborated.

Svnergv between the PAPNDP and uroposed GEF proiect: The PAPNDP provides technical
assistance to communes and communities to prepare their development plans in a participatory manner,
and to address their locallcommunal issues and needs. The local development plans (which are either
communal or community development plans) provide the basis for the selection and the design of micro-
projects. The eligible micro-projects may be in the domain of collective social investments, public
marketing infrastructure, rural finance and natural resources management. Under PAPNDP, grants are
channeled to communes and communities to co-finance their proposed micro-projects to reduce poverty
by addressingtheir priority needs.

Through sub-component 2.1., the GEF project will assist communes and communities in identifyingand
capturing SLM concerns and environmental benefits and introducing their SLM concerns into local
development plans, which will provide the basis for the selection and the design of micro-projects. Based
on local development plans and via component 1, the GEF project will complement and co-finance
community and communal-driven micro-projects on SLM in its priority areas. These micro-projects will
enable communities to help retard and reverse land degradation while conserving the unique biodiversity
(including agro-silvopastoral-biodiversity), hence improving its productivity.

Specific activities to be financed bv the GEF uroiect: While building on Indigenous Technical
Knowledge (ITK) in the design and implementation o f SLM practices, the activities to be supported
include financing micro-projects on SLM to reduce soil erosion and water runoff and to improve
vegetative cover. Other GEF co-financed supported activities include the promotion o f technologies that
conserve soil and water, and thus preserve biodiversity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Example o f
such technologies include contour planting, windbreaks, shelterbelts with native species, renewal o f
degradedhillsides andpastures, ecologically sound water management, application o f conservation tillage
                                                      12

systems, and mixed agroforestry systems (cf. the PLM for a more exhaustive list o f activities to be
financed).

Main outcomes: The main outcome o f this component will be the identification and increased adoption
of SLM good practices by communes/communities that not only enhance land productivity but also
conserve native biodiversity, enhance carbon sequestration, andreduce greenhouse gas emissions through
proper implementation of demand-drivenmicro-projects.

Target proup: Component 1 will target: (i)rural communes and rural community-based organizations
(CBOs with legal status), particularly resource-poor farmers (subsistence and small-sized farmers) living
incritical areas for land management and biodiversity conservation and women, who for example inthe
North and Adamaoua Provinces lack access to water and fuel-wood and may need some support in
developing water facilities and community and/or communal forests; and (ii)indigenous and minority
groups such as the Pygmiesand Mbororos.

Component 2      -  Institutional support for SLM (Total US$11.552m: GEF US$1.712m; IDA co-
financing- US$4.45m: Government co-financing US$2.36m: AFDKFW co-financing US$3.03m)

Through this component, the project aims to reinforce the institutional framework at the national level,
and strengthen the capacities of beneficiaries to better integrate SLM best practices in their local
development plans. It also seeks to improve the mechanism of land conflict resolution, among farmers,
foresters, herders, other natural resource users, and traditional chiefs.

Sub-component 2.1 - Institutional support to the land reform process: (Total US$7.47m: GEF
US$0.7lm; IDA co-financing US$3.43m: Government co-financing US$1.OOm: AFDKFW co-financing
US$2.33m)

Obiective of sub-component 2.1: The main objective o f this sub-component is to: (i)           develop and
reinforce policies, regulations, and institutionalframeworks at national and decentralized levels to address
land degradation and to mainstream SLM issues into appropriate rural development policy frameworks;
(ii)contribute, jointly with key concerned ministries,to the delineation o f ago-silvopastoral lands within
the project's intervention zones, and assist in the implementation o f at least 5 landscape use and
management plans at the communal level by the project end (i.e., at least 2 by the midtermreview); and
(iii)support existing commissions (i.e., the CommissionNationale Consultativepour 1'Environnementet
le Ddveloppement Durable - CNCEDD - and the Comitd Interministe'riel de 1'Environnement- CIE) and
concerned ministriesinthe recognition of traditional land management rights and the promotion of their
implication inthe land-use and tenure process, as a means of mitigating conflicts o f land which are often
a major cause of the lack o f adoption of SLMand landdegradation.

Svnervv between the PAPNDP and proposed GEF proiect: The PAPNDP supports the
decentralization process in Cameroon by strengthening local governance to give accountable
decentralized authorities the legal authority and human and financial resources needed for local
development. It will increase sensitization on decentralization through its support to the MINATD
outreach and communication campaigns for administrative decentralization. It provides financial
resources for studies and technical and advisory services to support the finalization o f the preparation o f
 legal and regulatory framework for local governance in particular regarding fiscal decentralization,
 including on mechanism to transfer funds to municipalities.

Although the proposed GEF project does not intendto resolve the far-too-complex issue o f landtenure, it
will contribute to improving the existing mechanism for landscape use and management planning, thus
reducing agro-silvopastoral conflicts. These GEF supported contributions will lead to a reduction in the
number of delimitedlands beingencroached upon or beingdeclared protectedareas (at the national level)
with total disregard for previous consensuallandmanagement arrangements at the local level.
                                                       13

With regards to the CNCEDD and the CIE, the project will assist with suggestions for reviewing, and
possibly amending Decrees No. 78/263 (dated September 03, 1978), No. 941259 (dated May 31, 1994),
No. 2001/718PM (dated September 03,2001), and No. 044/CAB/PM (dated August 02,2004) inorder to
improvetheir effectiveness.

To this end, the project will reinforce the capacity o f relevant institutions at the national and provincial
levels to coordinate across administrative and thematic boundaries, scale-up applicationo f good practices,
and finally accelerate the process of multi-sectoral coordination among key ministriesto promote sound
SLMpolicies, programs, andguidelines.

Specific activities to be financed bv the GEF project: In order to achieve the objectives o f this sub-
component, the project will seek to reinforcethe existing: (i)legal and institutional framework inview o f
promoting land tenure, as well as institutional capacities o f coordination; and (ii)  functioning of SLM-
relatedconsultationand coordinationcommittees, especially the CommissionNationale Consultativepour
1'Environnement et le De'veloppement Durable (CNCEDD) and the Comite' Interministiriel de
E 'Environnement (CIE).

To this end, GEF resources will be usedto finance workshops, training, study tours, consulting services,
and small equipment and software in support of: (i)    raising awareness at the community and commune
level of the existence and role o f existing rural development and conflict mitigation apparatuses;
(ii)enhancing the effectiveness of, and collaboration betweenmembers o f SLM-related consultation and
coordination committees; (iii)fostering increased dialogue between local Governments, rural
communities, and their leaders, farmers, herdersand other resource users; (iv) revisingand/or elaborating,
decrees or laws for the promotion o f land tenure (and land-use rights) and submission for adoption; and
(v) preparing integrated SLM landscape use and management plans at the communal level, and related
simple planning tools for their usage, in order to strengthen the dialogue and conflict resolution
mechanisms among concerned stakeholders (local authorities, communities, farmers, herders and other
natural resource-users).

Main outcomes: The main outcomes of this sub-component will be: (i) comprehensive policy and
                                                                               a
institutional framework to support SLM and associated environmental benefits, as well as promote
improved land tenure practices; (ii)strengthened awareness and coordination among key ministries to
promote and mainstream sound SLMpolicies, program and guidelines; (iii)         support to the functioning o f
the CNCEED and CIE in promoting and mainstreaming SLM; (iv) development o f land-use planning
which integrates SLM needs; (v) at 'least 5 landscape use and management plans at the communal level,
by project end; and (vi) a SLM replication plan developed by the project and Government to ensure the
sustainablemainstreaming o f best SLMpractices at project end.

Target Proup: The targeted groups of this component are targeted communities and communes (for the
elaboration of local development plans), inter-ministerial committees o f coordination on SLM, such as the
CommissionNationale Consultativepour 1'Environnement et de le De'veloppement Durable (CNCEDD)
and the Comiti Interministiriel de 1'Environnement(CIE).

Sub-Component 2.2 - EnhancinP capacity building at the local level: (Total US$4.082m: GEF
US$1.002m: IDA co-financing US$l.O2m; Government co-financing US$l.36m; AFDKFW co-
financing US$0.7m)

 Obiectiveof sub-component 2.2: The main objective o f this sub-component is to: (i) the capacity
                                                                                           build
 of beneficiaries in integrating SLM best practices in their local development plans; and (ii)  contribute to
 an improvement of land-use conflict resolution mechanisms (between farmers, herders, foresters,
traditional chiefs, and other natural resource users).


                                                      14

Svnerw between the PAPNDP and proposed GEF proiect: Under the PAPNDP, the capacity of
communes will be strengthened through targeted training and programs (communal accounting,
decentralization, conflict resolution, and local development) for elected decentralized authorities and
commune staff. Local implementingagencies and/or technical agents are contracted out to strengthen the
beneficiaries' capacity in the preparation o f local and communal development plans, micro-projects, and
their implementation. While assisting communities inthe participatory planning process, facilitators will
be able to assess community capacities and design specific training and outreach programs to be
implemented by specialists contracted by the project. This training will allow beneficiaries to gradually
take on more responsibilitiesand will increasetheir ownership o f micro-projects. The PAPNDP currently
finances: (i) studies to assess communes' capacities and development capacity-building programs; (ii)
training for elected decentralized authorities and commune staff; (iii)accounting agents to be
progressively taken charge by communes; (iv) equipment, mainly information technology to allow
adequate financial management and monitoring and evaluation; and (v) support to communes and
communities inthe elaboration o f local development plans.

Building upon the baseline training of beneficiaries supported by the PAPNDP, the GEF project will
support incremental capacity buildingand training o f local communities and communes on integrating
good SLM practices (and their related environmentalbenefits) into local and communal project planning.
This component will also facilitate the preparation and development o f awareness-raising programs
through local press, workshops andtraining seminars, for the benefit of targeted communes, communities,
NGOs and concerned line-ministries. In this way, these activities will foster cross-sectoral partnerships
for SLM at local levels and increase local access to good practices and emerging knowledge that help
guide SLMinvestments. Inorder to further achieve the objectives of this sub-component, the project will
seek to reinforce, at the prefectoral level, the existing Land Tenure Commissions (i.e., Commission
Consultative FonciBre) and Commissions on the modalities for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts
(i.e., CommissionConsultativede RBglement des Confits Agro-Pastoraux).

Specific activities to be financed bv the GEF proiect: Inorder to achieve the objectives o f this sub-
component, the project will seek to reinforce stakeholders' capacities through: (i) preparation and
                                                                                        the
development o f awareness-raising campaigns and programs, and training o f beneficiaries (communities
and communes), local implementingagencies, technical and administrative representatives, as well as the
project's decision committees (Communal Decision Committee (CDC)/Municipal Council and Provincial
Decision Committee (PDC)) and implementing committees (Project's Provincial Coordination Unit,
Municipal Executive Committee, and Consultative Committee); (ii)         land-use planning diagnostics and
targeted environmental studies focused on enhancing the implementation o f integrated landscape or
watershed management plans including upstream-downstream linkages and hydrological flows where
watersheds are the unit of analysis, as well as riparianzones, gallery forests, and buffer zones of protected
areas (which would directly feed into the subsequent design, development, and monitoring of micro-                ,
projects eligible under Component 1) ; and (iii)     the elaboration of a methodological guide and tools
appropriate for the elaboration o f landscape use and management plans and integrated management o f
watersheds, buffer zones, forest galleries and protected areas. The project will also contribute to
reinforcing the functionality o f existing Land Tenure Commissions and Commissions on the modalities
for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts (with strengthened inclusion o f farmers, foresters, pastoralists, other
resource users and community leaders), in view o f an improved efficiency o f the land-use conflict
resolutionmechanismat the local level.

To this end, GEF incremental resources will finance workshops, study tours, studies (Feasibility for SLM
Planning, Site Diagnosis and advanced Soil Analysis), critical technical assistance to assist beneficiaries
in designing and implementing SLM micro-projects, and an awareness campaign (advertisements on
radio and in local press). Eligible activities would also include consultant services and training for:
(i) sharing and disseminating knowledge on improved farming methods based on the results o f PDF-B
funded studies; (ii)implementing practices entailing more efficient use o f natural resources; and
(iii) stockofinnovativeSLMtechnologiesandtheirdissemination.Tothegreatestextentpossible,
      taking
                                                      15

activities will promote locally appropriate technologies and customized approaches to land conservation
and rehabilitation. The activities of this sub-component will be realized in conjunction with several
research institutions selected on a competitive basis.

Main outcomes: The project outcomes are: (i)at least 100 local communities have an improved
knowledge o f SLM and environmental issues and knowledge and are able to properly implement SLM
tool kits by the project end; (ii)at least 6,000 households have adopted and are implementing SLM
practices; (iii)effective functioning of the LandTenure Commissions and Commissions onthe modalities
for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts; and (iv) at least 10 Conflict Resolution Frameworks are effectively
operational at the communal level by project end(3 by the midtermreview).

Tarvet Prom: This sub-component will target the following groups: communes, communities, local
implementingagencies and local service providers (including NGOs), indigenous people (Pygmies), as
well as vulnerable groups (the Mbororos), LandTenure Commissions and Commissions onthe modalities
for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts.

Comuonent 3 -Proiect manavement, coordination, monitoring:and evaluation, and communication
(Total US$15.54m: GEF US$0.688m; IDA co-financing US$5.55m; Government co-financing
US$2.03m; AFDKFW co-financing US$7.28m)

Obiective of comDonent 3: The main objective of this component is to ensure proper project
management, coordination, monitoringand evaluation, and communication.

SvnerPv between the PAPNDPand urouosed GEF uroiect: The PAPNDP ensuresproject coordination
through workshops and meetings aimed at better coordination among ministries, a better liaison with
donors, and better national communication. It has set up (i)      a computerized monitoring and evaluation
systemto follow activities in financial and technical terms, and (ii) knowledge management system for
                                                                        a
decision makers. Stakeholders at every level are involved in gathering, processing analyzing, storing and
disseminating the information required for transparent and efficient decision-making, and for sound
financial and technicalmonitoringo f activities.

Under this component, the GEF project will benefit from PAPNDP's management, coordination,
monitoring and evaluation and communication systems already in place, adding leverage to SLM
advocates in Cameroon in their efforts to embed SLM into sectoral activities. Land degradation and
biodiversity parameters will be integrated into existing M&E systems (see results expected and tentative
indicators in the result framework). The PAPNDP's GIS database will be complemented by usage o f the
land-use map and associated MIS, which will facilitate optimal replication of activities to areas most
vulnerable to landdegradation. This process will also provide a better handle on evaluatingthe impacts of
various interventions on SLM.

Suecific activities to be financed bv the GEF uroiect: GEF resources will be used to finance
incremental project management and monitoring needs: mainly, workshops, office equipment and
supplies, vehicle, consultant services and staff salaries for the accountant and SLMspecialist, and related
operational costs. GEF Funds will also be usedto update PAPNDP's GIS database inview of developing
up-to-date GIS maps and layers on naturalresource endowments inthe priority areas.

Mainoutcomes: The mainoutcomes o fthis component will be: (i) development of baseline databases
                                                                       the
on land and natural resources inthe targetedlocations; (ii)   effective monitoring and evaluation @e., M&E
mechanisms and GIS database under PAPNDP are adapted to the GEF project are being used); (iii)
efficient and timely production of technical and financial progress reports; and (iv) dissemination of
project impacts and results, as well as best practices and lessons learnedon SLM.



                                                      16

Tarpet Prom: The target groups o fthis component are the following: the NCU, mainly its implementing
agencies and its monitoring and evaluation unit.

Summary of GEF incrementalactivitiesby component

4ctivities financed byIDA                        Activities financed by GEF
                                                I
Component 1:Enhanced integration of SLMir 9 local development
1>Co-financing- o f-public micro-projects and    >Co-finance    communities and communes in
;ommunity/communal infrastructure                the implementationofdemand driven,
                                                 incremental micro-projects on integrated, SLM
                                                 practices. The global environmentalactivities
                                                 may include, inter alia, establishment of
                                                 windbreaks and bufferstrips, rehabilitation o f
                                                 wetlands; improved management o f livestock
                                                 and agricultural wastes; development o f
                                                 community-based rangeland and bushfire
                                                 management programs, and invasive species
                                                 control programs. Some activities might consist
                                                 inpiloting results of innovative SLMpractices
                                                 introducedby national and local research
                                                 institutions.

Sub-component 2.1 -Institutional support to the land reform process
>Improvement o fthe legal framework for          >Provide policy advisory inthe review and
local governance                                 submission for adoption of legaltexts on land
>Capacity buildingfor Councils in local          tenure (and land-use rights).
development and financial management
>Sensitization                                   >Support   thepreparation, approval, and
               on decentralization               implementation o f landscapeuse and
                                                 management plans within targeted areas at the
                                                 communal level.
                                                 >Strengthencapacity     and accelerate
                                                 coordination among key ministries, institutions
                                                 and other stakeholders to create an enabling
                                                 environment and improved policy and
                                                 institutionalframework for SLM.
                                                 >Build awareness on SLMpolicies and
                                                 programs through workshops at national and
                                                 decentralized levels.
                                                 9Integrate SLMand biodiversity conservation
                                                 considerations (and updated GIs-basedtools
                                                 via component 3, such as databases, maps) into
                                                 land-management planningprocesses.
                                                 ng at the local level
                                                 >Identify and conserve biological diversity
plans                                            critical for sustainable exploitation of agro-
PSupport identification andanalysis of           silvopastoral lands.
revenue increasingmicro-projects                 >Promote public awareness intargeted
>Support to poverty alleviating micro-project    communities regarding land degradation
implementation                                   impacts and SLMgood practices.
>Community training and outreach                 k Setupofparticipatory andconflict-
>Promotion of water management                   management processes among farmers,

                                                   17

Iinfrastructure and soil conservation techniques   pastoralists, other resourceusers and
                                                   community leaders.
                                                    &Produce and disseminatematerials on
                                                   innovative SLMpractices and lessons learned
                                                   (e.g., SLMtechnical sheets, etc.).
                                                    &Promote reliance on native species,
                                                   indigenous knowledgeanduse o f innovative
                                                    SLMtechnologies.
                                                    &Strengthencapacity ofNGOs and local
                                                    implementingagencies andtechnicalagents
                                                   with respect to SLMand land-use planning.

 communication
 >Training to strengthen national coordination
 >Sound                                             &Enhance spatial and temporal monitoringo f
          management o f informationrelated to      land-use changes and linkedenvironmentaland
 project implementation and impacts                 socio-economic impacts.
 >Accounting and financial monitoring               &Improve national M&Esystems for
                                                    analyzing land degradation trends and
                                                   associatedsocio-economic impacts.
                                                    9Support analysesto betterunderstandthe
                                                    costs and benefits of various SLM
                                                    interventions indifferent sub-regional, agro-
                                                    climatic, and socio-economic contexts.
                                                    &Monitor project impacts with respect to land
                                                    degradation andbiodiversity intargeted areas.

 4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedin the projectdesign

 A number o f lessons have been incorporated in the project design. These lessons are from the
 implementation o f the PAPNDP, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the "Biodiversity
 Conservation and Management Project," dated September 11, 2003, and those from other land
 management projects and biodiversity projects (Cameroon, Chad, and Brazil). These are:


 0    Lessonsfrom localdevelopmentinitiativesinCameroon:

 Sustainable managementof agro-silvopastorallands

 The AFD-financed project Eau-Sol-Arbre (ESA), built on initiatives o f the now-closed De`veloppement
 Paysannal et Gestion des Terroirs (DPGT) project in the North and Extreme-North Provinces, has
 capitalized on endogenous experiences with an active participation o f beneficiaries (e.g., densification of
 Faidherbia parks for agro-pastoral objectives). It i s very active in introducing new technology for the
 reduction of soil erosion, improvement o f soil fertility and biodiversity, and in reforestation and
 awareness-raising qn the need for tree-planting. It has also developed and rehabilitatednumerous pastoral
 corridors and established an effective collaborative framework with the Institut de Recherche
 Agronomiquepour le De`veloppement(IRAD) to: (i)evaluate the impact of land management efforts on
 soil erosion, fertility and production; (ii)better integrate biodiversity management in agro-pastoral
 systems; (iii)develop and implement appropriate soil-restoration and water conservation technologies;
 and (iv) increase awareness on the value of tree-products for a more integrated and sustainable
 management of the ecosystem, including indigenous species, such as the gomme arabique (Acacia
 senegal).

 The project Gestion Se`curisde des Espaces Pastoraux (GESEP), active in the Extreme-North, North, and
 Adamaoua Provinces, is funded by the French Cooperation (Service de Coope`ration et d'Actions
                                                      18

Culturelles SCAC) via the Fonds de Solidarite`Prioritaire (FSP). GESEP's objectives are to: (i) the
            -                                                                                       revive
existing conflict resolution commissions in order to ensure land security for pastoralists; (ii)conduct
training on integrated agriculture and livestock production; (iii)     reinforce the capacity in SLM of the
provincial representatives of the MINEPIA; and (iv) promote fruitful dialogue among various natural
resource users. GESEP, in collaboration with the federation of herders in the North Province and
Adamaoua, is actively involved in improving pastoral areas and implementing measures to reverse land
degradation. Possible interventions by the project were identified at pre-appraisal, during exchanges with
the GESEP project team; these include: (i)   promotingthe review of Decree No 78/263 dated September 03,
1978, relative to the creation of Conflict Resolution Commissions, to ensure the inclusion of all
stakeholders, including representatives for the Ministry o f Planning, Development Programming and
Regional Development and the Ministry o f Decentralization; and (ii)    raising-awareness (at the national and
provincial Government levels) for the reinforcement and legitimization o f the authority of traditional chiefs
and an increase in their financial incentives as they play a critical role in mitigating conflict; thereby
decreasing their need to maintain control over landand reinforcingtheir neutrality as well as the credibility
and effectiveness o f traditional conflict resolution mechanisms. Moreover, the team noted the severity of
land degradation, especially in the Lagdo area in the North Province, where interventions are urgently
needed to mitigate the sand filling o f the lake, rehabilitate the surrounding forestry massif, and conserving
the ecosystem.

Other SLMbest practices have been developed and implementedby institutions and projects such as the:
Projet de Ddveloppement du Bassin de la Bdnoue` (PDBB), Mission d'Etude, d'Amdnagement et de
De`veloppement du Nord (MEADEN),Associationpour la Promotion de l'Elevage au Sahel et en Savane
(APESS), Netherlands Development Organization (SNV), International Center for Research in
Agriculture and Forestry (ICRAF), Union des Coop6ratives de Cafd Arabica de 1'Ouest (UCCAO), and
the InternationalInstitute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA).

The proposed Project will establish coordinate with, and build on all these projects' experiences to
mitigate land degradation and promote sustainable landmanagement via the introduction of best practices
andtechnologies, and the implementation of landscapeuse and management plans for agro-silvopastoral
lands. As the GED-funded Project will intervene in the North and Adamaoua, it will seek to develop
mechanisms o f collaboration with all relevant partners present in these provinces (primarily ESA,
GESEP, IRADand MEADEN), and will buildon their experienceswhile avoiding duplication efforts and
intervention in the same areas (Le., communities, watersheds, community forests, protected area
boundaries, bufferzones, andriparian zones).

Community Action Plans. Adequate follow-up after the establishment of community action plans is
necessary for its proper implementation. Without continuing support from qualified technicians and
NGOs, up to half of participating communities encounter serious problems implementing their action
plans. Support is therefore needed to reinforce the participatory process, train community leaders in
financial management, and make administrative arrangements for support from localNGOs with relevant
expertise and/or from local implementingagencies andtechnical agents. The proposed project will benefit
from PAPNDP's multisectoralteam to provide this support.

Community-Driven Projects. Experience has shown that a community driven development (CDD)
approach toward natural resource management is desired by Cameroonians, at the national, provincial,
and local levels. Demand for community-driven projects is extremely high.

Capacity-Building. At the community level, capacity-building must be addressed before transferring
resources to communities. Transferring resources without adequate attention to capacity-building could
exacerbate rent-seeking behavior by local elites. Participatory approaches that empower vulnerable
groups would mitigate this risk. The training o f key stakeholders can be contracted to any operator with
the requiredexpertise(consultant firms, NGOs, research institutions, and/or Government services).


                                                      19

Responsibilities. Local Governments must not be assigned responsibilities that exceed their level o f
competence. Transferring resources to local Governments without clear management procedures,
mechanisms for transparency, and lines o f accountability could lead to rent-capturing by local leadership
or bureaucracy.

Disbursement. Efficiency in disbursement is paramount in acquiring and maintaining local interest and
the dynamism ofcommunity groups.

0   Lessonsfrom the ICR for the Cameroon "Biodiversity Conservationand ManagementProject"

Decentralization. The Government o f Cameroon is fully engaged in a dynamic o f local development,
vowing to disengage from the management of development activities and to increase the active
participation o f local Governments (at the provincial and commune level) and rural communities in the
planning and implementation o f development activities. In a country as diverse in all respects as
Cameroon, decentralization is key for the project to be effective at the local level. Furthermore, one
should note that communities need more control over their land and other natural resources in order to
assume greater responsibilities for planning and management. In keepingthis lesson in mind, the project
will accompany the Government o f Cameroon in its decentralization efforts and inthe adoption of new
decentralization laws (and landscape use and managementplans) that would provide for the management
o f lands by rural communities. The importance of building strong partnerships between Local
Governments (LGs) and Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) is recognized in order to achieve scale
and sustainability o f the operation. The proposed project is in line with PAPNDP's strategy to accompany
the Government in its efforts towards decentralization. Providing the necessaryflexibility in institutional
arrangements to allow for the adaptation to local circumstances will contribute significantly to the
improvements o f results achieved.

Disbursement and Procurement Procedures. A lesson from the Biodiversity Conservation and
Management Project i s the need for disbursement and procurement procedures to be discussed and
adapted incollaboration with all partners at the outset o f program implementation. This will be taken into
account by the proposed project.


0   Lessons from other Countries

Lessonson Success and Sustainabilityfromthe LandManagementI11ProjectinBrazil. The project
will keep inmindthe fact that success and sustainability can only be achieved when full collaboration and
integrationof approaches is achieved betweenthe environmental and agricultural sectors, and will involve
all key Ministries in the preparation and implementation of this project (especially through its Steering
Committee - cf. C.2.). Sustainability of projects that aim at natural resource management is greatly
enhanced if they generate benefits at the level of the individual plots, farms, and also for the community
as whole. Ineffect, communities will not accept the additional costs (intime, money, or effort) imposed
by sound naturalresource management ifthey do not understandthe benefits. Inthe case of this project,
the reversal o f land degradation will lead to improvements in land productivity, which will highly benefit
the communities. In addition, the development of a Conflict Management Framework will be an
additional gain for the communities.

Conservation of natural resources on a sustainable basis requires continuous attention and action on the
part of rural producers. Furthermore, projects that aim at the conservation o f natural resources tend to be
more successful when all stakeholders participate in project preparation and implementation. Ineffect, it
is unrealistic to expect concrete achievement in the domain o f natural resource conservation without
explicit consent and active participation o f local populations. To achieve this, it is necessary to empower
all key stakeholders and to give official recognition to this empowerment (through capacity-building
training and support to the creation o f various local committees to mitigate resource-based conflicts).
Through the development of a Conflict Management Framework, this project will help stakeholders solve
                                                     20

problems inherent in the management of commonly held natural resources. By so doing, the project will
be an important ally to the local communities targeted through the assistance offered inland management
and capacity-building, as well as in negotiation and mediation between different groups, reduction in
conflict, resolution of situations where the interest of the individual is not in accordance with the interest
o f the community or where the interest of herders is in conflict with that of agriculturalists (and vice
versa).

The Niger NaturalResourcesManagementProject. This project demonstrated a solid record of
success and proved that communities have substantial capacity for local development in the area of
natural resources management. In Niger, procedures used in the Community Action Program (e.g.,
community-based procurement procedures) were introduced and implemented after the midterm review
of the Natural Resources Management project in early 2000, and the findings of the Community Action
Program in Benin were confirmed. Since then the procedures have been successfully implementedby all
125 communities inthe project, even with the handicap o f a sparse network o fbank agencies. The project
was rated "satisfactory" across-the-boardupon completion, and the sustainability o f its interventions was
rated as "likely," particularly as a large share o f communities involved in the project indicated their
intention to self-finance micro-projects identified under the program. This is an important precedent,
especially in lighto f the slowly emerging decentralization (laws enactedbut no local elections).

Other Lessons

Vulnerable and MarginalizedGroups. Communities must be organized with a participatory process to
address the development needs of their constituencies, particularly marginalized groups (herders), the
underprivileged, women, and the young, and prioritize these needs at the community level. Without
specific targeting o f and outreach to indigenous communities (inthe case of this project, the Pygmies) and
minority groups (the Mbororos), prior patterns o f marginalization are likely to continue.

Communication.Direct communicationbetween communities and project staff is essential. Staff should
be recruitedlocally, providedthey havethe necessaryexpertise, or befluent inat least one local language.
Project management must be nimbleand close to the beneficiaries (geographically and culturally).

Balancing Trade-offs. Addressing barriers to SLM requires a good understanding o f the trade-offs
between competing land use systems, and the economic returns to the implementation o f various SLM
technologies. These include global environmental benefits, agro-economic production sustainability,
profitability to small holders and employment creation. Lessons in Cameroon will be gleaned from
ongoing research under the GEF-supported "Alternatives to Slash and Burn" Project in better
understanding the optimal trade-offs (see Annex I).

5. Alternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection

5.1 Alternativewithout the proposedGEF-funded project

As discussed indetail insection a, 2.2. and elaborated under the baseline scenario inthe incrementalcost
analysis (Annex 15), in light of the complexity of sustainable land management (SLM) and the fact that
PAPNDP i s focusing mainly on the financing of community and communal micro-projects involving
public services and infrastructure, without GEF funds SLM is not likely to be emphasized enough inthe
elaboration o f local development plans, and the scale and scope o f activities that would specifically
address land degradation would be far too limitedrelative to the magnitude of the problem. Some o f the
main points concerning the value added by GEF and unique character o f GEF-fundedactivities are that:
(i)GEFincrementalfundingwillallowforgreaterawarenessoftheroleofimprovedlandmanagementin
maintaining not only the productive capacity o f the primary sector, but also the associated ecosystem
services and global environmental benefit outcomes; (ii)    GEF incremental fundingcan guarantee a higher
effectiveness and sustainability of PAPNDP baseline interventions, maintaining a balance between
                                                      21

improving rural livelihoods and infrastructure, andprotectionof ecosystemsand landscapes; and (iii)    IDA
and GEF support would act as a catalyst for greater discipline and accountability in project
implementation.It will strengthen the Government'spartnershipwith other donors, mobilize further donor
financing, and provide incremental resources that the country could not otherwise obtain to address
environmentalexternalities.

5.2 Blendedversus stand-alone project

As a stand-alone, the GEF project would have to set up all institutional and organizationalarrangements,
which would delay its implementationbecause of the large number of concerned stakeholders that will
need to be engaged at the national as well as local level. More importantly, due to the relatively low level
of financing available, its impact would be more limited than if it was linked to an on-going national
program.

5.3 Blended with PAPNDP versus supplementing the Forest and Environment Development
     Program(FEDPG)

Although the forestry sector, which is the primary focus of FEDPG, is an important component for SLM,
land management involves significantly larger spatial (watershed, landscape) and cross-sectoral
(agriculture, forestry, water) issues. Moreover, FEDPG's geographic coverage is primarily limited to
interventionsnot critical for landdegradation(South and East Provinces). Finally, FEDPG's institutional
arrangements do not reflect the optimal engagement ofstakeholders implicated in SLMpolicymaking and
its implementation.Accordingly, it was deemedthat the GEF-SLM project would result in greater value-
added outcomes ifit were blendedwith PAPNDP.

5.4 Deferringthe launch of the GEF-funded project until lessons can be learned from PAPNDP's
     implementationwas consideredand rejected

The PAPNDP operation became effective in October 2004. According to the timeline for the proposed
project, the implementationof GEF operations will not take placebefore September 2006; that is almost 2
years after the launching of the PAPNDP. The GEF project will still be able to capitalize from lessons
learned from PAPNDP's implementation. However, by further deferring its implementation, the project
will loose the momentum for replicating and scaling-up best practices from ongoing and past
interventions. Also, in some provinces, the need for SLM intervention is urgently felt due to the critical
status of land degradation, particularly inthe North and Adamaoua. Finally, the project's implementation
will be accelerated by "piggy-backing,' on the current land development planning process initiated in
some of the targetedareas.

5.5 Fully-blendedversus partially blended

Inlightofitsmulti-sectoralnature, theteamagreedtokeepthe PAPNDPprojectas simpleaspossibleso
as to maximize its effectiveness,especially at its start-up phase. Fully-blending an SLMproject to it at an
early stage may compromise its effectiveness. As a partially-blended operation, GEF-funded activities
will complement long-term IDA-initiatives relatedto land degradationand sustainable land management
in local development planning; thereby reinforcing IDA'Scontribution to supporting the basic needs of
local communities and communes. Accordingly, its likelihood of success would be higher. Inaddition,
the GEF project will benefit from: (i)  capacity-building tools; (ii)
                                                                    implementation arrangements between
PAPNDP, key Ministries and the Steering Committee; (iii)expertise within PAPNDP's National
Coordination Unit (NCU); and (iv) additional funding to manage longer-term local, provincial, and
national environmental issues that contribute to the perpetuation of land degradation and rural poverty
within Cameroon.



                                                     22

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements

The proposed project will complement PAPNDP, which enjoys robust, multi-donor support and
cooperation. Sustainable landmanagement (SLM)would appear to be an important element for meetingthe
broader goals of consolidating food security and improving rural livelihoods. Given the linkages between
static poverty and land degradation, there is wisdom in accelerating investments in SLM via a broad,
national community development program such as PAPNDP. Although, the project is not co-financedwith
other donors, the team will develop as necessary close collaboration with institutions involved in SLM
initiatives, especially inthe North and Adamaouaprovinces. PAPNDP's practice of signing Memorandums
of Understanding (MOUs) between the Ministry of Planning, Development Programming and Regional
Development, and other relevant line ministries will be extended to institutions involved in the
implementation o f the GEF project (cf. Section B, 4.1), in order to capitalize on the expertise of these
structures andpromote sustainability.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

Since the GEF project will be partially blended with the PAPNDP, its implementation and execution
arrangements will rely extensively on those of PAPNDP. Accordingly, the Ministry of Planning,
Development Programming and Regional Development shall have institutional responsibility for the
project, and will be the agency accountable to the Government of Cameroon and the World Bank for the
project's proper executionand supervision.This overarchingstructure will increasethe likelihood of project
success, as detailed inAnnex 15 (section on GEF Alternative Scenario). Other intervening structures are as
follows:

Ministries and PAPNDP's Steering Committee. PAPNDP has contractual arrangements with key
concernedministries which are also part of PAPNDP's SteeringCommittee. The GEF project will benefit
from these arrangements, as detailed inthe Project ImplementationManual (PIM). Final decision will be
underthe responsibility of the SteeringCommittee which would also be accountableto ensure: (i)abetter
coordinationbetweenongoing GEF activities, and (ii) policy mainstreaming, as well as training and
                                                      SLM
workshops with concernedimplementing agencies. Inaddition, thematic groups will be set up to review
the annualwork programandbudget, and/or any strategictechnicalissues (for moredetails, see the PIM).
A list of experts, who will participate inthese groups, will be elaboratedby the NCU. The GEF project
will therefore benefit from an integrated approach for promoting SLM; its incremental activities will
benefit from these existing technical, administrative, and management capacities, reinforcing its
credibility in its efforts to promote the mainstreamingof SLM into Government policies. A survey and
assessment of existing institutional, legislative and policy frameworks has led to the formulation of
recommendationsfor subsequent reforms inorder to mainstreamSLMinto developmentpolicies.

PAPNDP's NationalCoordination Unit (NCU). PAPNDP is implementedby a NCU and Provincial
Project Units (PPU). This structure provides a sound basis for ensuring the implementation of GEF
incrementalactivities. For example, the mergedinstitutional set up and monitoring and evaluation system
will facilitate synergies. The NCU would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
project. It was deemednecessary to have the same project unit for the PAPNDP andthe GEF projects as it
would ensure a synergy between the two, facilitate the implementation ofthe GEF project, and strengthen
capacity while avoiding parallel implementationunits.Accordingly, the GEF project will benefitfrom the
pre-existing NCU whose staff has experience in the CDD approach and has received training in
accounting, auditing, procurement, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation. In order to ensure the cost-
effective use of GEF funds and successful implementation of its activities while maintaining the
PAPNDP implementation body as simple as possible, the proposed project will benefit from existing
PAPNDP administrative and financial management units. Inaddition to the existing environmental/land
management specialist, the NCU, will be reinforced by a junior accountant and procurement assistant.

                                                   23

The environmentalAandmanagementspecialist will be a linkbetween the project, the steering committee,
and relevant ministries. The team will be supported by short-term land management consultants, as
needed.

Local Communes and Communities. The project will develop a landscape approach to implement
proposed activities on land degradation. Therefore, apart from communities in micro-sheds, rural
communes are the main beneficiaries of the project's interventions. Individuals in rural communities
within the targeted areas would form community-based organizations, where all stakeholderswould meet
with a self-appointed secretariatto organize meetings, assess their needs, and prepare local development
plans in a participatory manner. Local communities will then submit for approval their proposals for co-
financing micro-investments at the provincial (for communal and inter-communal micro-projects) or
communal (for communities' micro-projects) decision committees set in the GEF priority intervention
areas. For financial mechanisms, refer to Section D.

Other Stakeholders. The proposed project aims to contribute to a sustainable improvement o fthe living
conditions o f the rural populations, inparticular the most underprivileged.Inthis context, management o f
ago-silvopastoral lands presents a major challenge. To ensure that policies and micro-projects contribute
to local sustainable development, local small holders, the private sector, NGOs and community groups are
involved at all stages of project development and implementation. Components focus on stakeholder
needs, targeting capacity strengthening and empowerment for the long-term uptake o f sustainable land-
use practices. Stakeholder groups include: (i) communities, community organizations and producer
                                                local
organizations whose livelihoods depend on agriculture and related production in and around key
ecosystems and who will benefit from capacity building and the application o f sustainable land
management technology packages; (ii)indigenous and minority groups such as the Pygmies and
Mbororos respectively; (iii)NGOs, community organizations, and private sector agencies that will
implementand monitor initiatives; (iv) Government agencies (at the center, provincial and district levels)
that will be engaged duringthe policy analysis, coordination o f the program, and its implementation; and
(v) the related research institutions that will direct the development and delivery of demand driven
researchand extension.

2.1 Manuals,FinancialMechanismsand Arrangements

Manuals. The PAPNDP's Project Implementation Manual (PIM), Monitoring and Evaluation Manual,
and Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual have been complemented to integrate the GEF
activities, and have been reviewed by the Bank during appraisal and will be adopted prior to
effectiveness. The Project Implementation Manual defines institutional arrangements for implementing
the project, inadditionto definingcriteria for selecting project sites ineach ofthe four priority Provinces,
and for eligible micro-projects, which will serve to identify and approve micro-projects. A positive list of
such micro-projects has been prepared and agreed upon with the Government during pre-appraisal, and
adopted duringappraisal. (cf. Table 2 inAnnex 4). A negative list i s available as well.

The overall organization of the project, a detailed configuration of the NCU, the profile of the staff and
theirjob descriptions, as detailed inPAPNDP's PIM, has beenupdated as necessaryand usedfor the GEF
project. The existing Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual contains: (i) description o f
                                                                                        ajob
the accounting and financial staff; (ii) accounting system to be followed; (iii) main transactions'
                                        the                                          the
cycles; (iv) the various operational procedures including budget management (planning, execution, and
monitoring), management o f assets, procurement o f goods and services, and disbursement; and
(v) internalcontrol procedures; it has also beenupdated as necessary.

FinancialMechanisms and Flow of Funds. The GEF project will have one Special Account and four
Second Generation Special Accounts to facilitate the project implementation and reduce the volume of
withdrawal applications. The Government will open one Special Account (SA) in CFA Francs in a
commercialbank interms and conditions acceptableto the Bank. The authorized allocation for SA will be
                                                      24

CFA Francs 300 millions and will cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Detailed description
methods to be used inmakingpayment from the SA have been specified inthe disbursement letter and in
the project's Administrative andFinancialManual(see Annex 7).

Financial ManagementArrangements. The NCU through its financial management and accounting
unit will have the overall responsibility of the project financial management. They will maintain the
project's consolidated budget and accounts. To that end, the GEF Trust fund will be handledthrough the
existing computerized and integrated financial management. The computerized financial management
system is multi-currency and includes the following modules which should be integrated: general
accounting, cost accounting, monitoring and evaluation, assets management, preparation of withdrawal
applications and tracking o f disbursements by donors, reports generating, including quarterly FMR
(Financial Monitoring reports) and annual financial statements. Therefore, the GEF project will be
handled in a separate data base and its specific financial statements will be consolidated for reporting
purpose. Consequently, the existing computerized system will be updated and upgraded to a multi-
projects system. A fully functioning multi - projects financial management system satisfactory to the
Bank is considered as a condition for Grant effectiveness (cf. Annex 7).

FinancialMonitoringReports. On a quarterly basis, the following Financial Monitoring Reports will
be prepared by the NCU and submitted 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter to the Bank.
Financial Reports including a Statement showing inflows by sources and outflows by main expenditure
classifications for the period, and cumulatively (project life); and schedules comparing actual and planned
expenditures. The reports will also include budget forecast for the next quarter. Physical Progress Reports
Procurement Reports (cf. Annex 7).

Auditing. The GEF grant will require the submission of Audited Project Financial Statements to IDA
within six (6) months after year-end. An independent qualified external auditor has been appointed under
PAPNDP on terms of references (TORS) acceptable to IDA. GEF Grant will be audited by the auditor
appointed under PAPNDP and the TORS will be updated accordingly. However the auditor will provide a
separate report with a single opinion on the audited GEF Project Financial Statements incompliance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) will be required including the accuracy and the propriety of
expenditures made under the SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis
for grant disbursements. Inaddition to the audit reports, the external auditors will be expected to prepare a
Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements in accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in the
Grant agreement. The audit scope will be tailored to the project's specific risks, inaccordance with Bank
requirements and agreedupon with the counterpart.

3. Monitoringand evaluation(M&E) of outcomeshesults

The following major outcomes will be achieved by project completion: (i)       sustainable land management
practices have been adopted and implemented by communities through micro-projects; (ii)a
comprehensive policy and institutional framework to support sustainable agro-ecological activities has
been prepared and implemented in a participatory manner; (iii)landlandscape-use planning and
sustainable land management (SLM) principles have been integrated into landscape use planning
processes with the use of GIS databases and maps and landscape use and management plans have been
adopted and implemented at the communal level (within the targeted Provinces); (iv) the capacity and
coordination among key ministrieshave beenstrengthenedto promote sound SLM policies, programs and
guidelines (at the national level); (v) the capacity o f local communities in SLM good practices, and of
NGOs' ability to provide support on micro-projects (at the local level), have been strengthened; and (vi)
project impacts and results have been monitoredand disseminated.

The strategy developed for the project's monitoring and evaluation system is based on the project's
Results Framework (see Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring), and on lessons learned from a

                                                     25

series of Bank-financed natural resource management projects (see Section B. 4). Participation of key
stakeholders will be maximized; they will be involved in the project preparation and implementation
phases. Consolidated M&E reports would be submitted to the Bank and independent mid-term
evaluations will be undertakenby the NCU; recommendationsfrom both sets of reports will provide the
project with feedback to adjust project activities and future interventions; thereby ensuringthe success of
the project's implementation.

4. SustainabilityandReplicability

The sustainability o f the project will be likely with the provision of incremental resources, appropriate
decision-making tools, and capacity-building to beneficiaries. The participatory and community
empowerment process will ensure a high degree of ownership and accountability. The combination of
SLM mainstreaming, including improved cross-sectoral coordination mechanisms for SLM policy
development and implementation, with on the ground results, will generate durable multiple global,
national and local benefits that local actors will strive to maintain. GEF incremental funding will
contributeto preservingthe ecologicaland economicvalue of land incritical areas, ensure that production
is managed in an environmentally sustainable manner, and retard the deterioration and possible break-
down of the functioning of important ecosystem services in priority areas. The reversal of land
degradationtrends will also ultimately lead to an increase in land productivity and an improvement in
food security.

Promotion of greater land security through the adoption and implementation of communal landscape use
and management plans, and training in sound land-use technologies and planning at multiple scales will
help farmers and pastoralists plan with a longer-term perspective. GEF financed activities can also
guarantee a higher effectiveness and sustainability of baseline interventions, maintaining a balance
between improving rural livelihoods and infrastructure, on one hand, and the conservation and
enhancementof ecosystem andenvironmentalbenefits ,on the other hand. The project will strive as much
as possibleto use local knowledge and indigenousspecies to enhance the viability of the agro-ecological
systems. Practical applications by communities and producer groups will be supported in collaboration
with local implementingagencies andtechnical agents.

InstitutionalSustainability.      Given that PAPNDP has adopted a long-term Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) approach, the proposed GEF-supportedoperation will provide the foundation for an SLM policy
and institutional framework and the validation of innovative approaches to leverage the next phases of
APL resources to ensure replication and scaling-up. The timeframe for its implementation (4 years) will
overlap with the first years of PAPNDP implementation. The PAPNDP further creates an enabling
environment for .the sustainability of the proposed project by strengthening the capacity of local
institutions. It will ensure the sustainability of the project benefits. By strengtheningthe community and
commune institutional and operational frameworks, the PAPNDP will increase Cameroon's international
credibility and facilitate the mobilization ofadditionaldonor funds.

Through the PAPNDP, local capacities will be strengthened, thereby allowing the proposed project to
benefit from effective local institutions. The groundwork undertaken by PAPNDP will also be reinforced
by capacity building efforts undertakenby the proposedproject. Ineffect, GEF incrementalfunding will
build capacity and support innovative implementation of SLM best practices in local and communal
development planning, thereby strengthening the overall impact of the PAPNDP. An institutional and
capacity assessment of key concerned agencies will be conducted with the objective of highlighting,
among other things, factors affecting their sustainability, and will help determine means of addressing
them. The capacity andsustainability ofthese institutions will be further strengthenedthroughthe various
training and workshops planned. The Steering Committee would provide the concerned ministries and
other stakeholders with the conceptual, administrative, andtechnical expertise relatedto SLMto scale-up
such initiatives andthus promotegreater sustainabilityof actions undertakenby these institutions.


                                                       26

Replicability. Interventions to be advanced under the GEF pilot operation appear to have a great
potential for replicability. The GEF project will build upon and benefit from the existing multi-donor
cooperation and enabling environment from IDA'S previous and ongoing engagements under the
framework o f the national PAPNDP. GEF incremental activities can thus pilot, validate, and/or replicate
sound approaches to sustainable land management through a vehicle that holds promise for national
coverage and ready potential for scale-up. Inthis way, the benefits and synergies o f the PAPNDP-GEF
operations can be rapidly amplified within a sustainable development framework. An important part of
the replication and continuance of the outputs o f the projects will depend on the capacity of the
institutions in this sector. The project will help the responsible Government bodies to evolve towards a
policy development, advisory and monitoring role and provide strategic directions to the sector while
allowing the private sector, producer groups, communities, local Government and other stakeholders to
undertake direct activities such as natural resource management, investment and marketing. In order to
further ensure the successful replication and continuance of the outputs of the proposed project, an
evaluation o f the success of its implementation and performance indicators will be undertaken duringthe
midtermreview. Based on the results ofthis review and lessons learned, the PAPNDP will scale-up this
operation in its areas o f intervention, under its second and third phases. The project will also assist the
Government o f Cameroon in developing a replication and/or scaling-up plan, which will be updated
duringthe lifetimeo fthe project basedon experiencesand lessons learned.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

The predominant risks are considered as minor to moderate, and should not have a substantial negative
impact on the success of the project. These potential risks that may affect project success and their
respective mitigation measuresincorporated into project design are:

         (i)Conflicts related to land use (including encroachment) might impair a successful
         implementation o f the micro-projects. The implementation o f communal landscape use and
         management plans will occur through a strong participatory approach, which should contribute to
         reducing conflicts. Furthermore, after undertaking discussions with the Government, existing
         Conflict Management Frameworks will be strengthened and new ones will be set up during
         preparation as a tool for proper Project implementation, to address potential conflicts on land use
         between agriculturalists, herders and foresters.

         (ii)Drought as animpedimentto promotingsustainable landmanagement, especially inthe
         Northern Province and Adamaoua. Inorder to address this potential risk, the project will rely on
         lessons learned from other natural resource management projects that have addressed this issue
         successfully inthe sub-Sahelian countries, includingthrough "Rapid Warning System".

The possible controversial aspectsor key barriers for SLM inCameroon, as identifiedby the project team,
are as follows:

         (i)AccesstoeffectivetechnologiesinSLM.Duringthepre-appraisalmission, theprojectteam
         noted that there was a relatively low level o f uptake o f SLMtechnologies and best practices by
         communities, and an apparent gap in technology adaptation and adoption activities by existing
         development projects and research institutions. While providing technical assistance to
         communes and communities in preparing their local development plans and co-financing SLM
         micro-projects (component I), project team will work with existing projects and agencies to
                                         the
         learn about existing technology dissemination experiences and to adapt them for effective
         participatory dissemination of "best bet" environmentally-friendly, SLMpractices.

         (ii) existinglegalframeworkmightbetaintedbytheGovernment's possibleunwillingness
             The
         to implement land reform at the decentralized level. This will be addressed, via component 2,
         through: (a) the development of awareness raising programs, capacity-building tools and

                                                     27

        mechanisms; (b) the review and submission for adoption of legal textddecrees on land tenure
        (and land-use rights); and (c) the Government's (especially the concerned line ministries') close
        involvement inthe project implementation. Also, the main barriers to creating a legal framework
        conducive to proper SLM implementation have been identifiedthrough a Recommendations from
        the "Review of Institutional, Legislative, and Policy Framework Bottlenecks" will be considered
        for proper project implementation.

        (iii)The capacityof implementing agenciesmightbe insufficient to support a successful
        implementation o f SLM micro-projects. A Stakeholder Analysis and Capacity-Building
        Assessment was undertaken in July-August 2005, and has led to recommendations in view of
        developing relevant capacity-building and training for the various stakeholders to be undertaken
        under component 3. Suggestions have been made on how the project can help address existing
        (capacity) gaps at the national level and promote a systematic national agenda for best SLM
        policies and practices through a coordinated and harmonized decision-making process on land-
        use related matters. The study's conclusions have been discussed with the Government during
        appraisal and integrated in the project's preparation and implementation (cf. Section D. 5).
        Linkages with existing national and international partners (e.g. the Consultative Group of
        International Agriculture Research - CGIAR, and their Eco-Regional initiative - EPHTA)
        programs will be developed to strengthen local agency operations.

6. Loanlcreditconditionsand covenants

N o significant, non-standard conditions and covenants are envisioned for project effectiveness. The
Recipient would have updated and adopted, prior to effectiveness, the Project's Manuals to include
arrangements for sound sustainable landmanagement implementation, as agreed with the Bank, and the
financial, accounting, and technical monitoring and evaluation system. The current external auditors'
contract would have been amended to include GEF Grant, prior to effectiveness. In addition, the existing
information system would have been upgraded, and the procedures and implementation manuals would
have beenupdated.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financialanalyses

Economic. The GEF project does not lend itself to cost-benefit analysis: (i)investments to be supported
will be demand-driven, and their nature cannot be known beforehand; (ii) eligible micro-projects,
                                                                              all
while strengthening the agro-silvopastoral sector, would not be directly productive innature; and (iii)the
economic benefits of capacity-building are difficult to quantify. In addition to an incremental cost
analysis which has been prepared (cf. Annex 15), an evaluation of the anticipated economic benefits has
been undertaken(cf. Annex 9).

Financial. The communal as well as the community micro-projects to be supported under the project will
be financed through a matching grant, requiringbeneficiaries' contributions o f at least 10 percent o f the
cost of the micro-project, o f which at least 2 percent will be in cash and the rest in kind (labor, and
material). Provincial Decision Committees and Communal Decision Committees will be responsible for
approving communal and community micro-projects respectively. Once a micro-project is approved by a
Provincial Decision Committee, a financing contract will be signed by the relevant Provincial Project
Unit (PPU) and commune. At this point, funds will be channeled to a communal.bank account specially
set for this purpose. Similarly, a contract would be signed by the relevant PPU, commune, and
community-based organization upon approval by a Communal Decision Committee. Funds will then be
transferred to a bank account set-up by the commune, and community-based organization.



                                                    28

2. Technical

Provincial and Communal Decision Committees will be responsible for reviewingthe technical quality of
micro-project proposals based on criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. A mandatory
clearance of communal and community development plans, as well as micro-projects must be received
from technical ministries, prior to submittingproposals to the Decisions Committees. As members of the
Decision Committees, sectoral ministries will also ensure the soundness o f construction and equipment
related to micro-projects within the normative standards.

3. Fiduciary

Financial and procurement assessments have been conducted. All issues related to financial management
and procurement have been identified and corrective measures have been agreed upon. The overall
project risk for procurement i s considered moderate. However, a series of measures have been agreed
upon, and include the recruitment of the procurement assistant and his training on new guidelines,
procurement record- keeping, and preparation o f a procurement plan. The procurement plan, submitted
prior to negotiations was approved. The project financial management is considered moderate. Financial
management arrangements satisfy the WorId Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP10.02 and
action plan to further improve these arrangements has been agreed upon, including strengthening the
NCU, which already includes an environmental/land management specialist, by recruiting a junior
accountant and procurement assistant. The existing information system will be upgraded, and procedures
and implementationmanuals will be updated.

Furthermore, contracts with beneficiaries, for which templates are appendedto the PIM, will be subject to
micro-project technical audits. These may be ordered and managed either systematically or randomly, by
the NCUor the PPUs. For this purpose, the project may hireoutside firms.

4. Institutional,legaland policy framework for proper SLMimplementation

4.1      LandTenure

Landtenure inCameroon is regulated by both a legal framework and traditional mechanisms. This legal
framework is composed of: (i)   Laws No. 80/22 (dated July 14, 1980), No. 19 (dated November 26, 1983),
and Law No. 85/009 (dated July 04, 1985); (ii)      Ordonnances No. 74-1, 74-2 (dated July 6 1974); and
(iii)DecreesNo. 76/165, 761166, 76/167 (dated April 27, 1976), No. 78/263 (dated September 03, 1978),
as well as other relevant decree applications. Their implementation is jeopardized due to insufficient
coordination, resulting in land insecurity. In effect, most farmers are not legal land owners as land is
sometimes rentedon a yearly basis. Insome provinces (North and Adamaoua), it can be seized without
warning by the chief or declared a protected-area by ministerial decree without pre-consensus from local
authorities and stakeholders. This land insecurity leads to the lack of, or insufficient, investment in land
management.

Furthermore, in the absence of or non-respect of zoning plans, there is greater competition for natural
resources as poor land management practices, coupled with a rising population, lead to landdegradation
and an increased migration from the Extreme-North to the North and Adamaoua provinces. They
encroach on forest reserves and areas traditionally designed as pastoral lands, is exacerbating the potential
for conflicts among farmers, herders, and foresters. This phenomenon is also prevalent in the West and
Center Provinces, albeit to a lesser degree.

The needto address the issues relatedto the implementation o fthe legal and traditional frameworks and
secure land users rights is therefore strongly felt in Cameroon. Although the proposed GEF project does
not intendto resolve the far-too-complex issue o f land tenure, it will contribute to improving the existing
mechanism for landlandscape-use planning and agro-silvopastoral-               pastoral conflict on land

                                                     29

management. These issues were extensively discussed and potential solutions identified during the pre-
appraisal mission have been integrated inthe project's ImplementationManual. The project will build on
these potential solutions as well as upon key findings and recommendations from the PDF-B financed
"Review of Institutional, Legislative, and Policy Frameworks Bottlenecks for proper SLM
Implementation" which have been shared with the counterpart during the upcoming appraisal mission,
including promoting the: (i)provision of rights to those who rent land and increasethe term for leasing;
(ii) legitimization o f elaborated communal landscape use and management plans, through the adoption o f
support decrees; and (iii)improved effectiveness of the existing Land Tenure Commission (i.e.,
Commission Consultative Foncibe) and Commissions on the modalities for resolving ago-pastoral
conflicts (i.e., Commission Consultative de RBglement des Conflits Ago-Pastoraux), which are further
discussedinthe section below, as well as other relevant Commissions.

4.2       Traditional conflict managementmechanisms

The project team found that inthe North and Adamaoua Provinces, at the village and inter-village level,
traditional power is organized by sector (agriculture, herding, land, and administration) for the
management o f potential conflicts. To this effect, consensual tools for the land management have been
developed and are being implemented; these include marking the limits o f pastoral lands as well as paths
to be used by migration herds, and the enforcement o f penalties, such as confiscation of herd, destruction
of farmed plots, to those who disregardthe agreed upon rules.

4.3       PrefectoralConsultation and landuse litigationcommissions

Legal structures in charge of implementing the existing legal framework on land tenure are: (i)       Land
Tenure Commissions (i.e., Commission Consultative FonciBre) set at the prefectoral level in accordance
with Article 16 of Ordonnance 74-1 dated July 06, 1974, and further defined under Law No. 19 dated
November 26, 1983; and (ii)Commissions on the modalities for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts
(i.e., CommissionConsultative de RBglement des Conflits Agro-Pastoraux), set at the prefectoral level in
accordance with the Decree No. 78/263 dated September03, 1978.

The main objectives of the Land Tenure Commissions are to: (i)make recommendations to the
prefectoral authority on the delimitation of the rural space into agricultural and herdinggrazing areas;
(ii)  examine and solve conflicts related to obtaining land tenure titles on PublicDomain Property
currently occupied/exploiters by farmers or herders; and, (iii)  take note o f sustainable land management
practices adopted with the objective of securing land tenure titles. It is composed of: (i)the sous-prkfit or
chief of district (president o f the commission); (ii)
                                                     the representatives at the departmental level for the
concerned technical services (PublicDomain Property/, land tenurekadastre, urban development if
relevant); (iii)a representative o f the Ministry concerned at the time; (iv) the traditional chief and two
elites. The Commissions convene at least once per trimester; and convocations are sent by its President at
 least 10 days prior to the meeting.

The mandate of the Commissions for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts is to: (i)organize all rural space
 into agricultural and herdinggrazing areas, based on the needs o f the population and development
constraints; (ii) define the usage mode for areas with mixedpurposes, while taking into account climatic
conditions, farming cycles, and the possibility o f alternation farminggrazing practices; and (iii)   solve
agro-pastoral land-use conflicts. These commissions are composed of: (i)        the sous-prkfet or chief of
 district (president of the commission); (ii)
                                            the representatives at the departmental level for the concerned
technical services (Land tenurekadastre, agriculture, livestock); (iii)the traditional chieftaincy; and
 (iv) local representatives of herders. The secretariat of the commission is under the auspices of the
Ministry charged with land tenure. Specific members of each commission are nominated on a yearly
 basis.



                                                    30

Shortcomings in the administrative process o f these commissions (slow nomination o f its members, lack
of regular meetings, poor knowledge at the communal and community levels of its existence), coupled
with its decisions often beingcontested (herders often being sanctioned not always because they are the
faulty party but because they are financially better equipped than the farmer to pay the resulting fine),
have resulted in conflicts being essentially addressed through the above-mentioned traditional
mechanisms for agro-pastoral conflict management. During the pre-appraisal mission, the team was
informed that although provisions had beenmade inthe budget of the Ministryincharge o f land tenure to
facilitate the functioning of these commissions, such funds had not yet been made available; thereby
further hamperingthe effectiveness ofthese entities.

The "Review o f Institutional, Legislative, and Policy Frameworks Bottlenecks for proper SLM
Implementation" highlightedthe existence of other commissions to be involved inthe process o f creating
an enabling environment for SLM, namely: (i)the Comission Nationale Consultative pour
I'Environnement et le Ddveloppement Durable (CNCEDD) created with Decree No. 941259 dated May
31, 1994; (ii)the Comitd Interministdriel de 1'Environnement established by Decree No. 2001/718/PM
dated September 03, 2001; and (iii)    the Comitd de pilotage chargd de l'appui et du suivi de la mise en
oeuvre de la stratkgie de ddveloppement du secteur rural, created with Decree No. 044/CAB/PM dated
August 02,2004.

For proposed measuresto be undertaken, pleaserefer to text on sub-component 2.1 in Section B.

5. Social

Detailed Stakeholder Analysis.The GEF project has carried out with PDF fund a "Detailed Stakeholder
Analysis, Capacity Assessment" study, both at national and local levels. In addition to addressing
development issues inthe project's intervention area, this study addresses relations between the Mbororos
or Pygmies, and other sedentary groups; as well as issues related to the Pygmy populations inthe project
area through the implementationof Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP). It analyzes the overall
situation in the project area, and then carries out a participatory diagnostic in which to place PAPNDP
planned activities. This approach includes an assessment o f individuals' motives, concerns, visions and
interests within the group as well as towards external groups. Conflict analysis between groups and
individuals as well as the degree of cooperation among them are part of the assessment. The Study makes
specific recommendations for building the capacity o f each concerned group (Pygmies, Mbororos,
Commissions, local development agents, NGOs. Farmers, herderslgrazers, etc.), which will be n
incorporated into the Sustainable Agro-Pastoral and Land Management Promotion project under the
Community Development Support Program (PAPNDP). In addition, it suggests, at the national level:
(i) calling-up, as necessary, experts from concerned Ministries and institutions, which will provide
technical advice on project implementation; and (ii)  collaboration with national research institutes for the
dissemination o f technical sheets on SLM best practices. At the local level, the main recommendation is
to reinforce the capacity of existing Commissions to enable them to play more o f a preventive role in
 land-use conflicts, rather than mostly a resolving one.

To get a better understanding o f what the stakes are on the ground, the pre-appraisal mission and the
consultants incharge of the studies discussed ina participatory manner the main sources o f conflicts with
various stakeholders in Cameroon. It appears that the main reasons for conflicts revolve around current
 land use patterns and a lack o f sound policies, rules and regulations that would allow for the effective
management o f conflicts as they arise. In addition, although the legal framework exists, there i s a lack o f
 both human capacity and communication mechanisms/tools to implement them in a more participatory
 and sustainable fashion. For example, prior to 1970, the national Government decided as part o f its five-
year-planning exercise, to devote the North Province to wildlife conservation, and agreed to the
 establishment of three parks and 20 huntingreserves. Since then, the climatic conditions inthe Extreme
North Province changed dramatically, and were coupled with a rapid population growth and increase in
 labor demand for the culture of cotton; causing its farmers to move to the North Province in search o f
                                                      31

better access to natural resources, particularly better agricultural soils and grazing areas for their animals.
As a consequence, agricultural production has become the main activity in the North Province, thus
leading to conflicts between farmers and the Mbororos who had been usingthe same landas pastures for
their livestock herds. While the national Government has recognized this shift in its planning exercises,
existing policies, rules and regulations are not efficient enough to allow for a settlement o f conflicts. The
results of the stakeholder analysis provide the elements o f an effective conflict management and
resolution framework for the GEF project.

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP). The IPDP notes, among other things, that from the
legal point of view, the Indigenous Peoples (IPS)(in total around 30,000 individuals gathered in and
around 300 settlements, and in 33 councils) are citizens equal to a11other people born in Cameroon, but
they have neither the same political influence, civil andlegalstatus, organizational, technical or economic
capacity as other groups in Cameroon. The Baka, Kola and Aka Pygmies, who formerly ranged over
broad areas of uninterruptedforest as full-time hunters and foragers, have increasingly beenconstricted to
areas with home "bases" involving agriculture and outlying areas where some huntingand gathering is
still practiced, though with a technology that is different from the traditional net hunting. The former
interdependence with village agriculturists - where the Baka, Kola and Aka supply village labor during
the huntingoff-season, and villagers rely on Pygmy production of meat and forest products from the wild
- has become a situation of increased dependence of Pygmies on villagers for cash income, work, and a
few Government-derived social services.

The plan further identifies a number o f risks the Pygmies could face as a result o f the implementationof
PAPNDP, if left unattended. Such risks could include further marginalization in Cameroonian society;
fewer Government services; loss of control over land traditionally used by the Pygmies as a source of
livelihood and basis for their cultural and social system; less access to education especially for their
children (social discrimination and sexual violence towards young Pygmy girls), health infrastructure and
clean water; and less income from agricultural production. The plan makes specific recommendations
designed to mitigate such potential risks. In an effort to implement the recommendations o f the IPDP,
consultants have beenhiredunder PAPNDP to carry out a study that will focus on:

         (a) Awareness raising among Pygmies, Government officials, traditional authorities, technical
         and administrative services, as well as the global civil society to enable them to implement the
         IPDP; for example, the consultant will develop a method for the co-financing o f identity cards
         and birth certificates on part o f the Pygmies, and identify particular training needs among
         Pygmies and Bantus; one o f the outcomes o f this part o f the study will be improved confidence
         among the Pygmies to negotiate with those who are trying to use their lands (especially Bantus),
         and to address health issues.

         (b) Socio-economic and cultural circumstances o f the Pygmies; for example, the consultant will
         study the production system of Pygmies; the importance of forests and their location; and
         mechanisms for conflict management and resolution; one o fthe outcomes o fthis part o fthe study
         will be concrete procedures for the establishment of land tenure and villages for Pygmies as well
         as the designation of chiefs.

         (c) Issuanceof birthcertificates and identity cards andprovision o f relatedtraining for the various
         participants in this process; for example, the consultant will make the necessary contacts and
         assist the Pygmies in obtaining such documents; the result of this work would be that Pygmies
         will have access to Government services; the dependence o f Pygmieson other ethnic groups will
         progressively decline; and the Pygmies will be able to retain their cultural and social identity and
         pass it on to the next generations.

         (d) Preparation o f local and communal development plans, and subsequent implementation of
         micro-projects; for example, the consultant will assist with the preparation of: (i)local

                                                      32

         development plans specifically for Pygmy communities; (ii)    micro-projects that will address both
         the concerns and needs of Pygmies and requests for their financing; (iii)support for
         environmental and social management of micro-projects in the context o f the ESMF; and (iv)
         support for participatory monitoring o f project results, including the outcome of micro-projects;
         the result of this work will be, among other things, the existence of development plans for
         Pygmies, andthe implementationof micro-projects that meet the needs of Pygmies.

Thus, the proposed Project will benefit from the results of this study, particularly with regard to (i)  the
environmental and social management of micro-projects which are likely to include measures for
sustainable land management; (ii)     mechanisms for sustainable conflict management and resolution; (iii)
concrete procedures for the establishment o f land tenure and the foundation o f villages; and (iv) training
of officials to ensure their effective interaction with IPS.

With regards to the Mbororos, which are found inthe North, Adamaoua and West Provinces, the project
will ensure that they receive the same benefits as the Pygmies within the intervention zone, and will take
into account specific recommendations.

6. Environment

The Sustainable Agro-Pastoral and Land Management Promotion under the Community Development
Program Support Project (PAPNDP) Project will complement the implementation of PAPNDP's micro-
projects through SLM practices such as ecologically sound water management, conservation tillage,
windbreaks, and the renewal of degraded hillsides and pastures. PAPNDP's micro-projects are expected
to focus on collective public service infrastructures, public commercial equipment, and management o f
natural resources. The micro-projects will be identified and implementedby communes and community-
based organizations, including Pygmies and Mbororos to the extent that they are present at the project
sites. Criteria for the selection of sites and micro-projects are included in the Project Implementation
Manual being completed.

The Project will apply PAPNDP's Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) dated
June 2003. This document is based on the existing international and national legislative framework; e.g.,
among others, Law No. 96/12 dated August 5, 1996. The ESMF outlines an environmental and social
screening process for micro-projects, provides guidance regarding the identification, implementation and
monitoring of mitigation measures, the need for separate environmental assessments, and outlines
institutional arrangementsas well as cost estimates for the effective implementation of the ESMF.

The ESMF is designedto assess potential negative environmental and social impacts o f micro-projects,
and, based on the screening results, to develop mitigation measures designed to introduce and expand
sustainable land management practices such as ecologically sound water management, conservation
tillage, windbreaks, and the renewal o f degraded hillsides and pastures. The screening results will further
identifythe need for environmental community projects which would benefit significantly from the GEF
project's support. The ESMF will be applied in conjunction with criteria for the selection of sites and
micro-projects currently under preparation.

7. Safeguard policies

The safeguardscreening category for the proposedProject is S2 andthe environmental screening category
is B. Since it will complement activities under PAPNDP, the Project has triggered OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment and OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples due to the potential negative environmental
and social impacts of future micro-projects. OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement has not been triggered
because none of the Project activities will involve land acquisition. To ensure effective participation o f
the Pygmies in the planning and implementation of micro-projects and the development of related


                                                       33

sustainable land management practices, the Project will support training activities as recommended in
PAPNDP's Indigenous PeoplesPlan(June 2003).

As required by the Bank's disclosure policy, both documents, the ESMF (June 2003) and the IPDP will
be re-disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop, prior to appraisal (specifically, on August 24, 2005). The
Government o f Cameroon has approved and disclosedthese documents on June 19, 2003, and does not
requiretheir re-disclosure.

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                             Yes               No
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                [X 1
                                                                         . -                 [l
                                                                                             _ _
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                            [ I              [XI
 PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                  [ I              E[XXI1
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                    [I
 Involuntary Resettlement(OPBP 4.12)                                      [ I              [ XI
 IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                     [XI
 Forests(OPBP 4.36)                                                       [ I              E 11
                                                                                             XI
 Safety ofDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                               [ I                XI
 ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                  11               [X 1
 Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                       E l              [XI

8. Policy Exceptions and Readiness.

No exceptionis foreseenfor the Project.




                                                  34

           ANNEX 1:COUNTRYAND SECTORORPROGRAMBACKGROUND

Cameroon a country o f 475,440 square kilometers with a population o f 16.38 million people has been
experiencing faster growth since 1996. To sustain its stable macro-economic framework, the Government
has set clear macro-economic objectives for the country: (i)    maintaining robust GDP growth, (ii)
                                                                                                  keeping
inflation below 2 percent per year and (iii)    keepingcurrent deficit below 3-3.5 percent o f GDP. As the
agricultural sector is the backbone o f the Cameroonian economy, with agro-silvopastoral activities
accounting for slightly over half of GNP and occupying about two-thirds o f the working population, the
Government intends to rely on the development o f its rural sector to support its mid-term macro-
economic objectives. As poverty i s more pronounced inrural areas (55 percent o f the total population vs.
86 percent of the ruralpopulation), principally among smallholders who are highlydependent on the land,
the development o f Cameroon's rural sector will be a critical tool to reduce poverty. The incidence of
poverty i s highest for households headed by farmers (57 percent) and agricultural wage earners (50
percent). The most important cash crops in Cameroon are cotton and coffee and the major subsistence
crops are roots, tubers, plantain, millet and sorghum. Livestock also represents an important part o f food
supply.

The country can be divided into ten (10) great ecological areas within four (4) ecological units
characterized by their vegetation and geographical position, as well as climatic variations (see table
below). They show quasi-common characteristics concerning protection, management and development
o fthe landresources.



 Ecological Zone        Major Ecological Region                           Provinces        Relative
                                                                                           Percent (YO)
                        Mountainso fMandara                               Extreme-North    25
  Sahelo-SudanianZone Plains ofthe ExtremeNorth                           Extreme-North    75
                                                                          North*           8
                        BBnouC Valley                                     North*           92
                        SavannahofHighAdamaoua                            Adamaoua"        92
                        Central and EasternSavannah                       Centre           50
                                                                          East             38
                                                                          Adamaoua*         8
   Savannah             Tikar Plains                                      Centre*
                                                                          North-West       121
                                                                          West*             10
                        HighPlains o fWest andNorth-West                  North-West        52
                                                                          West              90
                        DegradedForestsofthe Central-Littoral             Centre*           14
                                                                          Littoral          20
  Tropical Forest                                                         Centre*           31
                        Dense, tropical forests of the Southeastand East  East              62
                                                                          North-West        27
                                                                          South             97
                                                                          Littoral          80
 ~~




   CoastaVMaritime      Maritime Coast                                    South
                                                                             - .....        3
                                                                            ~




 * Provincesto betargetedby GEF interventions.




                                                        35

                               Map 1.EnvironmentalConstraints




         Low soil suitability

         Erratic rainfall and cold stress risk

         Steep slopes and mountains

         Severe and very severe land degradation

         Low to medium climatic production potential

         High climatic production potential

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITEDNATIONS, Country Profilesand MappingInformationSystem,
Cameroon. 2005

Land degradation is occurring in advanced stages across many areas o f Cameroon and represents a
fundamental challenge for the development of Cameroon's rural sector. Food insecurity is chronic inthe

                                               36

Sudano-Sahelian zone as well as in the Western zone, a phenomenon closely intertwined with
unsustainable utilization o f the land. Inthe Northern region (Northern and Adamaoua Provinces) land
degradation i s increasingly visible, and its main causes are high pressure on land and inefficient land use
and management (such as overgrazing and slash-and-burn practices) at the communal level as well as at
the regional level. Many conflicts occur between land users, especially betweenfarmers and pastoralists.                                       .
The livestock of the Adamaoua province is increasingly confined to a limited area on the Adamaoua
plateau, giving rise to conflicts, overgrazing, and soil degradation. Inthe Western Province, deforestation
and overgrazing (in the Bamboutos highlands), intensive and detrimental farming practices, and
destruction o f 'sacred forests' linked to high demographic pressure and conflicts between land users
represent the main root causes of land degradation inthe Western region. Inthe Central Province, slash-
and-burn agriculture is the predominant practice, leading to high rates of deforestation and loss in soil
fertility.

The following table demonstratessome of the researchinto the trade-offs inbenefits of different land-use
systems ina research pilot site inCameroon under the "Alternatives to Slashand Burn" project.

ASB Summary Matrix for the Cameroon Benchmark site (adaptedtom Gockowsri et al., 2001; KottPSame et al, 2ooO; Gillison, 2ooO; Hainahet al).




                         ERNS                                                                              PTABlLlTY BY SMALLHOLDERS

                          _-
                           Biodiversity
                              .-,-",I"




                          Abovegmund
           tuba (time        (plants)
           averaged)a     #speciesper
I                         standad plot
                           ^ X     ~




lOil palm I
                               nm

tExtensim"I"      "--    ^ ^  I I.




                               63



                               63
                               53


                            . ~63. , ~ " " ,

Government's r iraldevel Ipmentstrategy




                                                                       37

Within its rural development strategy Cameroon has identified four priority challenges to be tackled to
promote rural sector growth: (i)poverty, (ii)food insecurity, (iii)poor market integration, and
(iv) unsustainable utilization of natural resources. Consequently, the Government o f Cameroon has
recognized the following axes of interventionfor its rural development strategy:


    0   Modernizing.the aaicultural production apparatus is crucial, as demographic growth is sustained
                      -
        inCameroon with a rate of2.8 percent and 4.2 percent inurban areas andthe actual production
        of food crops is insufficient to cover the food needs o f part o f the population. This intervention
        will involve addressing the issue of land tenure, ensuring access to water and resources (labor,
        capital, etc.), as well as promoting the use o f innovative technology. By addressing the issue of
        land tenure, the Government will create an environment encouraging farmers to invest in land,
        protect against erosion andmaintainsoil fertility.


     0  Inorder to ensureanenabling environment to facilitate the developmentofthe agriculturalsector
        as well as the delivery o f public services, the intervention will restructure the institutional
        framework by improvingthe capacity and effectiveness o fthe public sector and key stakeholders,
        promoting the responsibility and dynamism of local communities, and seeking contractual
        relationships with local NGOs. The restructured framework of the agricultural sector will ensure
        that: (i) state fully implements legislation and policies; (ii) state provides public services
                  the                                                     the
        rather than delegating; (iii)  professional rural organizations and inter-professional organizations
        are the cornerstone of rural development; and (iv) the state collaborates with NGOs in their
        actions toward strengthening the capacity of communities for enhancing communities creation
        and participation insocio-economic activities.


     0  Creating. a legal and economic environment conducive to rural development i s crucial to
        improving: (i)    the efficiency of agricultural inputs market, (ii)the legal framework o f rural
        organizations, (iii) access to financial markets and (iv) access to markets. It will be elaborated by
         supporting access to information and markets, renewed legislative and regulatory framework,
         access to financial markets and the development rural infrastructures. The implementation o f the
         above measures will also be of utmost significance to enhancing the development o f private
         initiatives inthe rural sector.


     0   The promotion of sustainable management o f natural resources will be encouraged by: (i)
         coordinating the management o f renewable natural resources, involving all relevant national
         administration and key stakeholders; (ii) restoringand safeguarding production potential; and (iii)
         ensuringreliable local management of rural community infrastructures. The above measures will
         have a focus on protecting soil fertility, as well as the conservation o f water resources, land
         pasturesand biodiversity

A National Action Plan (NAP) is being drafted (to be finalized in June 2006) in Cameroon and will
underline the Government's priorities in terms o f sustainable resources management. Initial steps and
accomplishments are already outlined inthe 1999 Progress Report on NAP Development to the UNCCD
Secretariat, includingthe inauguration o f an Inter-Ministerial Committee to address landdegradation. The
Progress Report also draws attention to the loss o f vegetative cover and the increased level of
desertification and explores the possibility o f monitoringthe effects of droughts.




                                                      38

   ANNEX 2: MAJOR RELATED PROJECTSFINANCED BY THE BANKAND/OR
                                      OTHER AGENCIES

Linkaeesto other majorprojectsinCameroonfinancedby the Bankand/or other donors
                                                                        Latest Supervision
                              Project                                I(PSR)   Ratings
                                                                       1 (Bank-financedprojects only)
                                                                         Implementation Progress(IP)
                                                                                        I




                                                   heralcommunities;


                              BamendaHighlands
 UNDP                         PromotingCommunity-based                   NIA
                              ConservationofGlobally Significant
                              Biodiversity inPriority Forest Sites
                              within CameroonMountainRange
 UNDP                         PrivateSectorIGEFCo-financingo f           NIA
                              GlobalWarmingMitigation inCameroon
                              through Biomass Conservation,
                              Restoration
 UNEP                         Supportto the Implementationo fthe         NIA
                              NationalBiosafetyFrameworkfor
                              Cameroon
I DFIDKJNDPIGEF             II Cameroonecosystem
                               Supportto CAMCOF for Mount               I S                            I
 FEDECIWWFIWCS              I Support   to Campo Ma'an and Mbam &       I S
                              Djerem
 USAIDICongoBasinForest        Support SanghaTri-National andto Dja- S
 PartnershiprWWF              Nki-Ngoila Mintoum tri-national
                               initiative with GabonandCongo
 UNDP/GEF/WCS                 Support for BayangMbo (MSP wl WCS) S
 WWF                          Supportto various PAS,Lobeke, Boumba HS
                              Bek,Nki,Korup, BBnouC,Ebo&
                              Nlonako.KUDB
  SCAC                        GarouaWildlife & PA school                 U
 KFW & GTZ (Germanagencies)   Technical Assistance                        HS
 AFD                          Eau-Sol-Arbre(ESA)                         NIA
 AFDJFFEMEuropean Union        Support to Bouba-Njida& Faro (Project      Ongoing
                              West Benoue)




                                                 39

Linkages

The proposed GEF project will collaborate with the following projects inCameroon andthe sub-region:

      (i)The Forest and Environment Development Program (FEDPG). While focusing on
          sustainable forest management, lessons can be drawn from this project's earlier experiences
          with implementation issues,      including those such as: managing participation and
          collaboration processes with key actors, disseminating information and awareness-raising
          strategies, developing knowledge management systems as a vehicle for transferring positive
          experience and lessons, fostering partnerships, and preparing a successful replication plan.
          The projects will coordinate on the development of an annual work program and common
          supervision missions. Regular meetings of the local management staff will be convened in
          order to harmonize interventionstrategies and coordinate with other GEF projects.

      (ii)the Project `ReversingLandandWaterDegradationTrendsintheNigerRiverBasin'and
          The
               proposed GEF project are complementary by virtue of the fact that sustainable land
          management in Cameroon would contribute to stabilizing sediment storage and release inthe
          Niger RiverBasinandassociatedmicro-watersheds.

      (iii)TheProject `Reversalof Land and Water Degradation Trendsin the Lake ChadBasin
          Ecosystem' Similar to the Niger River Basin project, the Lake Chad Basin project and the
          proposed GEF project are complementary, giventhat successful water resourcesmanagement
          depends on good land management practices. The Lake Chad Basin Commission, composed
           of Cameroon, the Central African Republic (CAR), Chad, Niger, Nigeria, and Sudan, will be
          regularly informed ofthe implementationofthe proposed project through Progress Reports to
           be regularly transmitted.
      (iv) The project will build on ongoing experience in SLMborne through the pilot activities of the
          Projects `De`veloppementPaysannal et Gestion des Terroirs (DPGT) ' and `Eau-Sol-Arbre
           (ESA) in the Northern province o f Cameroon, which were supported by a common donor,
           Coope`rationFrangaise. The DPGT project has closed, and the ESA project will be achieved
           in June 2006. The PAPNDP-GEF project will work closely with the ESA project team to
           improve coordinationand the implementationo f all GEF incremental activities, buildon their
           experience, and support up-scaling o ftheir activities in SLM.

      (v)  The proposed project will also work incoordination with the Japan Social Development Fund
           (JSDF) Grant Project `StrengtheningResources Assessment and Management Base of Rural
           Communities in Cameroon'as they both are under the umbrella o f the PAPNDP. The overall
           development objective of the JSDF project is the management and sustainable use by the
           rural communities o f their natural resource-base, in particular Non-Timber Forest Products
           (NTPF) (especially medicinal plants), sacred forests and traditionally protected species.
           Medicinal plants have an important role to play in land rehabilitation since many species
           contribute to improving soil fertility through their ability to fix nitrogen. Both projects will
           contribute to income security and poverty reduction through sustainable management of
           environmental resources.




                                                   40

                   ANNEX 3: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING


1.       Result framework

The development objective o f the project is to contribute to combating land degradation in critical areas.
This is to be achieved through the adoption of SLM best practices and the development o f adequate
capacity, tools, and mechanisms by communities, thereby improving land productivity in critical areas.
The beneficiaries will include MINEP, MINADER field agents, councils, rural community-based
organization, including traditional, local authorities, small farmers, herders and other resource users,
NGOs, rural development stakeholders, indigenous people (Pygmies) and vulnerable groups (the
Mbororos). The project will use GEF funds to supplement IDA financing and would lead to incremental
benefits   from sustainable land management in priority areas designated under the project. Its strategy
includes supporting local development through micro-projects and creating an institutional support for
enabling environment for SLM through support to the land reform process and enhanced capacity
buildingat the local level.

The indicators selected for this project are the result o f a Baseline Study conducted in July-August 2005,
and will enable the project to assess its impact on: (i)sustainable land management; (ii)other
environmental benefits       such as biodiversity conservation; (iii)stakeholders'            livelihood; and
(iv) community-based organizations and communes. Baseline data collected highlightsthe specificity o f
each of the targeted Provinces, and this informationwill be used by the project duringits implementation.

Table 1-Results Framework 2 d Monitoring:
               PDO                Project OutcomeIndicators                     Use of Project Outcome
                                                                                Information
FDO-                              Rural communities havedeveloped               YO2 gauge engagement of rural
Enable communitiesto contribute   participatory integratedland and water        communities and communesin
to combating land degradationin   management plansthat havepositive impacts     the project; reevaluatestrategy
critical areas.                   on native biodiversity and carbon             ifless than25,000 haareunder
                                  sequestration, as demonstratedbythe           SLMpracticesinproject areas
                                  increasednumber ofhectares under SLMand       by the mi-termreview.
                                  soil conservationpracticesthat reduce soil
                                  andwater runoff and erosion.                  YO4 determinewhether new
                                                                                practicesand technologies
                                  Enhanceduptakeofadopted SLM"best bet"         introduced, as well as conflict
                                  practicesas determinedby the baseline         managementand resolution
                                  survey and results from the GEF-funded        mechanismsimplemented are
                                  work on Alternatives to Slash and Burn(e.g.   effective ininducing
                                  10% more area under SLMby mid-term and        communities and communesto
                                  20% by project end).                          combat land degradationand
                                                                                adopt SLMpractices; re-
                                                                                evaluateGovernment's strategy
                                                                                (replication plan)to ensure
                                                                                scaling-up ofpractices.
GEF OperationalGoal:              - Increaseofvegetativecover, as measured      YO2 evaluatethe project's
Enhancethe sustainable land and   by NormalizedDifferential Vegetation Index    implementation strategy ifthe
naturalresourcemanagement         (NDVI), by at least 10,000 ha by the midterm increase invegetative cover is
components ofthe PAPNDP           review.                                       less than 10,000 ha bythe
project by complementingthe       - Increaseof  vegetativecover by at least     midtermreview.
local and national benefitsof             haby project end.
SLMwithkeyglobalbenefits.         -25,000
                                    Visible increase inbiodiversityinper unit
                                  plot inGEF site vs. control group through the
                                  reappearance ofnew species (particularly in
                                  dry lands and semi arid sites).

                                                      41

 Intermediate Outcomes            IntermediateOutcome Indicators                 Use of Intermediate Outcome
                                                                                 Monitoring

 Component 1.Enhancingthe         - Financeand implement20 communal
 integration o f SLM into local   micro-projects and 60 community micro-
 development                      projectsby the midterm review.
                                  - Financeand    implement 60 communal
                                  micro-projects and 150 community micro-
                                  projectsbythe project end.

 Promote improved land fertility. - Improved land fertility by the end of        YO3 evaluate the impact of
                                  project: (i) pH-H20is maintainedbetween:       introducedSLMtechnologies
                                   5.5 and 8.8 inthe North; 5.5 and 6.3 in       indpracticeson land fertility.
                                  Adamaoua; 4.4 and 6.3 inthe West; and 5.2      YO4 incorporateresults and
                                  and 6.5 inthe Center; (ii)   Available P205is  recommendationsin
                                  increasedfrom: 0.2 to 30 mg/kg (ppm) inthe     Government'sreplication plan.
                                  North;3.5 to 24 mg/kg (ppm) inthe West; 0.1
                                  to 12 mg/kg (ppm) inthe Center; and; 1.5 to
                                   15 mgkg (ppm inAdamaoua;
                                  (iii)ExchangeableAi3' rate maintained .
                                  below 10%inthe Centre and the West, (iv)
                                  organic carbonrate maintainedbetween 3
                                  and 24 gkg inthe northern provinces;
                                   between22.2 and 38.7 gkg inthe
                                  Adamaoua; between 12 and 78.4 inthe
                                  westernprovince; between 14.4 and 40.4 in
                                  the Centerprovince; (v) Decreasederosion
                                  rate (runoff coefficient) under 50% by the
                                  project end.
I
 Promotebiodiversity               - At least 3 community forests protectedby    YO3 evaluatethe impact of
 conservation.                     project end.
                                   - At                                          introduced SLMtechnologies
                                        least 25,000 ha are under SLMand soil    and practiceson biodiversity
                                   conservationpracticesthat reducesoil and      conservation.
                                  water runoffand erosion, bythe midterm         YO4 incorporateresults and
                                   review.
                                   - At                                          recommendationsin
                                        least 50,000 ha are under SLMand soil    Government's replication plan.
                                   conservationpracticesthat reducesoil and
                                   water runoff and erosion, byproject end.
                                   - At least2,000 ha ofprotectedarea
                                   boundaries, buffer zones, andriparian zones
                                   rehabilitated through SLMpracticesinthe
                                   project's intervention area, by the midterm
                                   review.
                                   - At least 5,000 ha ofprotected area
                                   boundaries, buffer zones, and riparian zones
                                   rehabilitated through SLM practicesinthe
                                   project's intervention area, by project end.  YO3 evaluatethe socio-
                                                                                 economic impact of introduced
 Promotesustainable livelihood     - Increasedcrop yield (mostly maize) from     SLMtechnologies, practices,
 amongstakeholders.                less than 1.5 t/ha to 2.5 t/ha inthe          and micro-projects on
                                  NortWAdamaouaprovinces, and from less          stakeholders' livelihood.
                                  than 2.5 t/ha to 3.5 tiha inthe CenterIWest    YO4 incorporateresults and
                                   provincesby project end.                      recommendationsin
                                   - Increasedadoption   of agro-pastoralsystems Government's replication plan.
                                   from less than 65% to 80% by project end in
                                  the NortWAdamaouaProvinces.


                                                         42

Encourage dissemination o f         - ITKbest   practices are fully incorporated
Indigenous Technical Knowledge      into disseminated SLM best practices.
(ITK).
Component 2. Institutional
support for SLM

Sub-component2.1.
Institutionalsupport to the land
reformprocess

          At the national level
Comprehensive policy and            - Land use rights policies have been           YO2 gauge legal, institutional
institutional framework to          reinforced through the review and              mdpolitical feasibility o f
support sustainable agro-           submission for adoption o f legal texts or     xoposed instruments,
ecological activities has been      decrees on land tenure (and land-use rights)   :ommittees, and mechanisms;
prepared ina participatory          bythe project end.                             *eevaluatethe project's
manner and is effective.                                                           Sectiveness in promoting an
                                                                                   :nabling environment for SLM.
Strengthened capacity and           - The Commission    Nationale Consultative     YO4 incorporate results into the
coordination among key              pour 1%nvironnement et le Dheloppement         daboration o fthe
ministriesto promote sound SLM      Durable (CNCEDD) and the Comite`               Government's replication plan.
policies, program and guidelines.   Interministdriel de 2'Environnement (CIE)
                                    are functional inpromoting sound SLM
                                    policies, and strategies by the project end.   YO2 evaluate effectiveness o f
                                                                                   adoption and implementation
          At the local level        - At least 2 landscapeuse and management       of 2 landscape use and
Landscape uselmanagement plans      plans are adopted and implementedat the        management plans at the
are integrated at the local level.  communal level, by the mi-term review.
                                    - At                                           communal level.
                                          least 5 landscape use and management     YO4 incorporateresults into the
                                    plans are adopted and implementedat the        elaboration o fthe
                                    communal level, by the project end.
                                    - A                                            Government's planto adopt
                                        study has beenundertaken on the            and implementlandscape use
                                    sustainability and legal status o f landscape  and management plans inall
                                    use and management plans, bythe project        the provinces.
                                    end.

Sub-component2.2. Enhancing
capacity buildingat the local
level                               - At least 100community-based
Strengthened capacity o f local     organizations have an improved knowledge
communities inSLM good              o f S L M and environmental issues and are
practices.                          able to properly implement biodiversity and
                                    environmentally-friendly S L M practices by
                                    the project end.
                                    - At least 6,000 households have adopted and YO2 evaluate effectiveness of
                                    are implementing S L M practices (Le.,         conflict resolution frameworks
                                    approximately 15% o ftargeted households       and commissions.
                                    within the project's intervention zone).       YO4 incorporate results into tht
                                    - 3                                            elaboration o f the
                                        Conflict ResolutionFrameworks are          Government's plan to manage
Reduced conflicts over resources    effectively operational at the communal        and resolve land-use conflicts
                                    level, through Land Tenure and Land-Use        inall provinces.
                                    Conflict Litigation commissions, bythe mid-
                                    term review.
                                    - 10 Conflict Resolution Frameworks are

                                                          43

                                 effectivelyoperationalat the communal
                                 level, through LandTenure and Land-Use
                                 Conflict Litigation commissions, by project
                                 end.
Component3. Project
management, coordination,
monitoringand evaluation, and
communication

Monitoring and evaluation.       - Baseline  or target valuesto be determined YO2 gauge whether project
                                 (see above), havebeendetermined during the   monitoringmechanismare
                                 first year of projectimplementation.
                                 - M&E                                        under full implementation.
                                          mechanismsunder PAPNDP are          YO4 ensurethat amonitoring
                                 adaptedto the GEF projectand are being       program is introduced inthe
                                 -used.                                       Government'sreplicationplan
                                    GIS database on landand naturalresources  to ensure the successfulscale-
                                  i s updatedand is being used.               up and sustainabilityof SLM
                                                                              practices.
Financial/technicalproject       - Progressreports(financiaVtechnica1)are
progressreports are producedin a  issuedinatimely manner..
timely manner (including audit).

Project impacts and results are   - At least 10 SLMbest practicesand lessons
disseminated.                     are identifiedinaparticipatorymanner, and
                                  are regularlydisseminated.

2.       Monitoringand Evaluation

Monitoring and evaluation functions will be integrated into project management arrangements and the
PAPNDPNational Coordination Unit's monitoring and evaluation systems that are already inplace. This
system allows for ongoing project evaluation of the impacts of various interventions under the project,
feeding into the dissemination of best practices in sustainable land management. Predetermined output
and input indicators would assess the success o f the micro-projects and other interventions and bring
lessons learned to bear on the design o f new activities. The system will benefit from complementary
usage of the GIs-based land-use maps and associated MIS, which will facilitate optimal replication o f
activities to most vulnerable communities. Monitoring would be carried out by project staff, the NCU,
consultants, communes, communities and other beneficiaries. Nevertheless the N C U would ensure the
general project progress monitoring by controlling scheduled actions, evaluating the adequacy o f
execution inrelation to what was planned, and facilitating any necessarymodification.

A detailed project monitoring and evaluation plan with annual target values and arrangements for data
collection and reporting has been finalized duringappraisal (for details on indicators, see Table 1 inthe
above section). Inarid and semi-arid areas, number and density o f tree crop species will be monitored as
key proxy indicator for the re-emergence of other agro-biodiversity, given the greater ease o f
participatory monitoring. Inother cases, control plots will be compared with those inthe targeted project
areas to assess net changes in biodiversity species. These incremental SLM indicators will be integrated
into PAPNDP's existing monitoring and evaluation protocol, and codified into the monitoring and
evaluation manual, which will also be completed duringnegotiations.




                                                       44

3
u         3
z         u
          z     G




                      0
                      cr




                      vi




0    0     0     0    C



$
m   f




i i
z    z    m




i
z         N    0
               vl




i s
z    2         0
          0    N




i
z         0    0

0
3   I-.




z*
0

      m




0
0-
r4    0




        i i i 9        i
0     0    z   z   z  z  2

Comprehensive baseline studies are ongoing to establish adequate data on the start-up situation in
order to set appropriate targets to allow comparison o f key indicators at regular intervals. Given
the heterogeneous nature of eachofthe project sites, differenttargetedindicators for the expected
environmental outcome will be developed for each priority area. Scientific and other
environmental studies to be undertaken as part of Component 2.2 will complement baseline
information and help to target SLM indicators relevant to larger geographical scales (e.g.,
watersheds). Cooperation with the FA0 (LADA project) and TerrAfrica will be pursued in order
to harmonize key SLM indicators for Sub-SaharanAfrica.




                                               50

                     ANNEX 4: DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION


The proposed project intends to enable communities to contribute to combating land degradation
in critical areas, through the adoption of SLM best practices and the development of adequate
capacity, tools, and mechanismsby communities. This proposed project is designed as a partially
blended IDA/GEF project; and will therefore benefit from the activities and organizational
structure already set upthrough PAPNDP, an APL consisting o fthree, four year phases.

The PAPNDP intends to reduce poverty and promote sustainable rural development by
strengthening local governance and empoweringcommunities inrural areas. More specifically, it
supports the implementation of demand-driven micro-projects and carries out local capacity-
buildingactivities. The PAPNDP supports decentralization by strengthening local and technical
capacity and by addressing weaknesses in social capital to improve delivery o f basic services,
generate economic opportunity, and address poverty and growth. More specifically, the PAPNDP
i s focusing mainly on the financing o f community and communal micro-projects involvingpublic
services and infrastructure. The first phase defines the approach and methods to be implemented
in five  (5) priority provinces for project interventions, and anticipates to reach the following
outputs: (i) establish a system for channeling hnds to rural communities to finance prioritized
collective infrastructure; (ii) provide support to communities and communes as they engage in a
participatory appraisal of their needs, leading to the preparation o f local development plans and
the implementationo fmicro-projects co-financed bythe PAPNDP; (iii)        strengthenthe capacity o f
communities and local Governments to plan and manage their own development; and (iv)
improve the legal and regulatory framework for decentralized rural development. The second
phase o f the PAPNDP will maintain support to communities involved inthe first phase but will
extend the reach of the first phase actions to all provinces and new communities. The level o f
communities' responsibilities will be increased and collaboration among communes supported in
the first phase will be strengthened. Finally, during the third phase, national coverage will be
achieved, and support will be given to the institutional and capacity building activities aimed at
developing a sustainable institutional and financial mechanism for supporting local development;
resultingincommunes taking full responsibility for local development.

The PAPNDP and GEF activities will complement each other and will reinforce the efficiency of
bothprojects, by creating a synergy.

 Geographic location: The GEF project will intervene within areas covered by PAPNDP, and
specifically inthe Provinces of the North, Adamaoua, Centre, and West. The priority areas for the
project's intervention have been selected based on levels o f land degradation, land use systems,
environment management, and population concerned. Within the four targeted provinces divided
 into sub-agro-ecological zones (lo), 17 sites were selected on the basis o f the following criteria:
 (i) magnitude of land degradation (as measured through soil fertility depletion, rate o f water
 runoff, and soil erosion, land-use systems, and land productivity); (ii)presence o f protectedareas;
 (iii)land-usesystems/productivity; (iv) biodiversityconservation, cropcover andagro-forestry
practices; (v) socio-economic facilitating factors or constraints; and (v) other facilitating factors
 (communal landscapeuse and management plans, maps, and accessibility o fthe sites). For details
 on the criteria usedfor the selection of sites, please refer to Table 1below. Please refer to Table 2
 below, for the list o f intervention sites validated duringappraisal.




                                                    51

Table 1: Criteria and sub-criteria for the selection of sites:


Theme                      Concept                                Indicator
 1.Severityoflanddegradation
 Geo-physical and          Landscape and landslides               Landslopes, soil moisture
 soil chemistry            Wind erosion                           Wind exposure
                           Water erosion                          Rate of erosionhedimentation
                           Water retentionand drainage            Fast watering
                           Ground water                            Soil moisture
                           Soil fertility                         Rate of organic matter
                                                                   Soil pH
                                                                  Permeability/Infiltration
                                                                  Level o f water tabldground water
                                                                   level and recharge rates
                           Soil structure                          Percentageo f sand, clay lime
                           Soil salinity or soil acidification     Soil chemistry
 2. Land use systems/productivity
 Agricultural              Groundpreparation                       Soil cover
 practicedfarming systems  Crop rotation                           Rotation length, type of crops
                           Grazing                                 Number of species per ha
                                                                   Percentage ofvegetative cover
                           BushfireDeforestation                   Existence o f animal corridors
                                                                   Number o f crop speciesper ha
                                                                   Number o fha
                                                                   NPKrate
                           Use o f chemical inputs                 Overgrazing (Number o f species,
                           Slash and burnpractices                 degradation o f vegetative cover)
                                                                   Number o f crop species, soil
                                                                   exposure
                                                                   Chemical pollution
                                                                   Organic matter rate
 Agricultural productivity Net primary productivity o f Main       Yields o f (a) cash-crops (cotton,
                           crops yields (cotton, coffee, root,     coffee) And (b) subsistence crops
                           tuber, plantains, millet, sorghum)      (roots, tubers, plantains, millet,
                                                                   sorghum)
                           Soil fertility                          Organic matter rate; NPK
                           Dairy cow productivity                  L/cowlday
                           Life weight ofmaincattle                Kdanimal
 3. Biodiversityconservation,Crop Coverand Agroforestry practices
 Biodiversity              Biodiversity depletion                  Loss o f species (Assessment,
                           Alteration and destruction o f habitats  Community perception)
                                                                   N o of tree speciesha
                                                                   Existenceo f indicator species
                                                                    Annual soil losses and runoff




                                             52

~4. Socio-economic
 Target groups               Populationconcerned                     No. o f inhabitants
                             Surface area                            hectares
                             Density o f population                  Competitionfor land, land disputes
                             Presenceof indigenous and vulnerable    Pygmies, Mbororos
                             people
                             Landtenure distribution                 % ofpopulation with landuse rights
                                                                     Crop intensity
                             Existence of local development plans,   YesiNo
                              including NRM
                              Existence o f community                Yes/No
                              organizations/associations
                              Sustainable landmanagement             YesiNo
                              experience
                              Experience of, and interest in         YesiNo
                              addressing conflicts over natural       Strongweak
                              resourcesusage
                              Poverty severity                        Ranking of ECAM I1
 6. Other facilitating factors
 Other facilitating factors   Water dams                              Yes/No
                              Irrigation schemes                      YesiNo
                              Protected areas                         YesiNo
                              Community forests                       Yes/No
                              Soil maps                               Yes/No
                              Land-use maps                           Yes/No
                              Accessibility and distance,withregards  Yes/No
                              to the location of the PPU
                              Concentration of interventions (ongoing Yes/No
                              or plannedPAPNDP or other initiatives
                              on local development, until2008)




                                                 53

Table 2: GEF priority interventionzones (sites of micro-projectimplementation)

Final selection o f GEFpriority intervention zones was made based on recommendations from the
Baseline Study, andvalidated at appraisal, against the criteria and sub-criteria listed above.


'rovince      EcologicalZonesISites    Characteristics and root causes of land     I Communes  concerned
                                       degradation
idamaoua      Plateauzone                 Grazingareas invadedby invasive            Ygaoundkrk
                                          species
                                          Over grazing                               Meiganaga.

                                          Land conflict betweenprotectedareas,
                                          farmers and grazers
                                       - Infestationbytsetse flies
              Dry savannazone          - Watererosion
                                       -                                             rignkre
                                          Land conflict betweenprotectedareas
                                          and farmers
              Watershed ofDjerem       - Overgrazing                                 Ygaoundal
              [i.e., Bassin de Djerem) -- Destructionofgallery forests
                                          Absence of fodder crops                    Mayo-Darlk.

Center        Humid forest zone        - Deforestation                               Okola
                                       -- Destructionofgallery forests
                                          Bushfires1Slashandburnagriculture
                                          practicesDeforestation
              Foresdsavanna            - Landconflictbetweenfarmersand               Yoko
              transition zone             grazers
                                       - Destructionofgallery forests                Batschenga.

                                       - Bushfires/ Slashandburnagriculture
                                          practicesDeforestation
North         Bush-savannazone         - Deforestation/Competitionforwood            Lagdo
              (Le., savanes               energy resulting inforest depletion        TchollirC.
              arbustives)              - Destructionofgallery forests
                                       - Alteration ofwetlandsforcropping;
                                       - Sedimentatiodsandingupofwater-
                                          points and water-ways
                                       - Biodiversitydepletion,alterationand
                                          destructiono fhabitats
              Sudan-Sahelianzone       - Desertification                             Mayo-Oulo
                                       - Highpopulationmigration leadingto
                                          land-use conflicts betweenfarmers and      Guider

                                       -  grazers                                    Pitoa.
                                          Alteration of wetlands for cropping;
                                       -  Dryingout ofwater-points andwater-
                                          w a w
West          HighPlateauzone          -- Water erosionresulting inlandslides        Bangangtk
                                          Overgrazing and poor farming practices
              Lowland ofNoun(Le.)      - Overgrazingonwatershed                      Magba
              plaine du Noun)          -  Land-useconflicts betweenfarmers and
                                           grazers                                   Kouoptamo.

              Lowland (Le., Basse      - Alteration ofwetlandsfor cropping;          Santchou
              plaine)                  - Drying-outoflow-landsandproblems
                                          ofwater retention and drainage
                                       - Biodiversitydepletion,alterationand
                                          destruction o fhabitats




                                                 54

Project Components

The following GEF project components have been designed to accelerate investments in
combating land degradation and to promote the development of capacity, tools, and mechanisms
for communities' ownership in this process. The activities of these components will mitigate the
mainbarriers to adopting effective SLMbest practices inCameroon.

ComDonent 1 Enhanced integration of SLM into local develoDment (Total US$70.90 m;
                -
GEF US$3.60 m; Beneficiaries co-financing; US$1.39m; Government co-financing US$32.47m;
IDA co-financingUS$lO.OOm; AFDKFW co-financingUS$23.44m)
Obiective of comDonent 1: The main objective of this component is to co-finance SLM micro-
projects, at the request of beneficiaries (communities and communes), within the project's
intervention zone. The project intends to finance at least 20 communal micro-projects by the
midterm review, and at least 60 communal micro-projects by project-end for a total of
US$2,400,000 (ie., approximately 1,322,400,000        CFA Francs). The project also intends to
finance at least 60 community micro-projects by the midtermreview, and at least 150 community
micro-projects by project-end for a total o f US$1,200,000 (i.e., approximately 661,200,000 CFA
Francs). The total amounts allocated to micro-projects (US$3,600,000 - Le., 1,983,600,000 CFA
Francs) do not include the estimated total of beneficiaries contribution (US$360,000 - Le.,
198,360,000 CFA Francs). The latter's contributions will be the same for both communal and
community micro-project; at least 10% o f the cost o f the micro-project, of which at least 2
percent will be incash.

Eligible micro-projects will enable communities to help retard and reverse land degradation,
conserve the unique biodiversity (including agro-biodiversity), hence improve its productivity.
Eligibility criteria for micro-projects have been developed and agreedupon duringappraisal (see
below). A negative list o f micro-projects (cf. Table 3, below) and a non-exhaustive positive list
(cf. Table 2, below) have also been elaborated.

EliPibilitv criteria for communitv and communal micro-Droiects: The GEF project will
follow PAPNDP's procedure for approval, and the following eligibility criteria for its micro-
projects:
     Micro-projects are withinthe project's intervention zones.
     Proposed micro-projects are not inthe project's negative list (see Table 3 below).
     All GEF-funded micro-projects in a specific site are in line with a local development plan
     (whether prepared with support from PAPNDP or other development partners and under the
     condition that it receives approval from PDCKDC).
     Beneficiariesare eligible and have legal status to implement and maintainthe micro-projects.
     The tenure status on the land, on which community micro-projects will be implemented, is
     clearly known.
     Beneficiaries contribute at least 10% o f the cost of the micro-project of which at least 2% in
     cashas statedinthe ProjectImplementationManual.
     The grant amount to be allocated cannot exceed 4,000,000 CFA Francs (approximately
     US$7,250) for a community micro-project and 20,000,000 CFA Francs (approximately
     US$36,000) for a communal micro-project.
     There is not other source offinancing for the same activities (eventhough a micro-project can
     be co-financed).
     The micro-projects are consistent with applicablenational standards.
     The micro-projects are consistent with PAPNDP's environmental and social safeguards
     policies.



                                                 55

    A specific micro-project management committee has been established, and adequate
    arrangements are in place for financing maintenance and other incremental recurrent costs
    related to the micro-project (human and financial resources).

Svnergv between the PAPNDP and urouosed GEF uroiect: The PAPNDP provides technical
assistance to communes and communities to prepare their development plans in a participatory
manner, and to address their local/communal issues and needs. The local development plans
(which are either communal or community development plans) provide the basis for the selection
and the design o f micro-projects and will include: (i)background with a map and the current
situation; (ii)priority issues; (iii)solutions and their impacts; (iv) related estimated costs; (v)
programming and (vi) monitoring and evaluation arrangements.. The eligible micro-projects may
be in the domain o f collective social investments, public marketing infrastructure, rural finance
and natural resources management. Under PAPNDP, grants are channeled to communes and
communities to co-finance their proposed micro-projects to reduce poverty by addressing their
priority needs.

The PAPNDP has put in place a mechanism for financing community and communal projects,
through Communal Decision Committees (CDC) and Provincial Decision Committee (PDC). The
GEF project will profit from this system. Regarding communities' micro-projects, decentralized
technical ministries will be involved in the planning process and will ensure that development
plans are in line with national standards, policies and planned activities and infrastructure in the
commune. Once the local development plan is designed, it will be sent to the CDCs. The CDCs
are composed of representatives from decentralized technical ministries, rural communes,
community-based organizations and non Governmental organizations (NGOs). Following the
approval o f the development plan by the CDC, the CBOs might contract local implementing
agencies and technical agents to prepare all technical documents related to their requests; these
costs would be considered part of the micro-project's costs. The CDC would provide approval
based on the eligibility criteria set for micro-projects (see above). Concerning communal micro-
projects, after the local development plan is designed, it will be sent to a PDC for approval. Each
PDC is composed of representatives from decentralized technical ministries, communes, the
National Assembly and NGOs, which ensures the coordination o f the project's activities.
Following the approval o f the development plan by the PDC, communes would prepare and
submit micro-project proposals, and the PDC will review and approve them based on specific
eligible criteria (see above). The decision committee will ensure the technical and financial
feasibility o fthe micro-projects as well as their consistency with national standards and social and
environmental screening. The operating cost of CDC and PDC will be supported by the
PAPNDP.

The GEF project will assist communes and communities in identifying and capturing SLM
concerns and environmental benefits and introducing their S L M concerns into local development
plans, which will provide the basis for the selection and the design o f micro-projects. Based on
local development plans, the GEF project will complement and co-finance community and
communal-driven micro-projects on S L M in its priority areas. These micro-projects will enable
communities to help retard and reverse land degradation while conservingthe unique biodiversity
(including ago-silvopastoral-biodiversity), hence improving its productivity.

Specific activities to be financed bv the GEF uroiect: While buildingon Indigenous Technical
Knowledge (ITK) in the design and implementation o f S L M practices, the activities to be
supported include financing micro-projects on S L Mto reduce soil erosion and water runoff and to
improve vegetative cover. Other GEF supported activities include the promotion o f technologies
that conserve soil and water, and thus preserve biodiversity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.


                                                   56

Example o f such technologies include contour planting, windbreaks, shelterbelts with native
species, renewal of degraded hillsides and pastures, ecologically sound water management,
application o f conservation tillage systems, and mixed agroforestry systems (cf. the PIM for a
more exhaustive list of activitiesto be financed).

Main outcomes: The main outcome o f this component will be the identification and increased
adoption o f SLM good practices by communes/communities that not only enhance land
productivity but also conserve native biodiversity, enhance carbon sequestration, and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions through proper implementation of demand-driven micro-projects. To
avoid capture o f resources by elites and in line with PAPNDP's on-going approach, the project
would ensure that every process (preparation o f local development plans, formulation of micro-
projects requests, and implementation) is participatory and management of resources is
transparent. Detailed description ofthis process is included inthe PIM.

Target proup: Component 1 will target: (i)rural communes and rural community-based
organizations (CBOs with legal status), particularly resource-poor farmers (subsistence and
small-sized farmers) living in critical areas for land management and biodiversity conservation
and women, who for example in the North and Adamaoua Provinces lack access to water and
fuel-wood and may need some support in developing water facilities and community and/or
communal forests; and (ii)   indigenous and minority groups such as the Pygmies and Mbororos.
When present in the project's intervention zone, particular attention will be given to indigenous
people (Pygmies) and vulnerable groups (the Mbororos) whose livelihoods depend mainly on
hunting and gathering. With regards to the Mbororos in the West, Adamaoua, and Northern
Provinces, activities will focus on setting up grazing corridors. Also, the GEF project will seek to
ensure inclusion of the Pygmies when present in the priority areas, which will be identified
through the use o f a GIs-based system. The project will facilitate their integration and help
subsidize submittedmicro-projects relatedto sustainable land management.

Pleasefind below, a non-exhaustive list o f eligible micro-projects inTable 2, and a negative list
of micro-projects inTable 3.




                                                 57

2  2




        u
        0

 E


       Q)
       0
       m
       C


      U0
       C

      z"
       s
      .I




      E
     .-.-0
      C
      GI

      E

      U
      x
     RI
     t"


      m
      E
      3
     U
     >0

     CG

     cI

     w
I
    sI

Table 3: Negative List o f Micro-Projects
        i
          Type of activities                     Example
          Constructionor rehabilitationof        Office space for local administration, housing for civil
          office space                           servants, for teachers and for medical staff, buildingsfor
        I                                        trade unions of political parties, offices for cooperatives or
,                                                groups.
2.        Construction, rehabilitationor         Entertainment facilities.
          equipment o fentertainment
          buildings other than for sport or
          socio-cultural
3.        Construction, rehabilitationor         Mosques, chapels or temples

                                                 Purchaseof vehicles, tractors, trailers or other accessories
                                                 and equipment exclusively benefitingfrom private interest,
                                                 managemento f bar dancing, the sale o fproducts and
                                                 drum.
          Investments benefitingfrom             Acquisition of equipment and vehicles and motorcycles for
          Government, communes, steering         agents incharge o f the monitoringo f communal activities,
          committees or individual               the construction of housing for individual.
6.        Projects with a negative
          environmental impact
7.         Collective infrastructure and         Classrooms, community enclosed, housing for teachers and
          equipment ofpublic nature              medical staff. Equipment(tables, bancs, tableau, chaise.. .)
                                                 School equipment, educational equipment, healthkit for
                                                 schools, professional training centre for handicaps,
                                                 adventure playgrounds, youth clubs, socio-educative
                                                 community homes, integrated health centers, community
                                                 free clinics, emergency shelf, maternity hospital, public
                                                 drugstores, prophylactic equipment, HIV/AIDS support
                                                 centers, roads, ruralroads and feed roads, maintenance
                                                 equipment, boundary infrastructure on critical points
                                                 Solar panels, ruralelectricity, telecommunication
                                                 infrastructure, wind energy.

Component 2 - Institutional suuuort for SLM (Total US$11.552m: GEF US$1.712m; IDA co-
financing US$4.45m; Government co-financing US$2.36; AFDKFW co-financingUS$3.03)

Through this component, the project aims to reinforce the institutional framework at the national level,
and strengthen the capacities o f beneficiaries to better integrate SLM best practices in their local
development plans. It also seeks to improve the mechanism o f land conflict resolution, among farmers,
foresters, herders, other natural resource users, andtraditional chiefs.

Sub-Comuonent 2.1 - Institutional suuuort to the land reform process: (Total US$7.47m; GEF
~ $ 0 .17Om; IDA co-financing US$3.43m;Government co-financing US$l.Om ;AFDKFW co-financing
US$2.33m 1

Objective of sub-comuonent 2.1: The main objective o f this sub-component is to: (i)               develop and
reinforce policies, regulations, and institutional frameworks at national and decentralized levels to address
land degradation and to mainstream SLM issues into appropriate rural development policy frameworks;
(ii)contribute, jointly with key concerned ministries,to the delineation o f agro-silvopastoral lands within
the project's intervention zones, and assist in the implementation of at least 5 landscape use and
                                                                                                             60

management plans at the communal level by the project end; (iii)     support existingcommissions (i.e., the
CommissionNationale Consultativepour 1'Environnementet le Ddveloppement Durable (CNCEDD) and
the Comitd Interministdriel de 1'Environnement (CIE), discussed in Section D, 4.3.), and concerned
ministries inthe recognition of traditional land management rights and the promotion of their implication
in the land-use and tenure process, as a means of mitigating conflicts of land which are often a major
cause o fthe lack o f adoptiono f SLMand land degradation.

Svnerev between the PAPNDP and urouosed GEF Droiect: The PAPNDP supports the
decentralization process in Cameroon by strengthening local governance to give accountable
decentralized authorities the legal authority and human and financial resources needed for local
development. It will increase sensitization on decentralization through its support to the MINATD
outreach and communication campaigns for administrative decentralization. The PAPNDP will finance (i)
workshops on decentralization, (ii)  training, and (iii) trips inCameroon and in other countries where
                                                        field
decentralization i s more advanced. It provides financial resources for studies and technical and advisory
services to support the finalization o f the preparation of legal and regulatory framework for local
governance in particular regarding fiscal decentralization, including on mechanism to transfer funds to
municipalities.

Under this sub-component, the GEF resources will complement the actions undertaken by the PAPNDP
focusing on the development and reinforcement o f policies, regulations, and institutional frameworks at
national and decentralized levels to address land degradation and to mainstream SLM issues into
appropriate rural development policy frameworks. The project will reinforce the capacity and accelerate
the process o f multi-sectoral coordination among key ministries to promote sound SLM policies,
programs and guidelines.

Although the proposed GEF project does not intendto resolve the far-too-complex issue o f landtenure, it
will contribute to improving the existing mechanism for landscape use and management planning, thus
reducing agro-silvopastoral conflicts. Based on the outputs o f ongoing efforts by the Government, as well
as key findings and recommendations from the PDF-B financed "Review o f Institutional, Legislative, and
Policy Frameworks Bottlenecks for proper SLM Implementation," the project will contribute to the
delineation o f agro-silvopastoral lands within the project's intervention zones (through the development
and implementation of landscape use and management plans and the improvement o f the legal
framework), assist inthe implementationof landscapeuse/managementplans at the communal level inall
zones o f intervention, and inform all the relevant ministries. These GEF supported contributions will lead
to a reduction inthe number o f delimited lands beingencroached upon or beingdeclared protected areas
(at the national level) with total disregard for previous consensual land management arrangements at the
local level.

The project will also assist the Government in elaborating landscape use and management plans
throughout the country, via the development and implementation o f a Government's replication plan..
This planwould be a usefuldecision makingand development planningtool for rationalizing landuse and
tenure at the local level. It would emphasize such factors as vulnerable soils (in terms o f existing or
potential erosion), levels of soil fertility, arable land, fallow areas and ago-silvopastoral suitability. To
this end, a GIs-based Management Information System (MIS) being developed by the Government will
be utilized by the PAPNDP and updated for the proposed project's purposes (with resources from
Component 3), to track socio-economic trends and patterns. Rationalization could also include, if
necessary, measures to reduce the current level o f active land use. It will foster increased dialogue
between local Government rural communities and their leaders, farmers, herders and other resource users
and will enhance incentives for the adoption, replication, and sustainability o f SLM practices.

With regards to the CNCEDD and CIE, the project will assist in suggestions on reviewing, and possibly
amending, Decrees No. 78/263 (dated September 03, 1978), No. 94/259 (dated May 31, 1994), No.

                                                                                                           61

2001/718/PM (dated September 03, 2001), and No. 044/CAB/PM (dated August 02, 2004), in order to
improve their effectiveness.

Suecific activities to be financed by the GEF uroiect: In order to achieve the objectives of this sub-
component, the project will seek to reinforce the existing: (i) and institutional framework inview o f
                                                              legal
promoting land tenure, as well as institutional capacities of coordination; and (ii)functioning of SLM-
related consultation and coordinationcommittees, especially the Commission Nationale Consultativepour
1'Environnement et le De'veloppement Durable (CNCEDD) and the Comite' Interministe'riel de
1'Environnement (CIE).

To this end, GEF resources will be used to finance workshops, training, study tours, consulting services,
and small equipment and software in support of: (i)    raising awareness at the community and commune
level o f the existence and role of existing rural development and conflict mitigation apparatuses; (ii)
enhancing the effectiveness of, and collaboration between members o f SLM-related consultation and
coordination committees; and (iii)fostering increased dialogue between local Governments, rural
communities, and their leaders, farmers, herders and other resource users. Moreover, GEF resources will
finance:   (i)the development and implementationof landscape use and management plans, at the
communal level, within the project's intervention zone in order to strengthen the dialogue between local
authorities and communities on one hand, and farmers, herders and other natural resource-users on the
other hand; and (ii) review and submission for adoption of decrees or laws for the promotion o f land
                     the
tenure (and land-use rights).

Main outcomes: The main outcomes of this sub-component will be: (i) comprehensive policy and
                                                                             a
institutional framework to support SLM and associated environmental benefits, as well as promote
improved land tenure practices; (ii)strengthened awareness and coordination among key ministries to
promote and mainstream sound SLM policies, program and guidelines; (iii)effective functioning of the
CNCEED and CIE in promoting and mainstreaming SLM; (iv) development o f land-use planning which
integrates SLM needs; (vi) at least 5 landscape use and management plans at the communal level, by
project end; and (vi) a SLM replication plan developed by the project and Government to ensure the
sustainable mainstreaming of best SLMpractices at project end.

Tarpet grouu: The targeted groups of this sub-component are inter-ministerial committees of
coordination on SLM (i.e.,       Commission Nationale Consultative pour 1'Environnement et de le
De'veloppement Durable (CNCEDD) and Comite' Interministe'riel de 1'Environnement (CIE))

Sub-Comuonent 2.2 - Enhancinp cauacitv buildinp at the local level: (Total US$4.082m: GEF
US$l.O02m: IDA co-financing US$l.O2m:Government co-financing US$1.36m; AFDKFW co-financing
US$0.7 m)

Obiectiveof sub-comuonent2.2: The main objective o f this sub-component is to: (i) the capacity
                                                                                       build
of beneficiaries in integrating SLM best practices in'theirlocal development plans; and (ii) contribute to
an improvement of land-use conflict resolution mechanisms (between farmers, herders, foresters,
traditional chiefs, and other natural resource users).

Synergy between the PAPNDP and urouosed GEF uroiect: Under the PAPNDP, the capacity o f
communes will be strengthened through targeted training and programs (communal accounting,
decentralization, conflict resolution, and local development) for elected decentralized authorities and
commune staff. Local implementingagencies and/or technical agents are contracted out to strengthen the
beneficiaries' capacity inthe preparation o f local and communal development plans, micro-projects, and
their implementation. While assisting communities inthe participatory planning process, facilitators will
be able to assess community capacities and design specific training and outreach programs to be


                                                                                                       62

implemented by specialists contracted by the project. This training will allow beneficiaries to gradually
take on more responsibilitiesand will increasetheir ownership of micro-projects.

The PAPNDP currently finances: (i)studies to assess communes' capacities and development capacity-
buildingprograms; (ii) for elected decentralized authorities and commune staff; (iii)
                         training                                                                accounting
agents to be progressively taken charge by communes; (iv) equipment, mainly information technology to
allow adequate financial management and monitoring and evaluation; and (v) support to communes and
communities in the elaboration o f local development plans. PAPNDP will also finance specific training
and outreach campaigns including literacy, HIV/AIDS prevention, hygiene, nutrition, community
forestry, micro-credit and savings, safeguard issues and community-based integrated environmental
management.

At the community level, local implementingagencies and technical agents will assist communities in (i)
defining their members, territory, assets, and common interests; (ii)assessingtheir issues and needs; (iii)
perceiving their priorities; and (iv) drafting their local development plans (see component 1for content of
development plan). At the commune level, local implementing agencies will assist in preparing a
communal development plan(see component 1for content of development plan).

Building upon the baseline training o f beneficiaries supported by the PAPNDP, the GEF project will
support incremental capacity building and training o f local communes and communities on integrating
good SLMpractices (and their related environmental benefits) into local and communal project planning.
This component will also facilitate the preparation and development of awareness-raising programs
through local press, workshops and training seminars, for the benefit o ftargetedcommunes, communities,
NGOs and concerned line-ministries.Inthis way, these activities will foster cross-sectoral partnerships
for SLM at local levels and increase local access to good practices and emerging knowledge that help
guide SLMinvestments.Inorder to further achieve the objectives of this sub-component, the project will
seek to reinforce the existing Land Tenure Commissions (i.e., Commission Consultative Fonciire) and
Commissions on the modalities for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts (i.e., Commission Consultative de
Riglement des Conflits Ago-Pastoraux).

 Specific activities to be financed bv the GEF proiect: In order to achieve the objectives o f this sub-
 component, the project will seek to reinforce stakeholders' capacities through: (i)the preparation and
 development of awareness-raising campaigns and programs, and training o f beneficiaries (communities
 and communes), local implementingagencies, technical and administrative representatives, as well as the
 project's decision committees (CDCMunicipal Council and PDC) and implementing committees
 (Project's Provincial Coordination Unit, Municipal Executive Committee, and Consultative Committee);
 (ii)land-use planning diagnostics and targeted environmental studies focused on enhancing the
 implementation o f integrated landscape or watershed management plans including upstream-downstream
 linkages and hydrological flows where watersheds are the unit o f analysis, as well as riparian zones,
 gallery forests, and buffer zones of protected areas (which would directly feed into the subsequent design,
 development, and monitoring o f micro-projects eligible under Component 1) ;and (iii) elaboration o f
                                                                                           the
 a methodologicalguide and tools appropriate for the elaboration of landscape use and management plans
 and integrated management of watersheds, buffer zones, forest galleries and protected areas. The project
 will also contribute to reinforcing the functionality o f existing Land Tenure Commissions and
 Commissions on the modalities for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts (with strengthened inclusion o f
 farmers, foresters, pastoralists, other resource users and community leaders), in view o f an improved
 efficiency ofthe land-use conflict resolution mechanism at the local level.

 To this end, GEF incrementalresourceswill finance workshops, study tours, studies ((Feasibility for SLM
 Planning, Site Diagnosis and advanced Soil Analysis), technical assistance to assist beneficiaries in
 designing and implementingSLM micro-projects, and an awareness campaign (advertisements on radio
 and in local press). Eligible activities would also include consultant services and training for: (i)
                                                                                                     sharing

                                                                                                         63

and disseminating knowledge on improved farming methods based on the results o f PDF-B funded
studies; (ii)implementing practices entailing more efficient use of naturalresources; and (iii) stock
                                                                                              taking
o f innovative SLM technologies and their dissemination. To the greatest extent possible, activities will
promote locally appropriate technologies and customized approaches to land conservation and
rehabilitation. The activities of this sub-component will be realized in conjunction with several research
institutions selected ona competitive basis.

Main outcomes: The project outcomes are: (i) least 100 local community-based organizations have an
                                                   at
improved knowledge of SLM and environmental issues and knowledge and strengthened capacity, and
are able to properly implement SLM tool kits by the project end; (ii)at least 6,000 households have
adopted and are implementing SLMpractices; (iii)      effective functioning o fthe LandTenure Commissions
and Commissions on the modalities for resolving agro-pastoral conflicts; and (iv) at least 10 Conflict
Resolution Frameworks are effectively operational at the communal level by project end (3 by the
midtermreview).

Target group: This sub-component will target the following groups: communes, communities, local
implementing agencies and NGOs, indigenous people (Pygmies), as well as vulnerable groups (the
Mbororos), Land Tenure Commissions and Commissions on the modalities for resolving agro-pastoral
conflicts.

Comuonent 3 -Proiectmanapement,coordination, monitoring:and evaluation, and communication
(Total US$15.54m; GEF US$0.688m; IDA co-financing US$5.55m; Government co-financing
US$2.03m; AFDKFW co-financingUS$7.28m)

Obiective of comuonent 3: The main objective o f this component is to ensure proper project
management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and communication.

SvnerPv betweenthe PAPNDP and urouosedGEF Droiect: The PAPNDP ensures project coordination
through workshops and meetings aimed at better coordination among ministries, a better liaison with
donors, and better national communication. It has set up (i)      a computerized monitoring and evaluation
system to follow activities in financial and technical terms and (ii)    a knowledge management system for
decision makers. Stakeholders at every level are involved in gathering, processing analyzing, storing and
disseminating the information required for transparent and efficient decision-making, and for sound
financial and technical monitoring of activities. The monitoring and evaluation system provides
information to (i) set clear and realistic objectives for each activity; (ii)
                                                                            measure gaps betweentargets and
actual results to identify problems with implementation; (iii)   propose options and arrangementsto address
those issues; and (iv) better inform stakeholders through periodic reporting. The PAPNDP has set (i)
sound knowledge management procedure which will ensure efficient information circulation and (ii)
reliable communication channels, which will guarantee the circulation of strategic information in the
PAPNDP and the circulation of technical and financial information to beneficiaries, partners, and experts
as well as communicationwith the public.

Under this component, the GEF project will benefit from PAPNDP's management, coordination,
monitoring and evaluation and communication systems already in place, adding leverage to SLM
advocates in Cameroon in their efforts to embed SLM into sectoral activities. Land degradation and
biodiversity parameters will be integrated into existing M&E systems (see results expected and tentative
indicators in the result framework). It will be complemented by usage o f PAPNDP's GIS-based land-use
map and associatedMIS, which will facilitate optimal replication o f activities to areas most vulnerable to
land degradation. This process will also provide a better handle on evaluating the impacts o f various
interventions on SLM.



                                                                                                        64

Specific activities to be financed bv the GEF project: GEF resources will be used to finance
incremental project management and monitoring needs: mainly, workshops, office equipment and
supplies, vehicle, consultant services and staff salaries for the accountant and SLM specialist, and related
operationalcosts.

Main outcomes:      The main outcomes of this component will be: (i)the development of baseline
databases on land and natural resources inthe targeted locations; (ii)   effective monitoring and evaluation
(ie., M&E mechanisms and GIS database under PAPNDP are adapted to the GEF project and are being
used); (iii)efficient and timely production of technical and financial progress reports; and (iv)
dissemination o f project impacts and results, as well as best practices and lessons learned on SLM.

Taryet ProuD: The target groups of this component are the following: the NCU, mainly its implementing
agencies and its monitoring and evaluation unit.




                                                                                                          65

                                         ANNEX 5: PROJECTCOSTS




    Project Cost By Component and/or                       Local                Foreign             Total
    Activity                                           U S $million          U S $million        U S $million
    I.Financialsupportforthe
    integrationof SLMinto local
    development
          Grant for Micro-Projects                        3.960                                    3.960
    11.Institutionalsupportfor SLM
         Institutional Support to the Land                0.710                    0.062           0.772
    Reform Process
         EnhancingCapacity Buildingat the                 1.002                                    1..002
    LocalLevel
    111.ProjectManagement,
    Coordinationand Evaluation,and
    Communication
    --______                                     I                         I                 I                     I
                  ~  ~

         Management and Coordination                      0.3164                   0.1015          0.4179
         Monitoring& Evaluation                           0.060                                    0.060
         Communication                                    0.013                                    0.013
          Operation and Maintenance                       0.0887                                   0.0887
          Support Staff                                   0.210                                    0.210
    IV. PDF-B
         PDF-B                                            0.350                                    0.350
                           Total ProjectCosts'            6.7101                   0.1635          6.8736
                      Total FinancingRequired

'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$0.00, and the total project cost, net o ftaxes, is US$ 6.8736m. Therefore, the
share o f project cost net o ftaxes is 100%.




                                                                                                                    66

       ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONAND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

1. Implementationprinciples

The project will be implemented according to the overall principles definedby the PAPNDP. There are
four, notably:
0   The Government and local beneficiaries must participate in financial support to micro-project
    decisionmaking, because both are contributing financial resources.
0   Implementation entities must display transparency and efficiency, and avoid undue delay between
    community requests and implementationo f micro-projects.
0   Successful project implementation requires all stakeholders (Government, communities, local
    Government, non-Governmental organizations, or NGOs, donors) to be actively involved.
0   Community-level micro-projects must be consistent with national sectoral policies.

Similarly to PAPNDP, the Project will be organized to comply with the decentralization framework,
especially with regardto rural communes:

    At the village and community level, Sustainable Land Management perceived priorities will be
    reflected inprepared local development plans. Local implementingagencies and technical agents will
    help communities be focused on sustainable land management issues and design micro-projects
    aimed at adopting sustainable land management practices, inter alia: mitigation measures for
    reducing soil erosion and water runoff, contour planting, renewal o f degraded hillsides and pastures,
    ecologically sound water management, application of conservation tillage systems, crop cover,
    windbreaks, grassedwaterways, etc.

    At the communal level, in order to reinforce its analytical capacity, Communal Decision Committee
    (CDC) will be supported, as needed, by Sustainable Land Management consultants. Designed
    communal development plans will be used as a decision making and development planning tool for
    rationalizing land use and tenure. It will emphasize such factors as vulnerable soils (in terms o f
    existing or potential erosion), levels of soil fertility, arable land, fallow areas, and agro-silvopastoral
    suitability. Rationalization will also include as necessary measures to reduce the current level o f
    active land use. It will foster increased dialogue between rural communities, interest groups, farmers,
    resource users, community leaders, and local bodies to meet this goal and enhance incentives for the
    adoption, replication, and sustainability o f SLMpractices.

    At the provincial level, Provincial Decision Committee (PDC) will do the same as at the communal
     level to reinforce its analytical capacity as sustainable land management is concerned. PDC will inter-
    act with the Provincial Project Unit (PPU) to contribute to the development and reinforcement o f
    policies, regulations, and institutional frameworks to address land degradation and to integrate SLM
     issues into appropriate rural development policy frameworks at the provincial level. To this end, a
    GIs-based Management Information System (MIS) being developed by the Government at the
    provincial level (i.e. GESEP inthe northern provinces, will be utilized by the project, to track socio-
     economic trends and patterns).

    At the central level, Buildingupon ongoing efforts by the Government, the steering committee will
     give instructions and helpthe project be focused toward (i) review and adoptiono f legaltext(s) on
                                                                    the
     land use, with objective; (ii) the preparation and implementation of landscape use and management
     plans at the communal level; (iii)to reinforce capacity and coordination among key ministries to
     promote sound SLM policies, programs and guidelines; and (iv) to support capacity building and
    training o f local communities with regards to the effects o f land degradation on their welfare, as well
     as means o f integratinggood practices into local and communal project planning.

                                                                                                            67

 2. Institutionalarrangements


 National




_-----___----------

 Provincial




 Communal

I




 3. Staffing

 In addition to the existing environmental/land management specialist, a junior accountant and
 procurement assistant will be hired to complement PAPNDP's National Coordination Unit, for proper
 implementation o f GEF-funded activities. The environmentalAand management specialist will assist the
 Coordinator to plan and monitor the soundness o f all GEF-funded activities. The junior accountant will
 report to PAPNDP's Financial Management Specialist at the national level. The Procurement Assistant
 will report to the PAPNDP's Procurement Specialist at the national level. Terms of reference for these
 additional staff, to be recruited on a competitive selection, have been prepared and agreed upon with the
 Bank.

 4. Procurementand FinancialManagement

 Based on project implementation arrangement, the overall responsibility for procurement and financial
 management will remain with the NCU and the day-to-day management carried out by the Coordinator,
 the environmentalAand management specialist, the Procurement Specialist, and the Financial
 Management Specialist.




                                                                                                       68

  ANNEX 7: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS


A. FinancialManagement

1- Summaryofthe FinancialAssessment

Scope of Assessment. Based on project implementation arrangement, the overall responsibility for
financial management will remain with the NCU o f the Cameroon Community Development Program
Support Project (PAPNDP) and the day-to-day management carried out by the Coordinator, and the
environmentAand management specialist. Accordingly, the scope of assessment will be limited to the
NCU. However, given the decentralized nature o f the program, the coordination and reporting
mechanisms between the entities involved in the program and the NCU will be assessed to ensure that
arrangements in place will allow for smooth implementation of the program's activities as well as to
ensure that GEF Grant proceeds are usedonly for the purposes for which the funds are granted, with due
regard to economy, efficiency, and the sustainable achievement ofthe program's development objectives.

NCUFinancialmanagementCapacity.The capacity ofthe existingNCUis acceptable to IDA. The key
accounting, procurement, monitoring and evaluation staffs o f the NCU will undertake fiduciary activities
under GEF Grant. Under the supervision of the Coordinator, the financial management specialist will
have responsibility for the financial management and accounting o f GEF Grant. Specifically, he will be
responsible for (a) preparingactivity plans, monthly Special Account (SA) reconciliation statements, and
quarterly Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), withdrawal schedules, quarterly financial monitoring
reports, and annual financial statements; and (b) ensuring that the project financial management
arrangements are acceptable to the Government and IDA. H e will also be responsible for forwarding the
reports and statements to the Government and IDA. Therefore, a junior accountant will be recruited to
reinforce the NCU financial management team In addition the GEF grant will take advantage o f the
arrangementswithin the NCUnamely: (i) integrated financial management and monitoring system; (ii)
                                            an
a project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual; and (iii) selected external auditor whose
                                                                           a
contract will be extended to review GEF accounts. Inaddition, the existingtools which provide sufficient
and relevant information for managing and monitoring program activities will integrate activities under
GEF grant and updatedaccordingly.

Financial Management. The NCU through its financial management and accounting unit will have the
overall responsibility of the project financial management. They will have to maintain the project's
consolidated budget and accounts. To that end, the GEF Trust fund will be handled through the existing
computerized and integrated financial management which is appropriate to the scale of the project and
capable o f recording and reporting in a timely manner the program's by geographical locations,
components, activities, expenditure categories and origin o f funds. The computerized financial
management system is multi-currency and includes the following modules which should be integrated:
general accounting, cost accounting, monitoring and evaluation, assets management, preparation of
withdrawal applications and tracking o f disbursements by donors, reports generating, including quarterly
FMR(Financial Monitoring reports) and annual financial statements. Therefore, GEF trust Fundwill be
handled in a separate data base and its specific financial statements will be consolidated for reporting        *
purpose. Consequently, the existing computerized system will be updated and upgraded to a multi-
projects system. A fully functioning multi - projects financial management system satisfactory to the
Bank is considered as a condition of effectiveness.

A Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual is already in place and will be updated in
accordanceto GEF Trust Fundarrangements. It describes : (i) overall organization program including
                                                                  the
an organizational diagram andjob description o fthe key persons of the PIU including the accounting and
financial staff; (ii)
                    the accounting systemwhich will be on accrual basis; (iii) maintransactioncycles;
                                                                                   the
format, content, and timing o f the project financial reporting, i.e., financial statements and other financial
                                                                                                           69

reports including Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), filing system, etc.; (iv) the various operational
procedures including budget management (planning, execution and monitoring) and management of
assets, procurementof goods andservices, and disbursement; and (v) internal control procedures.
The Accounting ProceduresManual should be frequently updatedinthe light of practical experience and
during project implementation.

FinancialManagementRisk. The existing NCU control systems are operating efficiently despite a few
weaknesses in the audit and supervision of PAPNDP. Consequently various measures to mitigate these
risks have been agreed and thus the project risk from a financial management perspective could be
moderate provided the risk mitigating measures are properly addressed. Therefore financial management
arrangements are designedto ensure that funds are usedfor the purpose intended, and timely information
i s produced for project management and Government oversight, and facilitate the compliance with GEF
trust fundfiduciary requirements.

The financial management risks are related to : (i)the weak implementation capacity; (ii)the weak
implication of technical staff in internal control; (iii)the assessment of progress and related costs; (iv)
poor linkages between physical progress and financial outcomes; and (v) poor application of
sustainabilityindicators.

To mitigate these risks, the following has to be observed: (a) regular Bank supervisionmissionsincluding
SOE reviews and timely follow-up of management oversight issues, will be essential; (b) the planning
and budgetingactivity should be properly organized; (c) timely information on monitoring and evaluation
must be provided; and (d) clear definition of the role of the staff involved in the implementation of
activities.

Reporting.Quarterly and annual reports will be preparedby the National Coordination Unit.The format
of FMRs is the same as the one used by the PAPNDP at the country level. If needed, the content and
format will be reviewed and redefined by the NCU. On a quarterly basis, the following Financial
Monitoring Reports will be prepared by the NCU and submitted 45 days after the end of each calendar
quarter to the Bank. Financial Reports including a Statement showing inflows by sources and outflows by
mainexpenditure classificationsfor the period, and cumulatively (project life); and schedules comparing
actual and planned expenditures. The reports will also include budget forecast for the next quarter.
PhysicalProgressReportsProcurementReports.

Itwas agreed that the FMRs will includefinancial, physicalprogressandprocurementinformationthat is
useful to the Borrower while also providing the Bank with sufficient information to establish whether:
(i) disbursedtotheprojectarebeingusedforthepurposeintended;(ii) implementationison
    funds                                                                     project
track; and (iii)budgetedcost will not be exceeded. The annualfinancial statements preparedby the NCU
will comprise and will not be limited to : (i) the Statement of Source and Application of Funds for the
program during the current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of the program during the
current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of the program; the statement of expenditures,
(SOEs); (ii)the Special Account Statement/ Reconciliation; (iii)the Project Account Statement/
Reconciliationand any other financial report the Accountant deems necessary and relevant; and (iv) notes
to the Financial Statements.

Project Financial Management Capacity Strengthening Action Plan. To ensure that the above
mentioned Financial Management system requirement will be met in due time to declare project
effectiveness, an actionplan is proposedhere after with tasks to be performed as well as target completion
date.




                                                                                                         70

               Action                                        Tasks                           Target
                                                                                           Completion

1 Recruitment of ajunior accountant.
 -                                    PreparationofTORs and signature o fcontracts.
2- Finalizationo fthe Project         Up datingexistingPAPNDPAdministrative,              05/3012006
Administrative, Financialand          FinancialandAccountingManual.
AccountingManual.
3- Amendment of the contract o f      Up datingexternalauditTORs andaddan
PAPNDP's auditors.                    endorsementto PAPNDP's contract withthe audit
                                      firmto integrateGEF Trust Fundactivities.
4- Organizationof disbursement.       Opena specialaccountand4 second generation
                                      accounts.
                                      Up datingand upgradingexisting integratedFinancial  06130120061
FinancialManagementSystemand          management System, monitoringand evaluation
                                      svstem. Configuration. testing andtrainingstaff.

2- Audit Arrangements

The GEF grant will requirethe submission of AuditedProjectFinancial Statementsto IDA within six (6)
months after year-end. An independent qualified external auditor has been appointedunder PAPNDP on
TORSacceptable to IDA. GEF Grant will be audited by the auditor appointed under PAPNDP and the
TORSwill be updated accordingly. However, the auditor will provide a separate report with a single
opinion on the audited GEF Project Financial Statements in compliance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISAs) will be requiredincludingthe accuracy andthe propriety of expendituresmade under the
SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for grant disbursements. In
addition to the audit reports, the external auditors will prepare a Management Letter giving observations
and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements in accounting records, systems,
controls and compliance with financial covenants inthe Grant agreement. The audit scope will tailor the
project specific risks inaccordance with Bank requirementsand agreed with the Borrower. Extending the
contractof PAPNDP's auditorto includethe audit ofthe GEF grant is a condition of effectiveness.

Technical audit. Contracts with beneficiaries, for which templates are appended to the PIM, will be
subject to micro-project technical audits. These may be ordered and managed either systematically or
randomly, by the NCUor the PPUs. For this purpose, the project may hire outside firms.

3- DisbursementArrangements

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C). A computerized accounting and integrated financial
management system of PAPNDP will be adjustedbefore effectiveness to reflect the design of the GEF
project. The system will allow inputs at different levels to capture all disbursementsto be made under the
GEF project. In order to maintain the books and accounts of GEF and PAPNDP project activities
separately with the possibility of system consolidation, and to ensure that the production of the annual
financial statements of each project are done in a timely manner. The NCU and the PPUs computerized
program will be upgraded from a single-projectto a multi-project program. This integratedprogram will
allow not only a separate recordingand reporting of the GEF project activities but also their integration in
the overall PAPNDP recording and reporting system. This will also facilitate the audit ofthe GEF project
activities.

(a) Statement of Expenditures. Disbursementsfor all expendituresshouldbe againstfull documentation
for expenditure item under contracts valued at less than: (a) US$ 500,000 for goods; (b) US$200,000 for
consulting contracted awarded to firms; and (c) US$lOO,OOO            for consulting contracted awarded to
individuals; and civil works, all training and operating costs, which will be reimbursedon the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All the supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at the

                                                                                                         71

CaisseAutonome d'Amortissementandwill be readily accessiblefor review by periodic Bank supervision
missions and external auditors.

Inthe case ofthe funds for grantsto be madeto communities, there will bepre-financing ofexpenditures,
as communities are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of funds. All disbursements against
expenditures under the Local Development Fundwill be subject to simplified accounting procedures and
ex post financial and physical audits and technical audit, on a sample basis, to be carried out by auditors
contracted by the project.

(b) Special Account. The GEF project will have one main Special Account and four Second Generation
Accounts to facilitate the project implementationand reduce the volume of withdrawal applications. The
Government will open one Special Account (SA) in CFA Francs in a commercial bank in terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. This Special Account will be used to finance the micro-projects and
operating costs for NCU/PPUs. The authorized allocation for SA will be CFA Francs 300 millions and
will cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Detailed description methods to be used in making
payment from the SA will be specified inthe disbursement letter and in the project's Administrative and
FinancialManual.

Disbursement from the GEF grant would initially be made on the basis o f incurred eligible expenditures
(transaction based disbursements). Disbursement profile has been estimated on the basis o f the general
profile for project in Cameroon and covers the four year period of the project. Upon credit effectiveness,
GEF will deposit the amount ofCFA Francs 300 millions inthe SA representingthe total allocation ofthe
special account. The Special Accounts will be used for all payments in an amount below 20% o f the
initial deposit to the Special Accounts. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly. Further
deposits by GEF into the Special Accounts will be made against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documents.

In addition to the main Special Account, the Government will open four Second Generation Special
Accounts at the provincial level in the Province du Nord, Province de 1'Ouest, Province du Centre and
Province de Udamaoua, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the GEF. The project shall withdraw
from the main Special Account and deposit an amount not to exceed CFA Francs 50 millions into each
Second Generation Special Account. These funds will be used to finance the micro-projects proposed by
communities and other project activities eligible to GEF financing.

Flow of funds. Resources necessary for financing the project's activities will come from GEF Grant
Accounts in Washington, D.C., for Authorized Withdrawal and the Replenishment o f Special Account
opened in a Commercial Bank acceptable by GEF for all project expenditures to be financed by GEF
resources (community micro-projects and others activities). The existing PAPNDP disbursement system
will be strengthenedto ensure timely and reliable flow o f funds to the enduser at the community level.


                                           (1000) USD                     % o fexpenditures
Goods, equipment, and                           110                              100%
vehicles
Consultants' services & Audits                  750                              100%
Micro Projects under Part A                    3600                              100%
Operating Costs                                 250                              100%
Training                                       1000                              100%
Unallocated                                     290                              100%
TOTAT,                                         6000



                                                                                                        72

                         ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS


A. General

ProcurementEnvironment

A new procurement code was approved on September 24, 2004. The adoption of the new procurement
code improved the legal and institutional frameworks. No special exceptions, permits or licenses needto
be specified in the Grant Agreement since the new procurement code allows IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. However, the latest audits o f public
contracts by independentexperts revealedpersistent weakness inprocurement operations and practices

The Country Procurement and Assessment Review (CPAR) conducted in 2005 indicates significant
achievements inthe procurement reform undertaken over the past five years. Giventhat the four pillars o f
the systems are in place (the rating o f the Baseline Indicators System is 69 percent), the Government
should now focus on capacity building compliance as well as on monitoring and evaluation o f the
performance of the system in the public and private sector. The Government action plan, adopted at the
end o f 2005, includes: (i)preparation and adoption of a procurement capacity building program; (ii)
implementation o f a computerized procurement system to better manage planning, execution and
monitoring & evaluation of procurement operations; (iii)    building capacity to supervise and follow-up
contract execution and (iv) implementation of specific actions to ensure compliance with and sanctions of
infractions of the Procurement rules and regulations.

Guidelines

Procurement for this project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Development Credit Agreement. Procurement (works, goods and non-consulting services) or
consultant selection methods, prequalification, estimated costs, prior reviewrequirements, andtime-frame
would be agreed in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents or
Cameroon's National StandardBiddingDocuments satisfactory to the Bankwill be used.
Procurement (works, goods and services) for community-based micro-project- will be procured on the
basis of community participation in accordance with the clause 3.17 o f the World Bank Procurement
Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement), and the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement
and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) detailed in the Project
ImplementationPlans approved by the Bank.

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN), ifnecessary, will be prepared by the Borrower and publishedin
the United Nations Development Business online (UNDB online) and in the Development Gateway
Market (dgMarket) following Board Approval, to announce major consulting assignments and any ICB'.
The GPN shall include all goods contracts under ICB (above US$500,000), and all large consulting
contracts (i.e., those estimated to cost US$200,000 or more). Inaddition, a specific procurementnotice is
required for all goods to be procured under ICB and request for expression o f interest for contract
expected to cost more than US$200,000 shall be advertised in UNDB online and in dgMarket. An
Expression o f Interest (EOI) is required inthe national gazette or a national newspaper or in an electronic

'ICB:  International Competitive Bidding
                                                                                                         73

portal o f free access for all consulting firm services regardless o f the contract amount. In the case o f
NCB2, a specific procurement notice will be published in the national gazette or a national newspaper or
an electronic portal o f free access. Contracts awards will also be published inUNDB and dghlarket, in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (para. 2.60) and Consultants Guidelines(para. 2.28).

ProcurementofWorks

No major Works is overseen, under Component 1,apart from small community-based works such as anti-
erosive works, plantingworks, etc. Small works for community-based micro-projects will be procured on
the basis of community participation inaccordance with the clause 3.17 of the World Bank Procurement
Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement), and the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement
and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments(February 1998). These small works are estimated
to cost less than US$50,000 per contract. They may be procuredunder the shopping procedure for works.
Underthis procedure, lump sum, fixed price contracts are awarded on the basis of quotations solicited in
writing from at least three qualified     domestic contractors. The invitation shall include a detailed
description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f
agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. Quotations should be opened at
the same time and to the extent possible in the presence of community members. The awards will be
made to the contractor offering the lowest price quotes and having the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. Insome remote areas, it may be difficult to obtain 3 quotations. Under
such circumstances, direct contracting could be considered when the cost to the community of another
procedure would be disproportionately highrelative to the value o fthe procurement itself, and where only
one contractor is available locally. The contractor can thus be chosen without going through the shopping
procedures, provided the costs are inline with the local market rates.

Procurementof Goods

Goods procured under this project would include: vehicles, furniture, and office equipment. The
procurement will be done usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB. Goods to be financed will be grouped into
package of at least US$500,000 equivalent to be procured through ICB.

Contracts for goods that have to be purchased on an annual basis, and for other goods and equipment,
available on the local market at a competitive price, with a unit value exceeding US$50,000 equivalent
and which cannot be grouped together into packages exceeding US$500,000 equivalent, will be awarded
on the basis o f NCB. Goods that cannot be grouped into bid packages o f US$50,000 or more may be
procured by direct contracting through shopping according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Vehicles
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract may also be procured by Direct Contracting, through
the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement ServicesOffice (IAPSO).

Inthe absence of national standard biddingdocuments, the Bank's Standard BiddingDocument (SBD)
will be used for NCB, with appropriate modifications relating to provisions for "advertising and
notification",  "currencies of bid and payment", "settlement o f disputes", deletion o f the domestic
preference provision, etc. This should ensure that: (i) methods used to evaluate bids and award contracts
are known to all bidders and not applied arbitrarily; (ii)all bidders have adequate response time (four
weeks) to prepare and submit bids; (iii) evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in
                                           bid
biddingdocuments; (iv) no preference margin is grantedto domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are
not excluded from participation; (vi) awards are made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with
pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports clearly state the reasons for the
rejection of any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to the issuance o f first bidding invitation, draft




 NCB: National Competitive Bidding
                                                                                                        74

standard bidding documents, prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual, are submitted to IDA for
review.

Procurementof non-consultingservices

As in the case of works and goods, non-consulting services required for the execution of the micro-
projects will be procured using Community Participation procedures. The NCU is also expected to
acquire some non-consulting services, such as those requiredfor training events and project information
campaigns. Non-Consulting services are likely not to exceed the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract.
Procurement o f such services will be done using prudent shopping procedures in conformity with the
clause 3.5 of the procurement guidelines.

Community-Basedprocurement

The project will finance community-based micro-projects. The micro-projects will comprise activitiesthat
will complement and co-finance PAPNDP community driven micro-projects on sustainable land
management in its priority areas. These micro-projects would enable communities to help retard and
reverse land degradation conserving the unique biodiversity (including agro-biodiversity)             hence
improving its productivity. The activities to be supported include: mitigation measures for reducing soil
erosionand water runoff, contour planting, renewal of degradedhillsides andpastures, ecologically sound
water management, application of conservation tillage systems, crop cover, windbreaks, grassed
waterways, etc. N o micro-project grant shall be in excess of CFA Francs 4 million (equivalent of
US$S,OOO) for a community micro-projects and CFA Francs 20 million (equivalent of US$40,000) for a
communal micro-project. Fundingfor these activities will be under the form of grants. The procurement
methods for micro-projects, according to Section D of the Bank's Guidelinesfor SimplifiedProcurement
and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments(February 1998) are:
        0   Local Shopping for Goods
            Local Shopping for Works
        0   Local Biddingfor goods and works
        0   Direct Contracting/Off the shelf purchases

Financing of activities, for which a negative list exists, will depend on applications received from
communities. Due to their demand-driven nature, it is not possible to predetermine the exact mix o f
goods, small works, and services to be procured in connection with these activities. The Project
Implementation Manual will describe procedures and tools in a special chapter based on the Bank's
Guidelinesfor SimplifiedProcurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February
 1998). The NCU, the PPUs, the NGOsor the technical agents will be responsible for ensuringcompliance
with these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of randommicro-projects will be conducted periodically by the
Bank and independenttechnical auditors.

Selectionof Consultants

Consulting services will be for the following activities: (i)
                                                            technical assistance; (ii)
                                                                                     feasibility studies; and
(iii)financial and technical audit, etc. These consulting services will be procured with the most
appropriate method among the following which are allowed by Bank guidelines and included in the
approved procurement plan: Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), Quality-Based Selection (QBS),
Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB), Least-Cost Selection (LCS). Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) for assignments that shall not exceed US$lOO,OOO. Single Source selection shall also
be usedwith IDA'Sagreement. All Terms o fReference will be subject to IDAprior review.




                                                                                                          75

Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may
be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

Assignments in excess of US$200,000, and specialized technical assistance assignments, must be
procured on the basis of international short-lists after appropriate advertisement in UNDB on line,
DgMarket and inthe national gazette or a nationalnewspaper or inan electronic portal of free access.

Consultant for services meeting the requirements of section V of the consultant guidelines, will be
selected, under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants, through comparison of
qualifications among candidates expressing interest inthe assignmentor approached directly.

OperationalCosts

Sundry items and other incremental recurring costs which would be financed by the project would be
procured using the project's financial and administrative procedures manual which were reviewed and
found acceptable by the Bank.For efficiency purpose, office supply will be procured on the basis of 6 to
12 months' need, through a competitive process. With respect to services (car maintenance, computers
maintenance, etc.), the project will procure by service contracting for a definedperiod.

Trainings,Workshops,Seminarsand Conferences

Training, workshops, seminars and conferences attendance and study tours will be carried out onthe basis
of approved annual programs that will identifythe general framework o f training and similar activities for
the year, including the nature of traininghtudy tours/workshops, the number o f participants, and cost
estimates.

B.Assessmentofthe borrower's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurementcapacity

Project administration and monitoring will be the responsibility of the NCU. Procurement activities will
be carried out by the NCU which was put in place in 2004 to manage the PAPNDP. A procurement
capacity assessment of the N C U was conducted at pre-appraisal The Bank assessment o f the capacity o f
the NCU to implement procurement actions for the project has been based on the N C U satisfactory
performance to date in implementingthe PAPNDP, and developing and adapting the project operational
manuals for both the current project and the PAPNDP. The N C U has also an experienced procurement
specialist. It was noted that the Procurement Specialist was overloaded because he works on many tasks
which are not directly related to procurement, such as the filing o f procurement documents, etc. In order
to enable him to effectively carry out his main responsibilities, it was recommended the recruitment o f a
Procurement Assistant to work full time with the procurement unit o f the NCU. In addition, an actions
plan has beenelaboratedto reinforce further the capacity of the procurement unit.

The overallproject riskfor procurement is moderate.

The following correctives measures have been agreed upon: (i)       improving procurement record keeping;
(ii)preparing and submittingto IDA a procurement planprior to negotiations; (iii)preparingand
submittingto IDA an updated PAPNDP manualof procedures by appraisal; (iv) preparingand submitting
to IDA an updated PAPNDP Implementation Manual with a detailed section on the Sustainable Agro-
pastoral and Land Management Promotion; and (v) strengthening the capacity o f the procurement
specialist and the procurement assistant, as needed, in the application o f Bank new guidelines o f May
2004, and inaccordance with an approved training program.

                                                                                                         76

To ensure that the above mentioned procurement corrective measures will be met in due time, an action
plan is proposed hereafter with tasks to be performed, responsible body as well as time-frame:

Scheduleof actions to be carriedout




                                                                      annual training program




                                                                      prior to effectiveness




I specificto procurement                       II andexternal        1project's life                    I
                                                  Auditors

Duringappraisal, the implementationofthe above actions planhas been assessed.

Procurementinstitutionalresponsibility and implementationarrangement

The institutional responsibility for procurement has been agreed upon during appraisal. Procurement
management under this project will be the responsibility o f the NCU and the micro-project management
committees.

The NCU comprises a Procurement Unit, which is already staffed with a Procurement Specialist. A
Procurement Assistant, under recruitment for that unit, will report to the PAPNDP's Procurement
Specialist at the national level.

The NCU will be responsible for coordinating implementation, including monitoring compliance with
relevant procurement procedures. Procurement for micro-projects will be outlined in the Development
Grant Agreement, in accordance with the clause 3.17 o f the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines
(Community Participation in Procurement), and the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments (February 1998). Award o f contracts will be realized in
due respect of the Government procurement code regarding the composition and the mandates o f the
memberso fthe procurement commissions such as: (i) special procurement commission established by
                                                        the
the prime minister decree dated December 11, 2003; and (ii)the specialized procurement control
commission. It's the N C U responsibility to ensure that the necessary national clearances and approvals
have been received before the No-Objection requests are transmitted to the World Bank. Procurement
steps at national level that need approval from particular procurement commissions or organs, with
respect to specific price thresholds, will be defined in the PAPNDP update Administrative Financial and
Accountant Manual.

                                                                                                     77

ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, provided a procurement plan which was discussed at negotiations. It will be
available in the Project's database and a summary will be updated on the Bank's external website. The
Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect
the actual project implementationneeds.

C.      Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the prior reviewsupervision to becarried out from Bankoffices, the capacity assessment of
the PCU has recommended at least once a year supervision missions to visit the field to carry out post
review o fprocurement actions.

D.       TechnicalAudit

Grants to beneficiaries through micro-projects will be subject to technical audits. These should be
conducted randomly on an annual basis by independent auditors recruited by the NCU. Besides these
technical audits, the NCUmay order and manage random controls of the execution o f the micro-projects.
During project implementation and up to two years after the closing date of the Grant Agreement, all
documentation with respect to each micro-project shall be kept for examination.

E.Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangements

1. Goods, andNonConsultingServices

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured:

    1             2            3            4          5             6          7
                           Estimated                                         Review
                              cost                  Prequalifi Domestic     by Bank
   Ref.       Contract        (US$     Procurement   -cation   Preference    (Prior /
   No.     (Description)   equivalent) Method       (yesho)    (yeslno)       Post)
   1      Office           10,000      Shopping (3  No     '   No           Post
          equipment
          (Desks, chairs,
          photocopy,
          fax, filing
  -       cabinet)
  2       Computer         20,000                                                         07/10/2006 10/20/2006
          equipment
          (desktop,
          laptop, printer,
          andother
  -       accessories)                             I          I            I             ~




  3       Vehicles         91,300      NCBOAPSO     No         No           Post
  -
  4       GISequipment     70,000      NCB         INo        INo          IPost

(b) ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$SOO,OOO for goods per contract and all Direct Contracting
will be subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                                                                        78

2. Consulting Services

(a) List o f consulting assignments with selection methods and time schedule.




(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 for firms and US$lOO,OOO for individuals
per contract, and Single Source selection of consultants (firms and individuals) will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services estimated
to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions ofparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.




  CQS: SelectionBasedon Consultants' Qualifications
4 QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection
  SSS: Single Source Selection
 *Prior reviewbecausemember of staff from the PCU
                                                                                                           79

                               ANNEX 9: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

I. ECONOMICANALYSIS

Value addedand mainstakeholders
A successful implementationo fthe Project will have a significant impact on Cameroon's economy:

1. The State

As a whole, the project will enhance the Government and public services' capacities in mainstreaming
sustainable landmanagementpractices.
The expected outcomes include:
0   Increased o f arable landavailable and the restoratiodimprovemento f its production potential;
0   Food security strengthened, as a result of the improvement of agro-silvopastoral and halieutic
    production;
0   Desertification and biodiversity loss in fragile landscape reduced via enhanced adoption of soil
    conservation measures, rehabilitation o f riparian zones, management o f protected area and buffer
    zones;
0   Social stability strengthened through reduction o f recurrent land use conflicts between
    agriculturalists, herders and foresters: at least 10 conflicts management frameworks will be set up;
    and
0   Statetax revenues raised, as a result of increasedagro-silvopastoral productivity.

2. Communes

The outcomes are:
  -      Strengthenedcapacities of communes in the design and planning o f local development plans
         and inmainstreaming SLMpractices; and
         Increased communal taxes revenues, as a result of an increaseinbeneficiaries' revenues.

3. Localcommunities

Anticipated outcomes include an increase infarm income and productivity:
About 10,000 rural households on the project site are expected to benefit directly from the project
through community and communal SLM micro-projects. The dissemination o f SLM technologies will
improve the productivity o f the land and hence, the level o f production. Exampleso f past and ongoing
similar projects have shown that the adoption o f SLM technologies requiring little cash investments,
may lead to production increase among beneficiaries, rangingfrom 30 percent to 50 percent for the main
crops inthe project area, dependingon the technology used; and 20 percent for animal production. It is
assumedthat the production increase will lead to a rise inrevenues and an improvement inthe livelihood
of beneficiaries.

The project will contribute to strengthening the social capital through the promotion and appropriation
of local development processes by local communities. It will reinforce existing capacities inthe design
andplanningo f localdevelopment plans andthe integrationo f SLMbest practices.

4. Environment

The capacity building o f main stakeholders will foster the integration o f SLM and biodiversity
conservation concerns -inthe elaboration o f development strategies and local development plans. As a


                                                                                                      80

result there will be a more ratisnal management of natural resources, an increase o f land productivity
and a better protection of fragile ecosystems.

The implementation of communal land use and management plans and dissemination of SLM best
practices will reduce the pressure on the buffer zones, thereby ensuring the integrity and conservation o f
gallery forest, wildlife and biodiversity. Finally, the project will contribute to an increase in vegetative
cover and carbon sequestration.

11.     FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

1. FINANCIAL VIABILITY OF TECHNOLOGIES DISSEMINATED WITH RESPECT TO
   BENEFICIARIES' INCOME

As technologies disseminated are specific (i.e., replication o f best SLM practices developed by local
communities), their adoption does not lead to a significant increase in production costs; the risk o f
incurring financial losses is therefore negligible. This is even more crucial due to the low average
household income which ranges from 150 000 to 170 000 CFA Francs per annum (less than $1 per day).

2. PROJECTCOST
The project total cost is US$6.71 million of which Project participation is US$6.35 million and
beneficiaries' contribution amounts to US$0.36 million.

3. INTERNAL AND ECONOMIC RATESOF RETURN
  The Projectdoes not lenditselfto cost-benefit analysis for the following reasons:
  -      Investments to be supported by the project are demand-driven, and their nature cannot be
         known beforehand.
  -
  -      Most o fthe micro-projects, would not be productive innature.
         The economic benefits o f capacity-building are difficult to quantify. So are the benefits related
         to the qualitative improvement ofthe environment.
  -      The technologies disseminated require very little cash outlay by the beneficiaries and have a
          great potential to increaseproduction.




                                                                                                           81

                           ANNEX 10: SAFEGUARD POLICY ISSUES



The Sustainable Ago-Pastoral and Land Management Promotion under the Community Driven
Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP) Project will complement the implementation of
PAPNDP's micro-projects through the GEF project's support for sustainable land managementpractices
such as ecologically sound water management, conservation tillage, windbreaks, and the renewal of
degraded hillsides and pastures. PAPNDP's micro-projects are expected to focus on collective public
service infrastructures, public commercialequipment, and management of natural resources. The micro-
projects will be identified and implemented by community-based organizations and rural communities,
including Pygmies and Mbororos to the extent that they are present at the project sites. Criteria for the
selectionof sites and micro-projectshave beendetermined. Inlight of the project's complementarity with
PAPNDP, the GEF project has triggered the Bank's operational policies on Environmental Assessment
(OP 4.01) and IndigenousPeoples (OP 4.10).

OP4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment

The GEF project has triggered OP 4.01 because its support for sustainable land management practices
will complement PAPNDP's investments in micro-projects such as schools, health posts, latrines, water
supply and sanitation, roads, livestock markets, small scale irrigation, livestock passages, rangeland
improvements, and potential environmentalcommunity micro-projects such as soil protection and forest
management.

Therefore, the project will apply PAPNDP's Environmental and Social ManagementFramework (ESMF)
dated June 2003. The ESMF outlines an environmental and social screeningprocess for micro-projects,
provides guidance regardingthe identification, implementation and monitoring of mitigation measures,
the need for separate environmental assessments, and outlines institutional arrangements as well as cost
estimates for the effective implementationof the ESMF.

The project will apply the afore-mentionedESMF to assess potential negative environmental and social
impacts of micro-projects and, based on the screeningresults, to develop mitigation measures designedto
introduce and expand sustainable land management practices such as ecologically sound water
management, conservation tillage, windbreaks, and the renewal of degraded hillsides and pastures. The
screening results will further identify the need for environmental community projects which would
benefit significantly from the project's support. The ESMF will be applied inconjunction with criteria for
the selection of sites and micro-projects currently under preparation. To meet the requirements of the
Bank's disclosure policy, the ESMFwill be re-disclosedat the Infoshop prior to appraisal.

Complementing PAPNDP's investment and related training activities, the GEF project will provide
additional capacity building resources to allow for the development and implementation of effective
sustainable land management practices under the micro-projects as well as the planning and
implementationof environmental community micro-projects. Thus, at the national level, the project will
benefit from the presence of PAPNDP's Environmental Specialist whose responsibilities include
(i)supervision of the implementation of the ESMF and monitoring of the reporting of project outputs;
(ii) with relevantagencies atthe provincial, communalandvillage levelsas well as withthe
    liaison
Minist2re de I'Environnement et de la Protection de la Nature (MINEP) and other line agencies; and
(iii)provision of support to the provinces, communes and villages through information dissemination,
organizingtraining and workshops, and identifying institutional needs.

To ensure that the environmental and social aspects of PAPNDP and the GEF project are effectively
managed, PAPNDP's Environmental Specialist will arrange for training under PAPNDP in the areas of
environmental management and environmental assessment as follows: (i)at the provincial level for
                                                                                                       82

members of the Provincial Decision Committee; (ii)at the communal level for members of the Council-
level Decision Committee-both committees includerepresentativesofthe Ministry of Environment; and
(iii) thecommunitylevel.Themembersoftheafore-mentionedDecisionCommitteeswouldreceive
      at
training such as environmental impact assessment; mitigation measures suitable for PAPNDP micro-
projects, environmentalmonitoringand evaluation, incorporatingenvironmentalmitigation measures, and
selectionofNGOs who will work with the Pygmies inthe project area.

In addition, the above training programs will include training supported by the GEF project for
sustainable land management, as required, to complement PAPNDP-funded micro-projects. The project
will also fund sustainable land management training for those NGOs which are already working with
communes (currently, 23 out of 33 out of a total of 339 communes). Some of these NGOs are currently
training communities in the implementation of the ESMF, while others are in the field preparingLocal
DevelopmentPlans as well as feasibility studies ofthe mainmicro-projects such as schools, water supply
and roads, andto carry out the required environmentaland social screening. Right now, these NGOs are
not conversantwith the negative environmentalimpacts of landdegradation, and therefore would require
relevant training. The members of the above Decision Committees would also be trained in general
environmentalprotection topics such as conservationtechniques to restore soils; wetlands management;
reforestationandthe establishmentof seed nurseries.

OP4.10 IndigenousPeoples

Due to its complementarity with PAPNDP, the GEF project has triggered OP 4.10 becausethe Pygmies
living in the project area will also benefit from investments in micro-projects and sustainable land
management practices. Thus, the GEF project will contribute to the implementation of PAPNDP's
IndigenousPeoples Development Plan (PDP) datedJune 2003, on the basis of needs as identifiedby the
Pygmy populations living in the project area. As discussed below, consultants have been hired to study
the capacity building needs of the Pygmies as identified in the afore-mentionedIPDP. The results from
the study will be considered during project implementation Both the pre-appraisalmission (July 2005)
and the Study mission (August 2005) visited two and three Pygmy settlements respectively near Kribi to
get a better understandingoftheir biggestconcerns and interests regardingthe proposedGEF project.

The pre-appraisalmissionvisited the Awomo Settlement inBiboulmame andthe Nyamabande Settlement
inNy&C (HEVECAM plantation)whereas the study missionvisited three additional settlement locatedat
24, 30 and40 kmfrom Kribirespectivelyalongthe Atlantic ocean coast to (i)       understandwhat their main
concernsare on the ground with regardto SustainableLandManagement issues; (ii) are the locally
                                                                                         what
used mechanisms of addressinghesolvingboth SLM and social conflict issues; and (iii) ascertain the
                                                                                              to
 interest inmicro-projectsand sustainablelandmanagement on the part ofthe Pygmy population.

Both missions noted that the Pygmies were primarily interested in (i)improving their settlements'
 livelihood, for example, through the construction of stone houses with metal roofs; (ii) goats in
                                                                                              raising
 addition to the chickens and ducks they currently hold, and hunting wildlife and collecting non-timber
 forest products; (iv) improving the yields of their crops such as cassava, manioc, and bananas; (v)
 providing reliable primary education to their children and having them continue to attend secondary
 school to be able to support and defend their interest with regard to their civil and property rights over
time (they really wish to have schools for their communitieswith Pygmy teachers); (vi) obtaining ahealth
 post with a trainedlocal nurseto have access to modernmedicinewhile still safeguardingtheir traditional
 medicinepractices; (vii) constructing safe water wells at the center of each settlement and for the benefit
 of their communities; (vii) obtaining identification cards andbirthcertificatesto facilitate interactions, not
 only among themselves, but more likely with the populations living outside the settlements, interested
 donors agencies, public and private companies/agencies (have equal and safe access to property, bank
 accounts/credits, Government institutions with an equal consideration); and also (viii) safe employment
 on the rubberplantation.

                                                                                                            83

The missions further noted that the Pygmy populations visited inKribi(Southern province) had heardthe
term HIV/AIDS/Condoms, but they did not know what it entails; sanitation facilities were non-existent,
rather they use nature to satisfy their human needs. In some of the settlements, we were told that the
children hadto stop attending school because the parentscould not afford to pay for their tuition, required
books and uniforms. Thus, it appears that - ifasked-the Pygmy populations inthe project area would be
able to identify their own needs, prioritize them and subsequently benefit from investments in micro-
projects and sustainable land managementpractices, as these would directly contribute to an improvement
intheir livelihoods andwelfare.

IPDP.Basedonthe recommendations of this plan, consultants have beenhiredto carry out a study ofthe
needs for capacity building and training among the Pygmies to ensure their effective participation in
PAPNDP. The study includes recommendations, among others, as to how to (i)         strengthen their capacity
for environmental and social management of their micro-projects as outlined in the ESMF; and
(ii)facilitate their participation in PAPNDP's monitoring and evaluation activities to ensure that micro-
projects meet their needs and to generate employment opportunities for Pygmies. In this context, the
Pygmies in the project area will also benefit from training in sustainable land management practices,
especially conflict resolution and management mechanism to build peace between them and the Bantus,
as well as with any other neighbor, and ifrequested, training and assistance in the establishment o f
community forests andtraditional huntingzones.

The mainrecommendations o fthe IPDP includethe establishment of: (i) legal opportunities such as
                                                                            equal
the provision o f ID cards and the establishment of community forests or traditional hunting zones;
(ii)technical opportunities such as equal participation inthe elaboration o f communal development plans
and development o f local action plans; (iii)equal financial opportunities such as special programs for
Pygmies to benefit from job creation opportunities and subsidized rates for AFDCR financed projects;
(iv) equal organizational opportunities such as the inclusion o f representatives in the various PAPNDP
committees and the provision o f training on intercultural communication to civil servants and councilors
working in the subdivisions with Pygmy populations; and (v) equal cultural opportunities such as
assisting Baka and Kola associations in capacity building to preserve the loss of traditional knowledge,
culture and livelihood patterns, and fostering the creation o f forums for communication and exchange
between Pygmies and other ethnic groups and accompany this process of mutualunderstanding.

 Since implementation o f the entire IPDP will take time, the consultant proposed that an ad hoc IPDP
Committee be established under PAPNDP. The ad-hoc Committee should be composed of: one
representative o f the PAPNDP (Coordinator); one representative o f the Ministhre des Afaires Sociales
(MINAS - sub-department of marginalized populations); one representative o f an international NGO
(which i s already working with Baka, Kola and Aka in Cameroon and are prepared to provide their own
fundingfor working with this committee -ifthere are more than one NGO interestedto participate, they
 should form a network similar to the nationalnetwork o fNGOs RACOPY; one representative o f national
NGOs (RACOPY); one representative of CODEBABIK; andtwo representatives of ASBAK.

 The IPDP further recommends that duringthe pilot phase, the main focus should be on the establishment
 of the institutional framework, the sensitization of all stakeholders in general and the affected population
 inparticular, the gathering of baseline data andthe testing ofmore detailed activities inthe pilot councils
 of the PAPNDP. The plan further recommends that during the establishment o f the various committees
 (council, provincial, andnational levels) which will involve all Baka, KolaandAka settlements, the IPDP
 should be discussed indetail.




                                                                                                          84

               ANNEX 11: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION


                                            Planned                    Actual
PCNreview                                   May 30,2005                June 1,2005
Initial PIDto PIC                           June 15,2005               June 16,2005
InitialISDS to PIC                          June 15,2005               June 16,2005
Appraisal                                   October 10, 2005           January 16-February 11,2006
Negotiations                                January 16,2006            March 20-23,2006
BoardIRVP approval                          May 25,2006
Planneddate ofeffectiveness                 September 1,2006
Planneddate of mid-term review              September 1,2008
Plannedclosing date                         March1,2011

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationofthe project:
Ministry ofPlanning, DevelopmentProgramming, andRegionalDevelopment

Bank staff andconsultants who worked onthe project included:
Name                                    Title                                    Unit
Ousmane Seck                            Task TeamLeader                          AFTS3
FathmaD. Jalloh                         Junior ProfessionalAssociate             AFTS3
FranqoisMkouonga                        Rural Development Specialist             AFTS3
Valerie Layrol                          RuralDevelopmentOfficer                  AFTS3
ErickC.M. Fernandes                     Adviser                                  ARD
Sheela. Reddi                           LanguageProgramAssistant                 AFTS3
EdeltrautGilgan-Hunt                    Environmental Specialist                 AFTS2
Yvette L.Djachechi                      Senior SocialDevelopmentSpecialist       AFTS3
Kouami Messan                           ProcurementAnalyst                       AFTPC
PinFoon(Marie-Louise) Ah-Kee            ProcurementAnalyst                       AFTS3
FridolinOndobo                          Financial ManagementSpecialist           AFTFM
Germaine Mafougong                      TeamAssistant                            AFMCM
IngridMollard                           Consultant                               AFTS2
DBsirB R. Coquillat                     Consultant                               AFTS3
Cheikh A.T. Sagna                       Consultant                                HDNED
GlennHodes                              ET Consultant                             ENVCF
Gilles M.Veuillot                       Counsel                                   LEGAF
PierreMorin                             Senior Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Wolfgang M.T. Chadab                    FinanceOfficer                            LOAG2

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources:         US$ 40,000
     2. Trust funds:            US$415,000
     3. Total:                  US$455,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval:            US$15,000
     2. Estimatedannualsupervisioncost:        US$60,000




                                                                                              85

                  ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTSINTHE PROJECTFILE


a.   ProjectImplementationPlan
  i. ImplementationManual(ie., Manueld'Exe`cution)-completedandadoptedduringnegotiations
  ii. MonitoringandEvaluationManual(Le.,ManueldeSuivietEvaluation)-completedandadopted
      during negotiations
 iii. Accounting,Financial,andAdministrativeProceduresManual(Le.,ManueldeProce`dures
      Comptables,Administratives, et FinanciBres)  - completedand adoptedduring negotiations

b.    BankStaffAssessments
    0 Aide-memoire for the Pre-AppraisalMission @e., Aide-me`moirede la missiondeprGdvaluation)

      Aide-memoire for the Appraisal Mission (Le., Aide-me`moirede la mission d'e`valuation)-
      - July-AuguSt2005
    0
      January 2006

c.    Reportsof Studiesand other Outputs
    0 Report ofthe "Review of Institutional, Legislative, and Policy FrameworksBottlenecksfor
      proper SLMImplementation -$nalized and adoptedduringproject appraisal)
                                 "

    0 Reportofthe "Detailed StakeholderAnalysis and Capacity-Building Assessment" -finalized and
      adoptedduringproject appraisal)
    0 Report ofthe "Inventory andAssessment ofthe Cultural andTechnical Feasibility of Soil
      ProtectionandRestoration" -completedand adoptedduringproject appraisal)
    0 Report ofthe "Baseline Study" -finalized and adoptedduringproject appraisal)
    0 Reportofthe "Study of Innovative and Successful Practicesin S L M ' -finalized and adopted
      duringproject appraisal)

d.    Other
    0 Environmentaland SocialManagementFramework(ESMF) preparedfor the PAPNDP (June
      2003)
    0 IndigenousPeopleDevelopmentPlan(IPDP) preparedfor the PAPNDP (June 2003)




                                                                                                86

                               ANNEX 13: STATEMENTOFLOANSAND CREDITS


                                                                                                                          Difference between
                                                                                                                          expected andactual
                                                                Original Amount inUS$Millions                                disbursements

Project ID    FY   Purpose                                  IBRD         IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig.    Fnn.Rev'd

PO73629      2004  CM-Com Dev Prog Sup APL (FY04)              0.00      20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      17.28      -1.14       0.00
PO54786      2003  CMRAILWAY CONCESSIONPROJECT                 0.00      21.39      0.00     0.00     0.00      6.93       -0.58       0.00
                   (FY03)
PO74490      2003  CM DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE                    0.00      56.35      0.00     0.00     0.00      64.54       9.59       2.90
                   PROJECT
PO73065      2001  CAM :Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project        0.00      50.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      17.12     -39.72       2.69
PO48204      2000  CMENVIRONMENT OIL T.A.                      0.00       5.77      0.00     0.00     0.00      4.12        3.12       0.00
                   (CAPECE)
PO51059      2000  TDKM PIPELME (CAMEROON)                    53.40       0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       0.05      -0.28       0.00
PO65927      2000  PublicprivatePartnership,Growth             0.00      20.90      0.00     0.00     0.00      12.08      10.55       -0.05
                                                     Total:   53.40     174.41      0.00     0.00     0.00     122.12    - 18.46        5.54


                                                            CAMEROON
                                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                         IFC

        FY Approval   Company                      Loan      Equity       Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Eauitv       Quasi      Partic

         1995         AEF Comp Avicole             0.34         0.00        0.00       0.00      0.34       0.00       0.00        0.00
        2002          AEF FME-GAZ                  0.00         0.00        0.23       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.23        0.00
        2000          AEF Hobec                    0.47         0.00        0.00       0.00      0.19       0.00       0.00        0.00
         1996         AEF Notacam                  0.89         0.00        0.00       0.00      0.89       0.00       0.00        0.00
         1999         AEF Saicam                   0.00         0.00        0.17       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.17        0.00
         2002         AEF UC-Phann                 2.95         0.00        0.00       0.00      2.57       0.00       0.00        0.00
         2000         BICEC                        0.00         0.90        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.90       0.00        0.00
         1986         CICAM                        0.00         0.00        2.47       0.00      0.00       0.00       2.47        0.00
         2000         COTCO                        77.15        0.00        0.00       77.15    77.15       0.00       0.00      77.15
         2002         OrangeCameroun               8.01         0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
         1998103      PectenCameroon               44.00        0.00        0.00       54.55    15.54       0.00       0.00       22.46

                                 Total portfilio:   133.81      0.90        2.87     131.70     96.68       0.90       2.87       99.61


                                                                    ~~          ~~    ~


                                                                                ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                       FY Approval     Company                            Loan         Equity     Quasi        Partic.

                       2000            AEF Complexe I1                 0.00             0.00       0.00         0.00
                                            Total pendingcommitment:      0.00          0.00       0.00         0.00




                                                                                                                                     87

                                             ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
                                                                                      Sub-
                                                                                  Saharan
                                                                  Cameroon           Africa    in
2004
Population                                                              16.4           719       2,338
GNI per ca                                                              800            600         510                          Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                                                                       T
GNI (Atlas                                                              13.1           432       1,184

Average annual growth, 1998-04                                                                                 I
Population (%)                                                           2 1            2.2         1.8
Laborforce (%)                                                           2.5            1.o         2.1          GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                                                 per                                        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                                            capita                                 enrollment
                          below nationalpovertyIlne)                     40
Urbanpopulation (% oftotalpopulat/on)                                    52              37         31
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                          48              46         58
Infant mortality (per 7,000 live b/rfbst                                 95            101          79
Childmalnutrition(% of children                                          22                         44                Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater SO                  population)               63              58         75
Literacy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                                         68              65         61
Gross primary enrollment (% ofscbool-agepopulation)                      108             95         94                   -Cameroon
   Mala                                                                  116           102         101                   __       Low-incomegroup
   Female                                                                99              88         88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                            1984        1994          2003        2004           Eeonomlcratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                            7.8        7.9           12.5        14.7
Gross capitalformationlGDP                                   25.9       15.3           17 0        17.6
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                                                       25 5        25.0                              Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                                                             17 1        17 5
          ionalsavings/GDP                                                             145         160                                 T

                                                                                       -2.5        -1.2
                                                                                         1 4        1.7
                                                                                       75 5        63.7
                                                                                       139         18.1
                                                                                      40 7
                                                                                      157 4                                        Indebtedness
                                                                                      2004     2004-08          1         -Cameroon
                                                              4.6        4 5            4.8         5.3
                                                               2 3       2 4            2 8         3.5                   -Low-incomegroup                         I
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  23.8       39.6
Industry                                                     37.5       23.5
  Manufacturing
Services                                                     38.8       36.9
                                                                                                                 0 4                                            I
Householdfinal consumption expenditure                       62.0       72.1           70.9        71.0                   99       00    01       02    03     04
Generalgov't finalconsumption expenditure                      9.6      10.0           12.0        11.5                     -GCF               &GDP
Importsof goods and sewices                                  31.0       19.5           25.4        25.0




General gov't final consumptionexpenditure                     0.0       7.0             3.7        1.5'                                                           I
                                                                                                                -101
Gross capital formation                                     -10.5        7.5             4.1        5.0                  -Exports             -Imports
 Importsof goods and sewices                                  -4.3       9.6           -2.6         4.1

*The diamonds show four key indicators in the C0UntI-j (in bold) comparedwith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                                                                                                                   88

                                                                                                                      Cameroon

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                          IT                                            I
                                              1984     1994        2003    2004      I Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                11.5    12.7          2.6    0.7
Implicit GDP deflator                          13.6    11.0          1.1    2.3

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                22.4    10.1         18.8   18.4
Current budgetbalance                            8.5    -5.9         4.3     4.0     I            '"""GDPdeflator   +CPI             I
Overallsurplus/deficit                         -0.1     -9.2         2.0     1.o

TRADE
                                              1984     1994         2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                                         Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)           I
Total exports (fob)                           2,150    1,435       2,347  2.811
  Oil and refinedoil                          1,299     604         408     378
  Cocoa beans, butter, cake                     218      175        476     537
  Manufactures                                    90    204          432    470
Total imports(cif)                            1,133    1,018       2,121  2,415
  Food                                            71     189         227    255
  Fueland energy                                  17       7          54     51
  Capital goods                                 362     314          426    430
                                                                                               98     99   00    01 02     03
Export price index (2000=100)                     75     73          101    107
Importprice index (2000=100)                      39     74          102    103                     HExports       Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                       195       99          98    104

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1984     1994         2003   2004       1 Currentaccount
(US$ millions)                                                                                           balanceto GDP (%)           I
Exportsof goods and services                  2,612    1,737       3,188   3,726
Imports of goods and Services                 2,418    1,534       3,173   3,686
Resource balance                                194      203          14     40

Net income                                       -53    -547        -530   -374
Net currenttransfers                               0      20         199     151

Currentaccount balance                           141    -325        -317   -183

 Financingitems (net)                             15      -9         231     258
Changesin net reserves                         -156      334          86     -76

Memo:
 ReservesinClUdinQgold IUS$ millions)                     14         114     119
 Conversionrate (DEC,locaYUS$)                409.5    434.3        581.2  528.3

 EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1984    1994         2003   2004
 (US$millions)                                                                          :omposition of 2004debt (US$ mill.)

 Total debt OUtStandhgand disbursed           2,901    8,255        9,433  9,382
   IBRD                                          205     679          145    117
   IDA                                           222     406         944   1,083

 Total debt service                              416     382         449     684
   IBRD                                           27     137           45     42
   IDA                                             3       6           13     19

 Composition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                                 40     333         764
   Officialcreditors                             109     310          -46   -144
   Privatecreditors                              132     -59          -61     23
   Foreign direct investment (net inflows)        18      -9          215
   Portfolioequity (net inflows)                   0       0            0                             E:6,102

 World Bank program
   Commitments                                    22     209            3     20                                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                           -
   Disbursements                                  50     202           71    112
   Principalrepayments                            11      84           42     45
   Netflows                                       39     118           29     67
   Interestpayments                               18      59           16      16
   Nettransfers                                   21      59           13     51

Note Ihis taBle was producedtrom the uevelopment twnomics LUti clataBaSe                                                       tl/z4/u5




                                                                                                                                       89

                        ANNEX 15: INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS

1.OVERVIEW

The development objective of the partially blendedPNADP is to reducepoverty andpromote sustainable
rural development by assistinglocal communes andcommunitiesto enhance naturalresourceand
agricultural productivity while preventingandreversinglanddegradation.

The global environmental objectives ofthe proposedproject is to enhance the sustainablelandand
naturalresourcemanagementcomponents of the PAPNDPprogramby complementingthe local and
nationalbenefits of SLMwith key global benefits suchas:
    1. Conservationof globally significant above and belowgroundbiodiversity,
    2. Reductionof carbonemissionsvia improvedlandmanagement activities, rehabilitateddegraded
        lands, and increasedcarbonsequestration.

The global objective will be accomplishedby the following components:

   1. Enhanced intepration of S L M into local development - assist communes and communities in
       identifying key land management constraints and opportunities for improved productivity,
       ecosystem services, and global environmental benefits and to implement priority activities to stop
       and reverseland degradationandthus enhance the conservationof globally significant biodiversity

  2. Institutional s u ~ ~ ofort S L M - reinforce the institutional framework at the national level, and
       including agro-silvopastoral-biodiversity.
                               r
       strengthen the capacities of beneficiaries to better integrate SLM best practices in their local
       development plans. It also seeks to improve the mechanism of land conflict resolution, among
       farmers, foresters, herders, other naturalresource users, andtraditional chiefs.
  3. Proiect management, coordination, monitorinp and evaluation, and communication - ensure
       proper project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, communication, and
       disseminationof lessons learned.

The principal project outcomeswill be:
    1. Accessible of baseline GIS databases on land and natural resources in the targeted locations
        developed and participatory identification and extension of at least 10 SLM "Best Bets" which
        not only enhance agro-silvopastoral productivity but also conserve native biodiversity, enhance
        carbonsequestration, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
    2. At least 100 local community-based organizations have an improved knowledge of SLM and
        environmental issues and are implementing biodiversity and environmentally-friendly SLM
        practices.
    3. Effective operation of the Land Tenure Commissions and Commissions on the modalities for
        resolving agro-silvopastoral conflicts; and at least 10 communes implementing Conflict
        ResolutionFrameworks.
    4. Biodiversity benefits and reduced negative environmental impacts established in at least 50,000
        ha inthe four targetedprovinces.
    5.  Effective monitoring and evaluation (i.e., M&E mechanisms under PAPNDP are adapted to the
        project are beingused).

    0   The GEF alternative will achievethese objectives at a total cost ofUS$98 million, $6.00 million
        of which is beingrequestedfrom the GEF to directly supportthe cost of activities that will ensure
        global environmentalbenefits.

Thus, the total incrementalcost of the GEF activities is about 6.12 percent ofthe total costs ofthe
baselineactivities under the PAPNDP.


                                                                                                       90

2. Context and Broad DevelopmentGoals

Cameroon's rural development and poverty reduction strategies emphasize the needto reverse stagnating
agro-silvopastoral productivity while safeguarding its rich natural resource base and unique biodiversity
assets. However, efforts toward these goals are being seriously hampered by land degradation. Across
many areas o f Cameroon, land degradation is occurring in advanced stages, due to both natural and
anthropogenic causes. The root causes of this degradation vary greatly from one agro-climatic region to
another (see Annex 1for details), yet, in general, the main causes of land degradation can be categorized
as: increased competition over scarce land, unsustainable agricultural practices, overgrazing, frequent
burning to stimulate pasture regrowth, and deforestation. Deteriorating land quality is most prevalent
where people lack land tenure security andor water rights, thus having little or no incentive to invest in
improved land management and soil and water conservation practices.

The Government supports policies and investments that: (i)can prevent and reverse the serious land
degradation, (ii)strengthen biodiversity conservation efforts, (iii)advance the administrative
decentralization agenda, and (iv) better integrate natural resource and sustainable land management
principles into local, regional, and national planning processes. Likewise, considerable interest exists
among the Government o f Cameroon and rural communities to address land degradation in a more
collaborative and holistic way. To illustrate this commitment, the Government is promoting more
rational land-use planning and macro-level zoning plans, and established an inter-ministerial coordination
mechanism to oversee the implementation o fthe U.N.Convention to Combat Desertification. At the same
time, while the value of an integrated landscape approach toward land-use planning is recognized, a
number o f barriers have precluded the ability to translate this approach into action on the ground. These
barriers include: (i)Limitedfundingmechanisms for SLM(ii) o f technical knowledge and capacity
                                                                 Lack
among local institutions and communities. (iii)Weaknesses in the policy environment and legal
framework for SLM and decentralized implementation o f landlandscape use and management plans (iv)
Limited information basis for long-term monitoring o f land degradation and biodiversity conservation,
(v) Lack o f innovative, holistic approachesto SLMinthe context o frural poverty reduction.

3. Project Overview

This four-year GEF funded project encompasses a suite o f incrementalactivities enabled with the addition
o f US$6 million to the World Bank-financed Community Development Program Support Project
(PAPNDP). The project will proceed in tandem with and complement all o f the four components of the
PAPNDP, which is co-financed by IDA and the French Development Agency (AFD). It will also
complement aspects o f other baseline projects under the umbrella framework o f the Community
Development Program (PNDP), supported by the K F W and the African Development Bank, among
others. For example, the KFW are funding a parallel PNDP support project inthe Extreme North Province
(7 MillionEuro for the initialphase) that includes a component on naturalresource management.

The project aims to enable communities to combat land degradation and biodiversity loss, thereby helping
to sustain long-term land productivity. In line with the strategic priorities o f the GEF OP 15, the global
environmental objective o f the GEF alternative project is to promote sustainable land management and
decrease biodiversity loss in fragile agro-agro-silvopastoral ecosystems. Interventions will address the
GEF focal area of land management and, to a lesser degree, biodiversity conservation. The GEF project
will remove some o f the major institutional, financial, and technical barriers to making greater
investments in reversing land degradation and promote the development of greater capacity, tools, and
mechanisms for community ownership o f this process. The project has three components: (i)support for       .
local development; (ii)institutional support for enabling environment for SLM; and (iii)supporting
project managementand coordination, monitoringand evaluation, and communication.

The incremental GEF activities will contribute to reducing soil erosion, stabilizing sediment storage and
release in critical water bodies, and increasing vegetative cover and carbon sequestration in the targeted
areas. The incremental cost for community based innovative SLM investments, technical assistance, and
                                                                                                        91

capacity building activities associated with these objectives are identified by comparing the baseline
scenario and the GEF alternative scenarios. The baseline scenario represents the impacts that likely would
result from ongoing implementation o f the PAPNDP in the four provinces targeted by the GEF project,
and the outcomes associatedwith other associatedinterventions directly or indirectly intendedto enhance
natural resource and sustainable land management in those areas. The baseline can be constructed by
examining the intended impacts o f implementingthe PAPNDP without incremental GEF resources, as
well as other activities underthe framework ofthe PAPNDP.

4. Baseline Scenario

Under the baseline scenario there would be only scattered attention by the Government and donors to
advancing sustainable land management. In addition, the earmarked resources would be inadequate in
relation to the magnitude and severity o f the problem. Land degradation issues would be addressed
largely through `top down' national strategies and highly centralized planning and coordination processes
that are not sufficiently mainstreamed into local development planning or decentralized decision-making.
For example, some o f the efforts toward achieving SLM are often programmed via macro-level zoning
plans; however, these plans can often be out o f sync with existing land uses, priorities, and economic and
socio-political realities on the ground. Given the limited resources available to the Government
specifically dedicated to the issue, SLM issues would not likely be advanced in any coherent or holistic
way, but rather on a more ad hoc basis, with questionable sustainability. Current efforts underway to
promote more rational land-use would evolve only slowly, taking several more years to achieve national
coverage than ifmore resourceswere available.

Inthe absence of the proposed GEF project, the baseline scenario would see very little increase in
improved SLM planning, implementation,             and positive globally significant biodiversity and
environmentalimpacts. Cameroon would continue to experience significant ongoing land degradation and
further decreases in the diversity of biological resources in agro-silvopastoral lands, and the quality of
natural resources therein. Threatened biodiversity contained in the fragile ecosystems lying in the GEF
priority zones could likewise become even more critically endangered. The country's most vulnerable
provinces would continue to face progressive depletion of water resources and declining fertility of
agricultural soils, increased conflict between pastoralists and farmers, intensification of agricultural
production, and the encroachment o f human settlements on natural habitats. Few meaningful
environmental benefits at either the national or the global level would be realized under the baseline
interventions. These trends would undermine the likelihood of achieving the goals set by the Rural
Development Strategy and, by extension, the Cameroonian PRSP.

Total expenditures under the baseline scenario during the lifetime o f the project are therefore US$92
million.

5. GEF Alternative Scenario

GEF incremental activities will significantly increasethe capacity of local communities and decentralized
service providersto incorporate SLM and broader natural resource management considerations into local
and sub-regional planning. In addition, the project will create a more conducive policy environment and
institutional framework for SLM. Finally, incremental activities will enhance national management
information systems and GIs-basedtools and databases for monitoring land degradation and biodiversity
trends and their relationship with rural development. The result ofthese integrated SLM activities will be
a measurable gain in the total area o f land under sustainable management as well as measurable
reductions in existing biodiversity loss in the targeted areas, thereby contributing to the rehabilitation of
fragile agro-silvopastoral systems. Global environmental benefits will include an increase in vegetative
cover compared to the baseline and associated improvements in soil productivity. In addition, project
interventions in some cases would enhance the existing level of protection o f some classified forests and
wildlife protected areas as a result of communal landscape use and management plans, new resource

                                                                                                          92

conflict management plans, and increased awareness targeted at riparian communities or those situated in
buffer zones.

The GEF alternative has beendesignedas a partially blendedproject to the existingmulti-donor financed
Community Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP). Therefore, the project's implementation
and execution arrangements would rely extensively on those of the PAPNDP, whose first phase will have
already been under implementation for two years at GEF project entry. GEF incremental activities would
closely parallel and complement each component o f the PAPNDP; this integration would improve the
design o f all four PAPNDP components, while complementing aspects of other projects under the broader
PNDP, namely the German-financed decentralized development support program for the Extreme North
province.

The GEF project will result in the integration o f innovative SLM practices into local development
investments and increased capacity at decentralized levels for integrated land-use planning. GEF
incremental activities will enable communities in priority areas (encompassing some o f the country's
populations that are most vulnerable to the effects o f land degradation) to engage in SLM planning
processes and to design, implement, and monitor related micro-investment activities that both enhance
land productivity and ensure global environmental benefits. The primary vehicle to achieve these results
will be financial and technical support for community-driven plans and micro-projects that can
simultaneously address priority needs and promote sustainable land management and biodiversity
conservation. Sites will be selected for priority GEF interventions on the basis o f strict criteria in four (4)
targeted Provinces: North, Adamaoua, West and Center.

Project objectives would also be achieved through the followingother mainincrementalactivities:
    -    Policy advisory inthe review and adoption o f legaltexts on landtenure (and land-use rights);
    -    Support for the adoptiodimplementation of participatory, integrated landscape use and
         management plans within targeted areas at the communal levels, integrating SLM and
         biodiversity conservation considerations;
    -    Capacity building and accelerated coordination among key ministries, institutions and other
         stakeholders to create an enabling environment and improved policy and institutional framework
         for SLM;
    -    Setting up o f participatory and conflict-management processes among farmers, pastoralists, other
         resource users and community leaders;
    -    Strengtheningthe capacity of NGOs and local implementing agencies and technical agents with
         respect to SLM and land-use planning, including training in use o f GIs-based tools (e.g.,

    -    databases, maps); and
         Improving M&E systems for analyzing land degradation trends and associated socio-economic
         impacts inthe rural space.

A more detailed view of incremental activitiesby component is provided inthe Table 1below.

TABLE1:ACTIVITIES FINANCEDBYIDAANDBYGEF

BaselineActivities financed by IDA               GEFAlternativeActivities

Component 1:Enhanced integration of SLI          -intoCo-financing,
                                                      local development
- Co-financing ofpublicmicro-projects                               and assistingcommunities inthe
    and community infrastructure                     implementation o f demand driven, incremental micro-
 - Promotionofwater management                       projects on integrated, SLMpractices with significant
    infrastructure and soil conservation             global environment benefits. These may include
    techniques                                       establishment o f windbreaks and buffer strips o f native
                                                     species, rehabilitation o f gallery forests and wetlands;
                                                     improved grazing management o f livestock and

                                                                                                              93

 -   Finalization o f legal framework for    -    Policy advisory inthe review and adoption o f legal texts
     decentralized governance                     on landtenure (and land-userights).
 -   Capacity buildingfor Councils inlocal   -    Strengthencapacity and accelerate coordination among
     development and financial management         key ministries, institutionsand other stakeholders to
 - Sensitizationondecentralization                createan enabling environment and improved policy and

                                             -    institutional framework for SLM.
                                                  Buildawarenesson SLMpolicies, programs and
                                                  linkages with global environmental benefits through

                                             -    workshops at national and decentralized levels.
                                                  Integration o f SLMand biodiversity conservation
                                                  considerations, and GIS-basedtools (e.g., databases,

                                             rilding at the local level
                                             - Support for the adoptiodimplementation o f landscape use
 -development  plans                         and management plans withintargeted areas at the
   Support identification and analysis of    communal level.
 revenue increasing micro-projects           - Identify and conserve biological diversity critical for
 - Support to poverty alleviating micro-                   exploitation of agro- silvopastoral lands.
 project implementation                      -sustainablepublic awareness
                                               Promote                      intargeted communities
 - Community   training andoutreach          regardingland degradation impacts and the productivity and
                                             environmentalbenefits o f alternative SLMBest Bet
                                             practices.
                                             - Setting  upofparticipatory andconflict-management
I                                            processes among farmers, pastoralists, other resource users
                                             and community leaders.
                                             Productionand dissemination o f materials on innovative
                                             -SLMpractices,    environmentalbenefits, and lessons learned.
                                               Promote reliance on native species, indigenous knowledge
                                             and use of innovative SLMtechnologies.
                                             - Strengthencapacity o fNGOs and local implementing
                                             agencies andtechnical agents with respect to SLMand land-
                                             use planning.

 -Component   3: Project management, coordii ttion, monitoring and evaluation, and communication
   Training to strengthennational            -    Enhance spatial andtemporal monitoring o f land-use
 -coordination                                    changes and linkedenvironmentaland socio-economic
   Sound managemento f informationrelated         impacts.
 to project implementationand impacts        -    Improve national M&Esystems for analyzing land
 - Accountingand financial monitoring             degradation trends and associatedsocio-economic

                                             -    impacts.
                                                  Support analysesto better understand the costs and
                                                  benefits o f various SLMinterventions indifferent sub-

                                             -    regional, agro-climatic, andsocio-economic contexts.
                                                  Monitoringproject impacts with respect to land
                                                  degradation and biodiversity intargeted areas.

                                                                                                        94

GEF support will also leverage additional support from the donor community for sustainable land
management in Cameroon, particularly for the second and third phases of the PAPNDP. This will allow
for broader coverage of project interventions and accelerate the development of sound institutional
capacity and policies for sustainable land management. The project will also facilitate synergies with
other ongoing GEF-supported activities in Cameroon and the West/Central Africa region, thereby
bolstering the likelihood of achieving different but complementary global environmental objectives to
rehabilitate the broader sub-regional ecosystems. Among these synergistic projects are: Forest and
Environment Development Program (FEDPG), Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the
Niger River Basin, and Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin
Ecosystem.

Total expenditures under the GEF Alternative scenario during the lifetime of the project are US$98
million.

IncrementalCost Calculations. The requestedfunding for the proposedGEF project is US$6.00 M, of
which
    0    $3.60 million is for the enhanced integrationof SLM into local development (through communal
         and community micro-projects) - component 1;
    0    $1.712 million is for institutional support for SLM- component 2; and
    0    $0.688 million is for supporting project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation,
         and communication- component 3.

Thus, the total incrementalcost of the GEF activities is about 6.12 percent of the total costs of all of the
baselineactivities under the PNDP. A detailed breakdownofthese costs is provided below. A breakdown
of the cost components by contributorsand an estimate of GEF incrementalcosts as a percentage of total
project cost are also provided inTable 1.    '




                                                                                                          95

                          sN
                          a

                          z
                          0




            .
            2              z
                     00
                     00
                    2      0




       a
23E
d
W




            3
            3        z
                     0




          E
         m O
         '?g
         m
     r4   LE
     W         - 0


n            n
B            PI
2E                          0
                            2
                            P4
W



   Y                I Y    I

d
2
69
\o
m
3


2
c
.e


m
#

      P
      x




      a
      s
      Y
      s




00
0
2
i
69
v)
3

                          ANNEX 16: STAP ROSTER TECHNICAL REVIEW

Reviewer: John Peacock               Range Ecology/Ecophysiology Specialist
Date: 27 July 2005


General Comment:
When reading this STAP Roster Technical Review o f the above project it must be understood that this is
a review o f a draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and not o f the final document. Inrecognizing the
advantages of reviewing the document as early as possible in its development, it should be noted that,
because it is a draft, Iprobably have many more concerns and questions o f clarification. It must be stated
at the outset that this GEF project, if successful, is vital for Cameroon because, through the use o f
Sustainable Land Management (SLM) practices it will improve the economic growth in the rural
communities, sustainrural livelihoods, and ultimately reduce the incidence and severity o f poverty.

Zomments from STAP Expert                               IResponsefrom the project team
1. KeyIssues
1.  Scientific and technical soundness of the project
The ultimate goal of this project is excellent as iiwould      3. Community driven micro-projects to be co-
Enhanceecosystemintegrity and increaseproductivity (and        financed, derive from local developmentplans. Due
indirectly rural wealth) through work with land managersin to the material, technical and financial resource
selected ecosystems. Icongratulatethe teamthat is              :onstraints, under a purely demand-drivenapproach
developingthe project. Unfortunately the scientific and        mly ahandful o fmicro-projects co-financedunder
technical aspects ofthe project are poorly addressed inthis    PAPNDP would be realized that would directly
draft and needfurther elaboration inthe final PAD. Infact      contributeto combating land degradation. An
there is little change from the earlier PDF document. It is    integratedlandscape approachwill be then
essentialthat the scientific soundness ofthe PAD is            developedand contributions from beneficiaries
strengthenedfor the implementation and success ofthe           (communesand CBOs) of at least2% incash and
proposedproject. Havingsaid this, the project has some         8% in kind (labor, material) will be required.
good scientific and technical conceptsand components, but      Detailed criteria for the selectionof project sites as
these could also be strengthened.                              well as eligibility criteria for micro-projects have
a.  The focus on decentralization is excellent and stressed    beenagreed upon with the counterpart and will be
    throughout.The project values participatory                incorporated inthe PIM.
    approachesand consultation inthe implementation, but       b. The existing M&Emanual andthe integrated
    unfortunately not indesigno fthe micro-projects.           financial and technical managementsystemunder
b. An M& E system has beenconceivedand is planned              PAPNDP are being updated and will also be used
     for the project, but not elaborated inthe draft.          for monitoringprogress on GEF project activities.
C.  The project intendsto involve indigenouspeople,
    however at the same time the project is weak on
    recognizing the value of indigenoustechnical
    knowledge (ITK) to the design and implementation of
     SLMpractices.                                             c. Best practicesto be promoted will necessary
d. The project proposesto cover the four mainprovinces         include ITK, in order to ensure their replicability
     and ecological zones, but at the same time this couldbe and sustainability. The team will ensure that this
     its Achilles heal. The project, in my opinion, is too     aspect be better reflected inthe final version ofthe
     ambitious and the number oftargeted areas to be           PAD.
     selected shouldnot be greater than four.                  d. Althoughthe Project is intendingto cover four
e.   The project addresses well the issues of land reform      provinces and based on the criteria set for the
     and landtenure, but provides no technical guidance for    selectionof aredsites of intervention, its activities
    the SLMpracticesto be used inthe design,                   will be mainly concentratedinthe Northand
     implementationand monitoringphases.                       Adamaouaprovinces where land degradationissues
f. Trainingneedsareemphasizedthroughout butthere is            seem to be more severe.
     no mention oftechnicaltraining in SLMpractices.           A list ofbest practiceson SLM is beingproduced



                                                          99

g.  The principles o f sustainablelandmanagementare           basedonthe on-going projects experiences ,          II
    well covered, but thenreference is made, innumerous       especially inthe Northand Adamaouaprovinces.
    places, to a number ofuntestedSLMpractices(e.g. P         This will also include lessons learntfrom integrated
     35 para. 2) that may not be suitablefor the Cameroon,    landscapemanagement approachand conflict
     ratherthan to those that have beendevelopedand           resolution mechanisms.
    tested inrural areas inWest Africa, making more use       f.Technicaltraining on SLMwill bethebackbone
     of ITK.                                                  for the implementation ofproject activities and will
                                                              be reflected on the training plan being prepared..
Finally, Ifully endorsethe recommendationfor a full-time      g. See lessons learnt from on-going experiences in
landhoil managementexpert familiar with local SLM             the Northand Adamaoua.
practices.The personmust have considerableexperiencein
the region and preferably inCameroon.


2. Identification of the global environmental benefits
and/or drawbacksof the project
Healthy, thriving ecosystems are the main providers of        The project agree with the statement, while keeping
services for sustainable living. This project will clearly    inmindtheneedfor having simple and measurable
havea markedpositive effect on all the ecosystems             indicators. A baseline Study is being carried out
services, viz. regulating, supporting, provisioning and       and will provide guidanceon the best indicators to
cultural services. Therefore the project shouldprovide        be consideredfor each agro-ecosystem.
considerableglobal environmental benefits, particularly in
relation to reduction o f land degradation, increased
biodiversity and agro-biodiversity and carbonsequestration,
inthe humidtropics. However, it is importantthat the
impact indicators o f land degradationinthe humidtropics
are clearly listed (may be for eachecosystemservice).
Traditional knowledge (cultural services) needsto be
emphasized more as this can yield global benefits. Also the
policy, institutional bottlenecksreferred to on page 8 are
most important and should be completedas this will leadto
further global benefits.
3.   How the project fits within the context of the goals
of GEF, as well as its operational strategies, program
priorities, GEF Council guidance, and the provisionsof
the relevant conventions
The project addresses the overall operationalgoal ofthe
GEF focal area on land degradationand fits extremely well
within the goals, strategiesand priorities ofthe GEF
OperationalProgramon SustainableLandManagement
(OP#15). The project also fits well into the following
important GEF criteria:
a.   The GEF OperationalProgramofClimate Change
     through the work on carbonsequestrationissues and
     possible impactsof drought.
b. SupportsGEF goals on biodiversity by addressingthe
     issues ofbiodiversity and agro-biodiversity of diverse
     ecosystems laid out inGEF's Operational Strategy and
     Programson Biodiversity.
c.   I s in line with the proposednew strategicdirections for
     the next phaseofGEF, viz. GEF- 4, startingend of
     2006.
d. Followsclosely theNational Action Programmes               The preparationofthe NAP is progressing
     (NAPs) that are being developedfor Cameroon.             satisfactorily and is expectedto be completedby
     However it refers only to the 1999 draft (P.7 & 40).     end ofJune 2006. The relatedsection ofthe PAD
     Has Camerooncompleted its NAPs, which is due in          has beenuDdatedaccordindv.


                                                          100

    2005?Without seeing arecentversion it will be
    difficult to say whether the proposedproject will
    complement and increasethe efficiency ofthe NAPS.
e.  If projectissuccessful,thenitwillfitwellunder
       this
    sub-RegionalAction Programmes (SRAPs), possibly
    with Chad andNiger.
f. ItaddressesanumberofThematicProgramme
    Networks, TPN2 on agro-forestryand soil
     conservation; TPN3 on rangelandand fodder crops and
    TPN4, on ecological monitoring, natural resource
     mapping andremote sensing, under the Regional
    Action Programs (RAPS).
g.   The project clearly distinguishes betweenbaseline
     actionsto be coveredbythe national programsand the
     incrementalactionsto be coveredby the GEF
     component.
h,   GEF's vision on preservationofthe integrity of an
     ecosystem and a landscape approachare adheredto.

4.   Regionalcontext                                          No comment.
The ultimate goal ofthis project is to enhance ecosystem
integrity and increaseproductivity (and indirectly rural
wealth) through working with the landmanagers ineach of
the targetedareas. Similarlythe project addresses mostof
the factors inthe SustainableRural Livelihoods
Framework. This framework will also help the teamto
modelthe processesto identify factors, within each selected
area, that are the most sensitiveto change. Therefore the
project will not only benefit the poor ruralcommunities and
indigenouspeople inCameroon, it could easily be
consideredas a model for West Africa, ingeneral, and the
region, inparticular. Ithas the potential to be considered as
a model (as mentionedabove) for Land Degradation
Assessment inthe Humid Tropics viz. The LADA (Land
DegradationAssessment inDrylands) for the humid
tropics.
5.   Replicability of the project (added value for the Although they are all closely working with IRAD,
globalenvironmentbeyond the projectitself)                    the team sharesthe view to explicitly include
Provided the project is kept simple, designedand              international researchinstitutes working on land
implementedwell at the community level, it has                management, suchas CGIAR ,IITA, CIRAD,
considerablepotential for replicability. The document is      CIFOR, ICRAF, as key potential partnersfor the
strong on locallnational outreachbut linksto regional and     project. This is being reflected inthe PAD.
international institutes needsto be strengthened for
outreach. The draft only refers to local researchinstitutes
(P19. Component 1). Links with other international
institutes, particular the CGIAR centers, needto be more
transparentinthe document. Cameroonrepresents nearly
90% ofthe African ecosystems, therefore, ifthe project
became more institutionalized it could becomea model for
LandDegradationAssessment inthe HumidTropics
(humid forest margins) and could be replicated insimilar
ecosystemsthroughoutthe region and inWest Africa.

6.    Sustainabilityof the project.                           A study on successful landmanagementpracticesas
The potential is good because of its strong linkages with the well as another one on cultural and technical
PAPNDP which has three, 4 year phases and the project         feasibility are being conductedand their findings


                                                          101

overlapswith the first two phases. Ifthe GEF componentis     will be incorporated inthe PAD.
successfulthenthe adopted SLMpackages should
automatically be incorporated into the remaining phases of
the PAPNDP project. Butto be successful, andtherefore
sustainable, the project needs to incorporateall the lessons
learnt from previous listedprojects (P 21-24). Italso needs
to examineother techniquesthat have beendevelopedand
have increasedthe sustainability and productivity inrural
communities inthe region and inWest Africa. Evaluation
ofthe Sustainable sedentaryfarming models and other
techniquesdiscussed inthe Senegalproject on ecosystem
management is a good examplel. It might be valuable as
part ofthe baselineassessment ofthis project to carryout a
meta-analysison all the relevant development projects
completed inthe Cameroonon landdegradation, land
management, biodiversityconservationand agricultural/
environmentalproductivity. Inthe past, Cameroonhas
served as a benchmark site for CGIARresearchinthe
EcoregionalProgram for the Humidand Sub-Humid
Tropics of sub-Saharan Africa (EPHTA)
(www,iita.org/partner/ePhta.htm).This research is still on-
going and publications onthe Cameroonbenchmark site
can be found on www.iita.org/info .A summary ofthe
impact ofthis long-term researchcan be found in:An
assessment of IITA's benchmarkareaapproach. There are
also anumber ofpast and ongoing projects on forest
restoration, slash and burnand many agricultural
developmentprojects. CIFOR has put together a
compilation ofpublications, maps, pictures, hyperlinks, and
references on a CD-rom called Cameroon's forest and
people.There is also DURAS, www.duras-proiect.net with
the collaboration ofCIRAD. These arejust a few more
sources ofbaseline information and SLMpracticesthat
havebeendevelopedfor Cameroon.
1. Page 34-35 (7-8) and Annex XI. Integrated Ecosystem
     Management in Four Representative Landscapes of
     Senegal/ UNDP.
2. Secondary Issues
7. Linkages to other focal areas                             No comment.
As mentionedin3, the project is contributing to global
benefits inthe other focal areas ofboth Climate Change and
Biodiversity. However the linkages to biodiversity must be
strengthened. For impact and consistency it is also
important to ensurethat the indicators for measuring
biodiversity, which are listed inthe logframe (p.20), are
also mentionedinthe text (P15. para3).

8.   Linkages to other programs                              See section 5 above.
Some are listed and clearly these are very important, but
what are the linkageswith other organizationse.g. CIFOR,
DURAS,ICRAF, IITA, ILRIandNEPAD?The more
institutionalized the project becomesthe better chance it
has of both succeedingand remaining sustainable.




                                                          102

9.   Other beneficialor damagingenvironmentaleffects               No comment.
Providedthe project is successful it will havemany positive
effectsonthe environment. However without the GEF
componentor ifthe GEF componentfails, many ofthe
selectedmicro-projects, viz. road buildingand dam
construction, could be extremely damagingto the
environment.For this reasonthe project needsto
acknowledgethe existenceof indigenoustechnical
knowledge and utilize it when designingand selectingthe
different SLMpackages.
10. Degree of involvement of stakeholders in the Although it seems difficult to integrate
project                                                            representativesof indigenouspeople as the steering
The project is excellent as it is clear at the outset that all the committee is set at the national level, the team
relevantstakeholderswill be involved. However it fails to          considersthis suggestion, as valuable and will
say who these actually are. Iencourageyou to expandthe             discuss it with the counterpart during prior to
PAPNDP's steeringcommittee to key stakeholdersthat are             appraisal.
outsidethe Government (P 26. para3) viz. indigenous
peoples, CGIAR centers, NGOs and local research
institutes. It is vital, that inaddition to these indigenous
peoples, farmers, herders, local and international scientists
being representedinthe management ofthe project, that
their role, at the community level, as stakeholders, is also
expanded to include designand implementation .


11. Institutional support to the land reform process               This aspect is now extensively developedinthe       ~




Another strengthofthis project is its promotion of land            revisedversion ofthe PAD. Furtherdetails will be
reform. Ithas stressedthe needfor decentralizationfrom             provided upon receivingthe recommendationo fthe
the outset andhas builtthe project aroundlocal                     ongoing study on the institutional and legal
communities. This is excellent as it enables land use              bottleneckson land management.
analysisand has developed a framework for addressing
conflicts. However althoughthe land reformcomponent is
strong it is not clear how this will ultimately affect the
implementation ofthe differentSLMpracticese.g., the
private versus public land issues and possibleresulting
conflicts. This needsto be better addressed. A review of
experiences from the implementation of food for work
programsthat have focusedon community basedworks
suchas small scale irrigation, irrigationcanalrehabilitation,
terracing, land improvement, watershedimprovement,
pasturerehabilitation and other types of agriculture works
that havebeen demandedby communities might be of
value here. Many ofthese work programshavedealt with
investmentsinland improvement at public versusprivate
level.
12. Capacity buildingat the locallevel                             Basedon the stakeholders' analysis being carried
The training component is strong, but largely inthe area of        out, technical agents will be contractedout to
project logistics, procurementetc. it appearsweak however          provide required training to communesand CBOs,
ontechnical aspects. It may be necessaryto try and utilize         as well as to local implementing agencies.
peoplewho were trained earlier. (See15j). The use o fNGO
staffto train inproject administration and managementis
excellentbut may not be appropriatefor technical training.
Itmight beusefulto also considertechnical training
utilizing local farmers and/or indigenoustechnical experts.



                                                               103

 13. Innovativeness of the project                             No comment.
 Linkingthe GEF component ofthe project to the PAPNDP
 is a good and novel idea. It also makes, if successfbl, the
 GEF component very cost effective. As mentionedearlier
 in4 & 5, itcould be amodelproject on land degradation
 assessment for the humid tropics.
 3. General Questions
 How many relevant localresearch institutions will be inthe    rhereare at least four inthe centre ( ICRAF, IITA,
 selected areas inthe 4 provinces?                             ZIRAD, CIFOR, IUD)and at least IRAS is active
                                                               neachofthe other three provinces.
 Doesthe Institut de Recherche Agricolepour le                 Yes. See above.
 De'veloppement(IRAD) have aresearchoutlet ineachof
 the selected areas?
 Duringthe recentpre-appraisalmissionwere the criteria         Yes. The selectioncriteria include among others, the
 establishedfor selectionofthe targetedareas?                  nagnitude of land degradation, soil fertility and
                                                               iiodiversity depletion, erosion as measuredthrough
                                                               h e runoff rate, population density, extend of area
                                                               :oncerned by land degradationand communities
                                                               xeparedness, interms of past experienceon SLM
                                                               with on-going initiatives, level oforganization,
                                                               interest on SLM, and existence or not o f other
                                                               facilitating factors.
 Are any ofthe villages that were used inthe National          Yes. Villages inthe Centerprovince and inthe
 Agricultural Extension and ResearchProgram Support            North.
 Project inany ofthe selected areas?
 Village-based community development inthe Cameroon            This approachis being develop under the PAPNDP
 National Agricultural Extension and ResearchProgram           and will be adoptedinthe GEF project as well.
 SupportProject seems to haveworked well. Will this
 approachbe adoptedinthis project?
 How exactly will the project ensure inclusion ofthe           An IPDPhas beendevelopedunderPAPNDP and is
 Pygmieswhen they are presentinthe selected areas?             being implemented.This plan will be updated as
                                                               necessaryto integrateSLM for inclusion of
                                                               Pygmies.
 What are the short term incentivesto increase income (See     Basedon lessons learnt from the on-going
  15 1& in)?                                                   experiences, especially looking at the high
                                                               migration rate ofpopulation from the extremeNorth
                                                               to the Northand Adamaoua, because ofthe poor
                                                               agro-silvopastoralland productivity, local
                                                               communities and communesinthese provinces have
                                                               agreat sense ofthe needto improve the
                                                               managementoftheir natural resources. The pressure
                                                               onthese resources is increasingly felt as one ofthe
                                                               main issues to be addressed. Therefore they may not
                                                               necessarilyneedany specific incentives.
                                                               Nevertheless, the project is anticipating paying a
                                                               specialattentionto improving soil fertility infarm
                                                               landsby introducing water conservationand soil
                                                               erosioncontrol techniquesand highnitrogen

I                                                              converting plants. The project will also introduced
                                                               new species on pastoral lands to improve their
                                                               quality.
  What are the longterm incentivesand how are these made       Long-term incentives include: (i)   positive
  sustainable?                                                 externalities interms of maintaining or boosting
                                                               land productivity; (ii)promotingalternative
                                                               livelihood strategies for the rural poor;



                                                            104

                                                           (iii)strengtheninglocalcapacityfornatural
                                                           resourcesand sustainable land management,
                                                           including pasturelandsand community forest
                                                           resources; and (iv) strengtheningcentral and
                                                           decentralizedInstitutional capacity for sustainable
                                                           land management and (v) promoting secured land
                                                           use rights, especially inthe Northprovince.
 Will the land managementspecialistbe hired?This is vital. Yes, an environmental/land management specialist
 Itis alsoessentialthat the personhas extensiveexperience  was hiredto join the NCU, prior to the appraisal
 with SLMpracticesinthe region.                            mission. H e will be incharge of all SLMactivities
                                                           financedthrough PAPNDP (Le., IDA funds) and the
                                                           GEF project.
                                                           This refers to consultantson SLMto be contracted
 LandManagementexperts referredto on page 59 and           out as needed.

                                                           No, to the extend ofthe team knowledge.
 the estimated net carbon sequestrationcapacityof

                                                           Seeds will be collected by communities with the
                                                           assistanceof local implementing agencies, and/or
 are the localnative seeds coming from? Have provisions    provided by research institutions.
 been made for increasesinnative plant material?

 Canthe effects of drought be copedwith inthe project?     Yes, to some extentthrough water conservationand-
                                                           soil erosion control techniques, which will leadto
                                                           the refilling ofthe undergroundwater. The micro-
                                                           projects such as water wells are also eligible under
                                                           PAPNDP.
 How will the grazing corridors be set up?                 The grazing corridors will be set up based on the
                                                           communal landscape use and management plans to
                                                           be developedina participatory manner.The

~                                                          traditional conflict resolution mechanismswill also
                                                           be revived and/ or strengthenedas necessary.
 When will the baseline databe collected, how will these   A computerizedmonitoringsystemdevelopedunder
 data be stored and analyzed for changes?                  PAPDNP will be upgradedfor monitoringprogress
                                                           on SLM.
                                                           To some extent, as land use rights will be developed
                                                           especially for resourcepoor farmers. Inthe North
                                                           women lack o f source ofenergy and may need some
                                                           support to develop community and/or communal
                                                           forests.
 Improvingthe agricultural productivityo f land is         Agricultural productivity will be measuresthrough
 mentionedmanytimes (P. 11, 12, 14,30,61) but it is not    improved soil fertility as measuredfor each agro-
 clear how the& increaseswill be monitored and measured?   ecosystemand increasedofyields for maincrops.
 What will be the role of the extensionservice inthis      The delivery o f extensionserviceswill be
 project?                                                  contractedout to local implementing agencies.
 What is the role ofproducer organizations?                Producer organizationsare consideredor are
                                                           memberso f CBOs. The 1atter.areone ofthe main
                                                           beneficiaries ofproject intervention.
 Will the project involve the private sector?              Yes, through local implementing agencies and
                                                           technical agentsto be contractedout.
 Hasthe questionofmobility o f staffbeen adequately        Provision has beenmade to that end to complement
 addressedinthis project?This seemedto be amajor           the existing facilities under PAPNDP.
 problem inearlier projects.




                                                        105

Are training manualsavailable?Will there be adequatetime      Thetraining manual is being preparedand would be
to train the trainers on technical issues?                    finalized prior to appraisaland adoptedlatestprior
                                                              to negotiation
___~
[s there a record of all the peopletrained under the earlier  Yes.
      ~




CameroonBiodiversity Conservationand Management
Project?
Itwould be very usefulto not onlyhavemapsofthe                An extensivedatabase from completedand on-
country and proposedproject areas, but also to have maps      going projects has beenmade availableto the team
showing the areas coveredby the other completedrelated        during the pre-appraisalmission. All these
projectsandthose ongoing projects listed.Need to again        information are being incorporated inthe project
build on what has alreadybeen achieved. These projects,       database.
which have cost a lot of money, shouldnot be seen as
entities inthemselvesbut apart of asustainable learning
curve.
4. Suggestions for improvementof the Project Proposal: i s recognizedthat this PAD document is only an
earlydraft. However the following shouldbe considered:
a.   The project lacks cross referencing.The Annexesthat      The team will ensure to that all references are linked
     havebeen completedare good and are helpful, but          to the text.
     these shouldbe linkedto ;he text.
b. An additional Annex describingindetail the SLM             Itwill, uponreceivingthe findings ofthe on-going
     practicesto be used (See Annex Xr) shouldbe
                               I                              study on SLMbest practicesas well as the one the
     incorporated.                                            technical and cultural feasibility of SLM.
c.   Itis clearthat different sections ofthe project,         Done.
     particularly the Annexes, have beendeveloped and
     written by different people. Important now to check for
     consistencythroughout the document.
d. Micro-projects are referredto throughout the               Done.
     document, but it is not untilpage 70 that one gets a
     clear idea what these are. Needsto be explainedvery
     clearly when first referredto inthe document.
e.   Itis advisable,for many reasonsthatthe numberof          Most ofproject activities will be locatedintwo
     targeted areas is no greater than four; one per province provinces:the northand Adamaoua, becauseofthe
     perhaps. The main reason for this is that this avery     magnitudeof land degradationand biodiversity
     complex project and the success of it will dependon      depletion inthe these areas.
     getting each step right. Too many areas will dilute all
     the resources and could leadto failure. Inbrief, keep it
     simple and do eachpart well.




                                                           106

                  ANNEX 17: CAMEROON MAPS ON LAND DEGRADATION AND IBRD NO. 33382


Map on Pastoral Land Degradation in the Adamaoua Province




Map on the Agro-silvopastoral Land Degradation in the North Province



                                                          107

Map on Land Degradation in the Extreme North and North Provinces



                                                       108

109

                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33382

                                                                 12E                                 14E                                        16E

   CAMEROON                                                                                                                   Lake            This map was produced by
                                                                                1963 Level                                    Chad            the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                              World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                 1973 Level                                                   colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                              any other information shown
          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                 2001 Level                                                on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                              the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                  To
          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                      Fotokol       Massaguet      Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                              legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                              or any endorsement or
          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   Maltam           a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                                                                      To                                      boundaries.
          RIVERS                                                                                  Maiduguri                          To                                      12N
                                                                                                                                  Mandlia
          MAIN ROADS                               0    40    80   120   160 Kilometers

                                                                                                     To
          RAILROADS                                                                               Maiduguri
                                                   0        40       80         120 Miles
          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                   Mora        Mts.



                                                      N I G E R I A                              Mandara E X T R E M E
                                                                                                                    Maroua               To
                                                                                                                                     Guelengdeng

                                                                                                                 N O R D       Yagoua


                                                                                                                      Kal
                                                                                                                      Kal
10N                                                                                                                                                                         10N
                                                                                                 Figuil                                          To
                                                                                                                              To                Kim

                                                                                                                  To          Pala
                                                                                                                 Ler
                    CAMEROON                                                                 Garoua
                                                                                                                                            CHAD
                                                                                    Touroua        Bnou

                                                                                                N O R D

                                                                                    Faro

8N
                                                                                                Mb
                                                                                                Mb               Mts    Mbang.                                               8N

                                                                                                                        Vina      Ngai

                                                                        Mts.                    Ngaoundr
                                                                                                Ngaoundr



                                                             Banyo
                                                                                                  Djrem
                              Wum
                              Wum
                               N O R D -                     Adamaoua      A D A M A O U A


                                                                                           Ngaoundal
                                                                         Tibati

       To
      Ikom                      O U E S T    Kumbo
6N                                  Bamenda              Bankim                                                              To
                                                                            Sangb
                                                                            Sangb                                                                                            6N
                                                                                                                             Bouar
               Mamfe  Mbu                                                                            Garoua Boulai
                                                 Foumban
                          Dschang       Bafoussam

                                    O U E S T                          Yoko                     Lom                            CENTRAL AFRICAN
              S U D -
                                     Bafang                C E N T R E                                                                   REPUBLIC
            O U E S T                                                                      Blabo
                                                                                           Blabo
                                Nkongsamba            Mbam
                  Kumba                                                                   Bertoua           Kadei
                               ouriY
                                   abassi                                Nanga
     Mt. Cameroon                                                        Eboko                                       Batouri
         (4,095 m)           LW I T T O R A L
              Buea                                    Ntui
                      Tiko
4N         Limbe       Douala                                    Akonolinga             Abong Mbang                        Yola
                                    Edea        YAOUND
                                                 AOUND                                                                                                                       4N


                                                Eska
                                                Eska
    EQUATORIAL                                              Nyong                                        E S T
     GUINEA                                                 Mbalmayo                                                     Boumba

                                                                                                     Echambot

                          Kribi             Ebolowa                Sangmlima
                                                                   Sangmlima
                                                                                                                                      Lokomo
                                                           S U D
                                                        Ambam
                                                               Kom                                            Dja


                                                                                                                                     Mouloundou
2N                                                       To                                                                                                                  2N
                                                         Oyem
   Gulf of                       EQUATORIAL                      GABON
    Guinea                           GUINEA                                                                                     CONGO

                               10E                              12E                                 14E                                        16E

                                                                                                                                                                  SEPTEMBER 2004

