IPP141
Volume 1
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE ("PYGMY") DEVELOPMENT PLAN
FOR
SUSTAINABLE AGRO-PASTORAL AND LAND MANAGEMENT
PROMOTION
UNDER THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
August 24, 2005



1.0   Introduction
The attached Indigenous People (-pygmy") Development Plan (IPDP): Participatory
Community Development Programme, June 2003, was developed during the preparation
of the IDA-funded Community Development Support Program Project (PAPNDP) to
ensure participation by indigenous people (IP) in the decision-making process throughout
project planning, implementation, and evaluation, and to strengthen the institutions
through which IPs can participate in their country's development. PAPNDP is currently
under implementation as part of Cameroon's multi-donor financed National Community
Development Support Program (PNDP).
The same IPDP is being re-disclosed (in English and French) to guide the implementation
of its recommendations under the proposed Sustainable Agro-Pastoral and Land
Management Promotion (the Prqject) because the micro-projects of this Project will
complement those funded by PAPNDP.
Based on the recommendations of the IPDP, PAPNDP is currently carrying out a study
that will focus on (i) awareness raising and preparatory measures necessary to implement
the IPDP; (ii) the socio-economic and cultural circumstances of pygmies living in the
PAPNDP project area (North, West, Adamaoua, Center and South Provinces); (iii) the
issuance of identity cards and the provision of training for relevant officials; and (iv) the
preparation and implementation of local development plans as well as the application of
the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). The proposed Project
will be able to draw on the results of this study, particularly with regard to land tenure,
conflict resolution, environmental management of micro-projects and related training.
2.0   Project Objectives
The Project's development objective is to enable communities to contribute to combating
land degradation in critical areas. This will be achieved through the adoption of
sustainable land management (SLM) best practices, and the development of adequate
capacity, tools, and mechanisms by communities, thereby strengthening the overall
impact of PAPNDP. The Project will contribute to reconciling the short-term objective of
increased land productivity with long-term local, national, and global environmental
objectives.
The Project's global environmental objective is to promote sustainable land management
(SLM) and decrease biodiversity loss in fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral ecosystems. As a
result of incremental interventions, the Project will contribute to rehabilitating degraded
lands and curbing further degradation, reducing soil erosion, stabilizing sediment storage
and release in critical water bodies, and increasing vegetative cover and carbon
sequestration in the targeted areas.
2



3.0   The Project
The proposed Suistainable Agro-Pastoral Land Management Promotion (the Project)
intends to enable communities to contribute to combating land degradation in critical
areas, through the adoption of SLM best practices and the development of adequate
capacity, tools, and mechanisms by communities. The proposed Project is designed as a
partially blended IDA/GEF project; thereby it will benefit from the activities and
organizational structure already set up through PAPNDP, an APL consisting of three
four-year phases.
The GEF project will intervene within areas covered by PAPNDP, and specifically in the
Provinces of the North, Adamaoua, West and Center which were selected on the basis of
the following criteria: (i) magnitude of land degradation; (ii) biodiversity conservation,
crop cover and agro-forestry practices; and (iii) socio-economic facilitating factors or
constraints. Sub-criteria include, among others, soil structure and soil salinity (severity of
land degradation); crop rotation and grazing (agricultural practices); diversity depletion
(biodiversity conservation); and land tenure distribution and presence of indigenous
people (soio-economic factors).
The Project has three main components: (i) integrating SLM into local development; (ii)
institutional support for enabling environment for SLM; and (iii) support for project
management and coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and communication. The
components have been designed to accelerate investments in reversing land degradation
and to promote the development of capacity, tools, and mechanisms for communities'
ownership in this process.
The Project's expected outcomes are (i) improving efforts to preserve or restore the
functional integrity of ecosystems in targeted areas; thereby leading to increased
productivity of land under management; (ii) strengthening the institutional and human
capacities at the local and national levels in SLM planning and implementation; and (iii)
creating the appropriate enabling environment and strengthening the existing legal,
institutional, and policy framework for proper SLM implementation.
4.0   The Indigenous People Development Plan
The Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) summarizes the circumstances of IPs
in PAPNDP's project area as follows: From the legal point of view, the IPs (in total
around 30,000 individuals gathered in and around 300 settlements, and in 33 councils)
are citizens equal to all other people born in Cameroon, but they do not have the same
political influence, legal status, organizational, technical or economic capacity as other
groups in Cameroon.
The Baka, Kola and Aka, who formerly ranged over broad areas of uninterrupted forest
as full-time hunters and foragers, have increasingly been constricted to areas with home
"bases" involving agriculture and outlying areas where some hunting and gathering is
still practiced, though with a technology that is different from the traditional net hunting.
3



The former interdependence with village agriculturists - where the Baka, Kola and Aka
supply village labor during the hunting off-season, and villagers rely on pygmy
production of meat and forest products from the wild - has become a situation of
increased dependence of pygmies on villagers for cash income, work, and a few
government-derived social services.
The IPDP identifies a number of risks the IPs could face as a result of the implementation
of PAPNDP, if left unattended. Such risks could include further marginalization in
Cameroonian society; fewer government services; loss of control over land traditionally
used by IPs as a source of livelihood and basis for their cultural and social system; less
access to education, health infrastructure, and clean water; and less income from
agricultural production. The IPDP makes specific recommendations designed to mitigate
such risks.
Thus, the main recommendations of the IPDP include the establishment of:
(i) equal legal opportunities such as the provision of ID cards and the establishment of
community forests or traditional hunting zones; (ii) technical opportunities such as equal
participation in the elaboration of communal development plans and development of
local action plans; (iii) equal financial opportunities such as special programs for pygmies
to benefit from job creation opportunities and subsidized rates for AFDCR financed
projects; (iv) equal organizational opportunities such as the inclusion of representatives in
the various PNDP committees and the provision of training on intercultural
communication to civil servants and councilors working in the subdivisions with pygmy
populations; and (v) equal cultural opportunities such as assisting Baka and Kola
associations in capacity building to preserve the loss of traditional knowledge, culture
and livelihood patterns, and fostering the creation of forums for communication and
exchange between pygmies and other ethnic groups and accompany this process of
mutual understanding.
In an effort to implement the recommendations of the IPDP, consultants have been hired
under PAPNDP to carry out a study that will facilitate the participation of IPs in
development activities. Thus, the study will focus on:
(a) Awareness raising among IPs, government officials, traditional authorities, technical
and administrative services, as well as civil society to enable them to implement the
IPDP; for example, the consultant will develop a method for the co-financing of identity
cards and birth certificates on part of the IPs, and identify particular training needs among
IPs and Bantus; one of the outcomes of this part of the study will be improved confidence
among the IPs to negotiate with those who are trying to use their lands and to address
health issues.
(b) Socio-economic and cultural circumstances of the IPs; for example, the consultant
will study the production system of IPs; the importance of forests and their location; and
mechanisms for conflict resolution; one of the outcomes of this part of the study will be
4



concrete procedures for the establishment of land tenure and villages for IPs as well as
the designation of chiefs.
(c) Issuance of birth certificates and identity cards and provision of related training for
the various participants in this process; for example, the consultant will make the
necessary contacts and assist the iPs in obtaining such documents; the result of this work
would be that TPs will have access to goverment services; the dependence of Ps on
other ethnic groups will progressively decline; and the IPs will be able to retain their
cultural and social identity.
(d) Preparation  of local and   communal development plans, and     subsequent
implementation of micro-projects; for, example, the consultant will assist with the
preparation of (i) local development plans specifically for IP communities; (ii) micro-
projects that address the needs of gPs and requests for their financing; (iii) support for
environmental and social management of micro-projects in the context of the ESMF; and
(iv) support for participatory monitoring of project results, including the outcome of
micro-projects; the result of this work will be, among other things, the existence of
development plans for IPs; and the implementation of micro-projects that meet the needs
of fips.
Thus, the proposed Project will benefit from the results of this study, particularly with
regard to (i) the environmental and social management of micro-projects which are likely
to include measures for sustainable land management; (ii) mechanisms for conflict
resolution; (iii) concrete procedures for the establishment of land tenure and the
foundation of villages; and (iv) training of officials to ensure their effective interaction
with IPs.
5.0    Project Components
The GEF project components have been designed to accelerate investments in combating
land degradation and to promote the development of capacity, tools, and mechanisms for
communities' ownership in this process. The activities of these components will mitigate
the main barriers to adopting effective SLM best practices in Cameroon.
Component 1 - Inte2ratin2 SLM into Local Development (Total USS 56.964 m, GEE
US$ 3,894 m, IDA US 53.07 m)
The PAPNDP provides technical assistance to communes and communities to prepare, in
a participatory manner, their development plans and to address their local/communal
issues and needs. The development plans provide the basis for the selection and the
design of micro-projects. The eligible micro-projects may be in the domain of collective
social investments, public marketing infrastructure, rural finance and natural resources
management. Under PAPNcDP, grants are channeled to communes and communities to
co-finance their proposed micro-projects to reduce poverty by addressing their priority
needs.
5



Based on land-use and local development plans, and using an integrated landscape
approach, the GEF project will complement and co-finance community and communal-
driven micro-projects on SLM in its priority areas. Eligibility criteria for micro-projects
have been developed and agreed upon during pre-appraisal (cf. Annex 4 of the Project
Appraisal Document - PAD). A negative list of micro-projects (cf. Table 3 in Annex 4 of
the PAD) and a non-exhaustive positive list (cf. Table 2 in Annex 4 of the PAD) have
also been elaborated. The project intends to finance by project-end approximately 90
communal and 50 community projects; with the maximum cost for each type of
expenditure estimated at US$3,600,600, and US$400,000 respectively. Beneficiaries'
contributions will be the same for both communal and community micro-project; a 2%
financial contribution and 8% contribution in kind (labor, material).
These projects will enable communities to help halt land degradation while conserving
the unique biodiversity (including agro-sylvo-biodiversity), hence improving its
productivity. While building on Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) in the design
and implementation of SLM practices, the activities to be supported include financing
micro-projects on SLM to reduce soil erosion and water runoff and to improve vegetative
cover, through the promotion of sound technologies such as contour planting, renewal of
degraded hillsides and pastures, ecologically sound water management, application of
conservation tillage systems, tree planting, windbreaks, grassed waterways.
Target Group and Main Outcomes:
The component 1 will target: (i) rural communes and rural community-based
organizations (CBOs with legal status), particularly resource-poor farmers (subsistence
and small-sized farmers) living in critical areas for land management and biodiversity
conservation and women, who for example in the North and Adamaoua Provinces lack
access to water and fuel-wood and may need some support in developing water facilities
and community and/or communal forests; and (ii) indigenous and minority groups such
as the Pygmies and Bororos. To avoid capture of resources by elites and in line with
PAPNDP's on-going approach, the project would ensure that every process (preparation
of local development plans, formulation of micro-projects requests, and implementation)
is participatory and management of resources is transparent. Detailed description of this
process is being included in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The main
outcome is the promotion and adoption of good practices on sustainable land
management by communes/communities, through proper implementation of demand-
driven micro-projects.
Component 2 - Institutional support for enabling environment for SLM (Total US$
17.1079m, GEF US$ 1.3279m, IDA US$ 15.78m)
Sub-Component 2.1 - Institutional support to the land reform process: (Total
US$ 6.2627m, GEF US$ 0.7027m, IDA US$ 5.56m)
The PNDP supports the decentralization process in Cameroon by strengthening local
governance to give accountable decentralized authorities the legal authority and human
and financial resources needed for local development. It will increase sensitization on
6



decentralization through its support to the Ministry of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization (MNATD) outreach and communication campaigns for administrative
decentralization. It provides financial resources for studies and technical and advisory
services to support the finalization of the preparation of legal and regulatory frameworks
for local governance in particular regarding fiscal decentralization, including on
mechanism to transfer funds to municipalities.
Under this sub-component, GEF resources will complement the actions undertaken by the
PAPNDP focusing on the development and reinforcement of policies, regulations, and
institutional frameworks at decentralized levels to address land degradation and to
integrate SLM issues into appropriate rural development policy frameworks. The project
will reinforce the capacity and accelerate the process of multi-sectoral coordination
among key ministries to promote sound SLM policies, programs and guidelines'. Building
upon ongoing efforts by the Government, the project will support the review and
adoption of legal text(s) on land use, with the objective of preparing and implementing
land use plans at the provincial and community levels. This plan would be a useful
decision making and development planning tool for rationalizing land use and tenure at
the local level. It would emphasize such factors as vulnerable soils (in terms of existing
or potential erosion), levels of soil fertility, arable land, fallow areas and agro-sylvo-
pastoral suitability. To this end, a GIS-based Management Information System (MIS)
being developed by the Government will be utilized by the project, to track socio-
economic trends and patterns. Rationalization could also include, if necessary, measures
to reduce the current level of active land use. It will foster increased dialogue between
local government rural communities and their leaders, farmers, herders and other
resource users and will enhance incentives for the adoption, replication, and sustainability
of SLM practices. The GEF incremental resources will finance: workshops, training,
study tours, studies and consulting services.
Target Group and Main Outcomes
The targeted groups of this component are policy makers, key ministries and
decentralized entities, rural communities, including traditional, local authorities, farmers
and herders' association, and other resource users. The main outcomes are (i) a
comprehensive policy and institutional framework to support sustainable land
management; (ii) strengthened awareness and coordination among key ministries to
promote sound SLM policies, programs and guidelines (iii) land use planning and
sustainable land management integrated into zoning processes and GIS databases and
maps and (iv) land use plan integrated at the local level.
Sub-Component 2.2 - Enhancing capacity building at the local level: (Total US$
10.8452m, GEF US$ 0.6252m, IDA US$ 10.22m
Under the PAPNDP, the capacity of communes will be strengthened through targeted
training and programs (communal accounting, decentralization, conflict resolution, and
local development) for elected decentralized authorities and commune staff. Local
implementing agencies and/or technical agents are contracted out to strengthen the
beneficiaries' capacity in the preparation of local and communal development plans,
7



micro-projects, and their implementation. While assisting communities in the
participatory planning process, facilitators will be able to assess community capacities
and design specific training and outreach programs to be implemented by specialists
contracted by the project. This training will allow beneficiaries to gradually take on more
responsibilities and will increase their ownership of micro-projects.
Under this sub-component, the proposed GEF project will benefit from the critical
training of beneficiaries being undertaken under PAPNDP. It will support capacity
building and training of local communities with regards to the effects of land degradation
on their welfare as well as means of integrating good practices into local and communal
project planning. This component will also facilitate the preparation and development of
awareness-raising programs through local press, workshops and training seminars, for the
benefit of targeted communes, communities, NGOs and concerned line-ministries.
Eligible activities would include consultant services and training for: (i) preparing
integrated land management plans and using simple land-use planning tools; (ii) sharing
and disseminating knowledge on improved farming methods; (iii) implementing practices
entailing more efficient use of natural resources; and (iv) taking stock of innovative SLM
technologies and their dissemination. To the greatest extent possible, activities will
promote locally appropriate technologies and customized approaches to land
conservation and rehabilitation. The activities of this sub-component will be realized in
conjunction with several research institutions selected on a competitive basis.
The PAPNDP will finance: (i) studies to assess communes' capacities and development
capacity-building programs; (ii) training for elected decentralized authorities and
commune staff; (iii) accounting agents to be progressively taken charge by communes;
and equipment, mainly information technology to allow adequate financial management
and monitoring and evaluation. The GEF incremental resources will finance: workshops,
training, study tours, awareness campaign (advertisements on radio and in local press)
and consulting services.
Target Group and Main Outcomes
This sub-component will involve the following targeted groups: councils, communities,
rural development stakeholders, key concerned ministries, NGOs, indigenous people
(Pygmies) and vulnerable groups (the Bororos). The project outcomes are (i)
strengthened capacity of local communities in SLM good practices and (ii) increased
capacity of NGOs and public extension agents toward providing support on micro-
projects.
Component 3 - Supporting project management and coordination, monitoring and
evaluation and communication (Total US$ 13.7539m, GEF US$ 0.7839m, IDA US$
12.97m)
The PAPNDP ensures project coordination through workshops and meetings aimed at
better coordination among ministries, a better liaison with donors, and better national
communication. It has set up (i) a computerized monitoring and evaluation system to
follow activities in financial and technical terms and (ii) a knowledge management
8



system for decision makers. Stakeholders at every level are involved in gathering,
processing, analyzing, storing and disseminating the information required for transparent
and efficient decision-making, and for sound financial and technical monitoring of
activities.
Under this component, the GEF project will benefit from PNDP's management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation and communication systems already in place.
Land degradation and biodiversity parameters will be integrated into existing M&E
systems already in place (see results expected and tentative indicators in the result
framework). It will be complemented by usage of the GIS-based land-use zoning map and
associated MIS, which will facilitate optimal replication of activities to areas most
vulnerable to land degradation. This process will also provide a better handle on
evaluating the impacts of various interventions on SLM. GEF resources will finance
incremental project management and monitoring needs: workshops, office equipment and
supplies, vehicle, staff salaries for the accountant and SLM specialist, and related
operational costs.
Target Group and Main Outcomes
The target groups of this component are the following: the project unit office, mainly its
implementing agencies and its monitoring and evaluation unit. The main outcomes would
be (i) effective monitoring and evaluation, (ii) efficient and timely technical and financial
progress report and (iii) dissemination of project impacts and results.
9



I
i
I
i
I



Volume 1
Republique du Cameroun                          Republic of Cameroon
MINEPAT                                      MINEPAT
Ministere des Affaires lconomiques,               Ministry of Economic Affairs,
de la Programmation                           programming and regional
et de I'Am6nagement du Territoire                      development
Indigenous People ("pygmy") Development Plan
for the
Participatory Community Development Programme
(PNDP = Programme National de Developpement Participatif)
June 2003
Final Report
prepared by
Dr. Kai Schmidt-Soltau
Freelance Consultant
Email: SchmidtSol@aol.com
FILE COPY



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  2
TABLE OF CONTENT
I EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                               3
2 INTRODUCTION                                                    7
3 BASELINE INFORMATION ON THE "PYGMY"-POPULATION                 11
3.1 LIMITATIONS                                                  12
3.2 THE BAKA AND KOLA IN CAMEROON                                14
3.3 SOCIAL ORGANISATION                                          14
3.4 THE BAKA AND KOLA WITHIN THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK OF THE STATE    17
3.5 ECONOMY AND ENVIRONMENT                                      18
3.6 THE TRADITIONAL SYSTEM OF LAND TENURE                        19
3.7 THE ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES OF THlE BAKA AND KOLA WITHIN THE LEGAL
FRAMEWORK                                                    20
3.8 PHILOSOPHY                                                   21
3.9 EDUCATIONAL SERVICES AND ACCESS TO HEALTH FACILITIES         21
3.10 THE INTERACTION WITH THE NEIGHBOURING ETHNIC GROUPS         22
3.11 THE INTERACTION WITH OTHER PROJECTS                         23
4 IMPACT AND RISK ASSESSMENT - PROPOSALS FOR MITIGATION AND
COMPENSATION MEASUREMENTS                                     25
4.1 COMPONENT 1: FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
(AFDCR)                                                      27
4.2 COMPONENT 2: STRENGTHENING OF COUNCILS WITHIN THE DECENTRALIZATION
PROCESS                                                      38
4.3 COMPONENT 3: CAPACITY BUILDING AT THE LOCAL LEVEL            39
4.4 COMPONENT 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING               40
4.5 SUMMARY                                                      40
5 INDIGENOUS PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF THE PNDP                 42



*                          Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  3
I     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Government of Cameroon has applied for technical and financial assistance in the
preparation and implementation of a Participatory Community Development Program
(PNDP). This program constiutes an important element of the nadonal strategy for
poverty reduction, economic growth, decentralization and good governance outlined in the
nadonal poverty reducdon strategy. The PNDP aims to support community driven
development by allowing communities and their local government to implement priority
acdon plans through the strengthening of the fiscal, institutional, and administrative
environment for adequate budget allocation, effecdve service delivery, and transparent
management of financial services.
Beneficiaries of the PNDP consist of rural communities dispersed in all ten provinces of
Cameroon, as well as other organizations including local and regional public administration,
NGOs and other associations. A four year pilot phase will cover the provinces North,
Center, West and South. The PNDP consists of four components:
*    Financial support for rural community development (AFDCR);
*    Strengthening of councils within the decentralization process;
*    Capacity buiding at the local level; and,
*    Project management and monitoring.
The World Bank is planning to support the PNDP with a significant amount of money.
According to the Operational Directive 4.20. "special action is required, where Bank
investments affect indigenous peoples, tribes, ethnic minorities, or other groups whose social
and econornic status restricts their capacity to assert their interests and rights in land and
other productive resources." Following the OD 4.20, the main objective of this Indigenous
people development p/an (IPDP) is to assure that the PNDP will respect the dignity, rights and
culture of the indigenous population (IPs = Baka, Kola and Aka) in Cameroon and enable
situations in which "mechanisms [are] devised and maintained for participation by indigenous
people in decision making throughout project planning, implementation, and evaluation,"
and to strengthen the insdtutions through which IPs can participate in their country's
development. The OD fully recognizes that measures addidonal to those which are in place
for the majority of the population may have to have additional elements added to enable IP
to benefit from the project. This report shows how all these goals can be achieved.
From the legal point of view the IPs (in total around 30.000 individuals gathered in around
300 settlement in 33 councils) are citizens equal to all other people born in Cameroon, but
they have neither the same political influence, legal status, organizational, technical or
economic capacity as other groups in Cameroon. The Baka, Kola and Akas, who formerly
ranged over broad areas of uninterrupted forest as full-time hunters and foragers, have
increasingly been constricted to areas with home "bases" involving agriculture and outlying
areas where some hunting and gathering is still practiced, though with different technology
from the traditional net hunting. The former interdependence with village agriculturalists,
with Baka, Kola and Aka supplying village labour during the hunting off-season, and
villagers relying on pygmy production of meat and forest products from the wild, has
become a situation of increased dependence of pygmies on villagers for cash income, work,
and a few government-derived social services.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  4
Has the increased dependence on farming, sedentary life for much of the year, and the
desire to access social services turned "pygmy" communities into simple citizens of
Cameroon like others - a few ethnic groups among many others? Decidedly not. Not a
single Baka, Kola or Aka is working as a civil servant, no "pygmy" is a member of any of
the 339 councils, only one of Cameroon's 13,000 villages had a pygmy leader prior the
implementation of an IPDP in the Campo-Ma'an region. Even in the subdivisions, where
pygmies form 30 or 50 percent of the population, no leaders are themselves pygmies. Few
have identity cards that enable them to participate as citizens, because almost none can
afford the US$ 25 or so that it takes to acquire one. Nor do they have birth certificates,
needed to register as voters. Rough estimates of cash income indicate that pygmy
households may earn about'one third of average rural incomes in the country. They have
no way to acquire rights to "community forests" or to defend their possession of the
remnants of their "homelands" from outside interests. One divisional officer refused the
consultant permission to talk to "his pygmies," and in general the pygmies are simply seen
to be dependent, virtual non-members of the villages with whom they interact.
The PNDP proposes mechanisms for empowering local communities in Cameroon, but as
the present state it is most likely, that pygmy communities will not be able, or enabled, to
participate. Put most simply, their settlements are not recognized "communities", and
therefore they cannot interact legally with government service provision. Without special
steps, IPs will not be able to benefit from the PNDP that is national in scope and in
principle and by intention is open to everyone. There are several major risks resulting from
the PNDP, which have to be mitigated to insure that the Baka and Kola do not
* become even more marginalized in the Cameroonian society,
*  disintegrate for the decentralized system of administration,
*  receive less assistance from governmental services,
* have less capacities to defend their legal rights,
*  become or remain as dependents of other ethnic groups,
* lose control over the land traditionally utilized by them as source of livelihood and
basis for their cultural and social system,
*  have less access to education,
*  have less access to health infrastructure,
*  have less access to clean water,
*  have less income from agricultural production,
*  lose their cultural and social identity.
To mitigation these risks, the PNDP approved the following 15 activities. It is a mutual
understanding that only the full implementation of the IPDP and all its components fulfill
the requirements of the OD 4.20 and guarantee that the PNDP respects the rights, dignity
and culture of the Baka and Kola and offer them equal or better opportunities to
participate in the benefits offered by the PNDP. The PNDP undertook to
Establish equal legal opportunities
*    Establish equal legal conditions for Baka, Kola and Aka individuals (ID-cards).
*    Establish equal legal conditions for IP settlements (communities).
*    Establish community forest or traditional hunting zones for IP communities.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  5
Establish equal technical opportunities
*    Assist the Baka, Kola and Aka to establish action plans at local level.
*    Assist the IPs to participate equally in the elaboration of communal development plans.
Establish equal financial opportunities
*    Offer the Baka, Kola and Aka AFDCR financed projects at a subsidized rate.
*    Offer special programs for Baka, Kola and Aka to benefit from  job creating
opportunities within the PNDP program (teachers, health personal, civil servant etc).
Establish equal organizational opportunities
*    Assist the Baka, Kola and Aka in decision making processes.
*    Provide training on intercultural communication to civil servants and councilors
working in subdivisions with IPs.
*    Assist the Baka, Kola and Aka to establish independent bodies at the various levels to
coordinate, communicate and facilitate the above stated activities.
*    Include IP representatives in the various PNDP committees.
*    Establish a participatory monitoring and evaluation system for the IPDP of the PNDP.
Equal cultural opportunities
*    Sensitize the Baka, Kola and Aka on the risks of the development process.
*    Assist IP association in capacity building to preserve the loss of traditional
knowledge, culture and livelihood patterns.
*    Foster the creation of forums for communication and exchange between IPs and
other ethnical groups and accompany this process of mutual understanding.
The main actors of the IPDP are the PNDP in MINEPAT, the sub-department of
marginalized population in MINAS, the MINAT, national and international NGOs, the
associations of the indigenous people and the Baka, Kola and Aka themselves. At the
present level none of the primary stakeholders has the capacity to implement an IPDP in
accordance with the OD 4.20. Further training and an international supervising body is
needed to strengthen organization, technical and financial capacities.
The IPDP should be coordinated by independent steering committees at national,
provincial and council level assembling all stakeholders. The establishment of this
implementation structure will take time and will develop along with mutual discussions on
the IPDP. During this pilot phase of the IPDP (1-12/2004) an ad-hoc lPDP committee
will start operaions. The main focus will be on the establishment of the institudonal
framework, the sensitization of all stakeholders in general and the affected population in
particular, the gathering of baseline data and the tesing of more detailed activities in the
pilot councils of the PNDP. During the establishmcnt of the various committees (council,
provincial and national level), which will involve all Baka, Kola and Aka settlements, the
IPDP should be discussed in detail. Towards the end of 2004, when the IPDP committees
at council level will be established, the IPDP should be redefined in a participatory process
of all stakeholders.
In general, it can be presumed that the 15 activities of the IPDP, with a financial volume of
USD 3.5 Mill (- 2.5 % of the overall PNDP budget), are able to guarantee that the PNDP
is executed in accordance with the OD 4.20 and that



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  6
*    the PNDP strengthen traditional systems of governance and embrace the notion of
community dialogue and traditional chiefdoms for all ethnic groups;
* the PNDP reduces poverty for aUl ethnic groups and lower the dependence on and
degradation of natural resources and encourage conservation;
*    the PNDP places rural roads and associated services to enable a more sustainable
agricultural systems and timely evacuation of agricultural production;
*    the PNDP instaLls an effective management system of the natural habitats, which
offers positive impacts to the entire population and the biodiversity;
*    the PNDP increases the quality of social infrastructure (schools, health centres, sport,
leisure facilities, markets, etc.) and promotes sustainable rural development;
*    the PNDP respects the dignity, rights and culture of the Baka, Kola and Aka;
*    the PNDP assures that the Baka, Kola and Aka receive an equal or higher benefit
from the PNDP than other ethnic groups;
that the PNDP assists the Baka, Kola and Aka to increase their legal, political, societal,
economical, cultural and psychological situations.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  7
2     INTRODUCTION
The Government of Cameroon (GoC) has applied for technical and financial assistance
in the preparation and implementation of the Participatory Community Development
Program (PNDP = Programme National de Developpement ParticipatiW)'. This program
constitutes an important element of the GoC's strategy for poverty reduction, economic
growth, decentralization and good governance outlined in the national poverty reduction
strategy (DRSP = Document de strategie de reduction de la pauvrete). The PNDP,
which is a multi-donor program, is one instrument among others (as outlined in Annex
2) to achieve this common goal. The PNDP aims to support community driven
development by allowing communities (people living in different villages within one
subdivision) and their local government (councils) to implement priority action plans
through the strengthening of the fiscal, institutional, and administrative environment for
adequate budget allocation, effective service delivery, and transparent management of
financial services.2
Beneficiaries of the PNDP consist of rural communities dispersed in all ten provinces of
Cameroon, as well as other organizations including local (councils, villages) and
regional public administration, NGOs and other associations. While the first four year
phase will cover the provinces North, Center, West and South, it is foreseen that during
the two later phases (of four years each) the PNDP will be implemented in the entire
territory of Cameroon.
The PNDP consists of four components:
*    Financial support for rural community development (AFDCR = Appui financier
au Developpement des Communautes Rurales - in some documents also
abbreviated as FADCR);
*    Strengthening of councils within the decentralization process;
*    Capacity building at the local level; and,
*    Project management and monitoring.
The World Bank is planning to support the PNDP with a significant amount of money
(USD 50 Million). According to the Operational Directive 4.20. (OD 4.20) "special
action is required, where Bank investments affect indigenous peoples, tribes, ethnic
minorities, or other groups whose social and economic status restricts their capacity to
assert their interests and rights in land and other productive resources."
Due to the fact that the PNDP is a national program active especially in rural areas, it
can be expected that it affects ethnic minorities - in particular those people, who are
called by others "pygmies". Following the procedures of best practice - documented in
the OD 4.20 - an Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) should provide
additional information to the existing social and environmental impact assessment
(ERM 2003a) and the resettlement policy framework (ERM 2003b). Following the
Operational Directive 4.20 of the World Bank, the main objective of this IPDP is to
The English translation of the PNDP is elaborated in ERM 2003a.
2 The following introduction on the PNDP is based on the following documents: PNDP 2002a, PNDP
2002b, ERM 2003a, ERM 2003b, ToRs for IPDP (Annex 1).



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  8
assure that the PNDP will respect the dignity, rights and culture of the "pygmy"
population in Cameroon and assure that they are also benefiting from the PNDP (see
Terms of reference = Annex 1).
Following the OP 4.20 and the terms of reference this IPDP will "include the following
elements, as needed:
(a) Legal Framework The plan should contain an assessment of (i) the legal status of the
groups covered by the OD 4.20, as reflected in the country's constitution, legislation, and
subsidiary legislation (regulations, administrative orders, etc.); and (ii) the ability of such
groups to obtain access to and effectively use the legal system to defend their rights. Particular
attention should be given to the rights of indigenous peoples to use and develop the lands that
they occupy, to be protected against illegal intruders, and to have access to natural resources
(such as forests, wildlife, and water) vital to their subsistence and reproduction.
(b) Baseline Data. Baseline data should include (i) accurate, up-to-date maps and aerial
photographs of the area of project influence and the areas inhabited by indigenous
peoples; (ii) analysis of the social structure and income sources of the population; (iii)
inventories of the resources that indigenous people use and technical data on their
production systems; and (iv) the relationship of indigenous peoples with other local and
national groups. It is particularly important that baseline studies capture the full range of
production and marketing activities in which indigenous people are engaged. Site visits
by qualified social and technical experts should verify and update secondary sources.
(c) Land Tenure. When local legislation needs strengthening, the Bank should offer to
advise and assist the borrower in establishing legal recognition of the customary or
traditional land tenure systems of indigenous peoples. Where the traditional lands of
indigenous peoples have been brought by law into the domain of the state and where it
is inappropriate to convert traditional rights into those of legal ownership, alternative
arrangements should be implemented to grant long-term, renewable rights of
custodianship and use to indigenous peoples. These steps should be taken before the
initiation of other planning steps that may be contingent on recognized land titles.
(d) Strategy for Local Participation. Mechanisms should be devised and maintained for
participation by indigenous people in decision making throughout project planning,
implementation, and evaluation. Many of the larger groups of indigenous people have
their own representative organizations that provide effective channels for
communicating local preferences. Traditional leaders occupy pivotal positions for
mobilizing people and should be brought into the planning process, with due concern
for ensuring genuine representation of the indigenous population. No foolproof methods
exist, however, to guarantee full local-level participation. Sociological and technical
advice provided through the Regional environment divisions (REDs) is often needed to
develop mechanisms appropriate for the project area.
(e) Technical Identification of Development or Mitigation Activities. Technical
proposals should proceed from on-site research by qualified professionals acceptable to
the Bank. Detailed descriptions should be prepared and appraised for such proposed
services as education, training, health, credit, and legal assistance. Technical



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  9
descriptions should be included for the planned investments in productive infrastructure.
Plans that draw upon indigenous knowledge are often more successful than those
introducing entirely new principles and institutions. For example, the potential
contribution of traditional health providers should be considered in planning delivery
systems for health care.
(f) Institutional Capacity. The govemment institutions assigned responsibility for
indigenous peoples are often weak. Assessing the track record, capabilities, and needs of
those institutions is a fundamental requirement. Organizational issues that need to be
addressed through Bank assistance are the (i) availability of funds for investments and field
operations; (ii) adequacy of experienced professional staff; (iii) ability of indigenous
peoples' own organizations, local administration authorities, and local NGOs to interact
with specialized government institutions; (iv) ability of the executing agency to mobilize
other agencies involved in the plan's implementation; and (v) adequacy of field presence.
(g) Implementation Schedule. Components should include an implementation schedule with
benchmarks by which progress can be measured at appropriate intervals. Pilot programs are
often needed to provide planning information for phasing the project component for
indigenous peoples with the main investment. The plan should pursue the long-term
sustainability of project activities subsequent to completion of disbursement.
(h) Monitoring and Evaluation. Independent monitoring capacities are usually needed
when the institutions responsible for indigenous populations have weak management
histories. Monitoring by representatives of indigenous peoples' own organizations can
be an efficient way for the project management to absorb the perspectives of indigenous
beneficiaries and is encouraged by the Bank. Monitoring units should be staffed by
experienced social science professionals, and reporting formats and schedules
appropriate to the project's needs should be established. Monitoring and evaluation
reports should be reviewed jointly by the senior management of the implementing
agency and by the Bank. The evaluation reports should be made available to the public.
(i) Cost Estimates and Financing Plan. The plan should include detailed cost estimates
for planned activities and investments. The estimates should be broken down into unit
costs by project year and linked to a financing plan. Such programs as revolving credit
funds that provide indigenous people with investment pools should indicate their
accounting procedures and mechanisms for financial transfer and replenishment. It is
usually helpful to have as high a share as possible of direct financial participation by the
Bank in project components dealing with indigenous peoples." (OD 4.20)
The following report is the result of a short term consultancy carried out between March
10'h 2003 and Mai 9th 2003. In 20 consultancy days Dr. Kai Schmidt-Soltau, the
reporting consultant, assessed the impacts of and possible mitigation strategies for the
PNDP in a participatory manner and in close collaboration with all stakeholders
(governmental agencies, donor organization, indigenous populations in the meaning of
OD 4.20, other rural populace, NGOs, etc.). The research had three phases:



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  10
*    In the first phase, governmental bodies in charge of the PNDP (PNDP-Project
Coordination, MINEPAT) and of ethnic minorities (Cellule des populations
marginales et des sinistres, MINAS), donor organizations with projects affecting
indigenous people (Chad export project/World Bank, PGPA/GTZ, Profornat/GTZ,
ECOFAC & SNV), NGOs (CERAD, INADES, RECOPY & Catholic Mission)
and associations of indigenous people (ASBAK & CODEBABIK) were consulted
to elaborate background information and assess existing approaches towards the
integration of indigenous peoples into the development process.
*    In the second phase, consisting of two fieldtrips of 5 days each, the Baka and Kola
(the indigenous people covered in this study) were directly consulted. In the Baka
settlements of Moangue le Bosquet and Abakoum (in the Haut-Nyong Division,
East Province) and the Kola settlements (Bongouana, Maboulo and Mingo) (in the
Ocean Division, South Province) possible impacts and mitigation measurements
were discussed with the entire population and in separate meetings with the youth,
old, men and women. A first focus was the impact of the different forms of legal
administration (independent Baka/Kola village versus Baka/Kola quarter under a
"Bantu" village leader). The second focus was on the various experiences in the
implementation of community forests (incl. the participatory elaboration of a
management plan) and in particular the difference between the Baka/Kola-only
community forests and the joint "Bantu" and Baka/Kola community forests. A
third focus was the level of interaction with other ethnic groups and the various
perceptions of these interactions. Another point of discussion was the various
approaches in rural development applied by governmental bodies, international
donors and NGO, their impact on the Baka/Kola population and the Baka/Kola
perception of donors, NGOs and the Baka and Kola associations. Additionally, the
different elements and the expected results of the PNDP were discussed in detail
with different focus groups (forest management committees, traditional ruler &
members of Baka/Kola association) and the different strata of the Baka/Kola
society (old, young, men & women).
*    After the completion of the draft report, the findings and recommendations were
discussed in a participatory workshop (incl. 4 representatives of the Baka, 4
representatives of the Kola, and representatives of PNDP, MINAS and several
NGOs). The participants agreed with the general findings and recommendations
(see Annex 8). In a second workshop the IPDP was adapted by the PNDP. It will
be published in its present form as an official document of the Government of
Cameroon (see Annex 9).
Following the terms of reference (Annex I), the report has five chapters:
1. Executive Summary
2.   Introduction
3.   Baseline information on the "pygmy"-population
4.   Impact and risk assessment - proposals for mitigation and compensation
measurements
5.   Proposal for an indigenous people development plan of the PNDP



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)    11
3      BASELINE INFORMATION ON THE "PYGMY"-POPULATION
Pygmies have been a classic illusion of the unknown other and ultimate difference for
long. Consequently, Borges (1970: 188) labeled them as one set of "imaginary beings"
similar to banshees, sirens and trolls. But unlike the others, pygmies were identified
over the years with a corporal form.' In the following much was written about them.
While some scholars emphasized their homeostasis with a bountiful environment (Lee
& deVore 1968, Schebesta 1938-1958, Tumbull 1961) and proclaimed that hunter-
gatherer have found "a Zen solution to scarcity and affluence" (Sahlins 1968: 85) others
have criticized these works and their underlying concept of an original affluent society
(Lewin 1988) and have started to demystify the "noble savage".
Between 150,000 and 200,000 so called "pygmies" are living today in the rainforest
areas of Central Africa (Lee & Hitchcock 2001: 260), but these figures arc all but
precise. To define "pygmies" as a separate entity, they have to be distanced from their
neighboring agriculturists.2 Genetic studies have indicated that the differences between
the "pygmies" and their neighbors are great enough to have required about 20,000 years
of isolation (Cavalli-Sforza 1986: 414) and "pygmies" and their neighbors see the other
as socially, economically, ideologically and politically different vice versa (Bahuchet
1993a). They are usually grouped by their languages (Table 1):
Ethnic groups    Region, population, classification of language and interrelation  Source
(synonyms)       with nelghboring ethnic groups
Cameroon (along the border with the Central African Republic),
Central African Republic and Republic of Congo)
Aka (Mbenzele,   30,000 - 35,000 (less than 500 in Cameroon)               Demesse 1980,
Bayaka, Babinga) Bantu language. Permanent links with groups of Ubangians Bahuchet, 1985
(Ngbaka, Yangere, Bofi, Biyanda) and Bantus (Ngando, Mbati,
Pande, Pomo, Mbimu, Kako, etc)
Asua (Aka,       Democratic Republic of Congo
different from the Approx 5,000                                            Bailey et al.,
Aka in the CAR; Sudanese language. In contact with Mangbetu groups (Maelc, Meje, 1990
Bambuti)         Aberu and Popoi), Babudu, Bandaka, Baberu, Babali.
Georg Schweinfurth encountered some forest-dwellers in the heart of the central African rainforest
and wrote: "at last, I was able veritably to feast my eyes upon a living embodiment of the myths of
some thousand years!" (Schweinfurth 1873,2: 127)
2 Since this study is an indigenous people development plan according to the operational policy 4.20 of
the World Bank, it seems necessary to refer to the definition provided there: "The terms 'indigenous
peoples,' 'indigenous ethnic minorities,' 'tribal groups,' and 'scheduled tribes' describe social groups
with a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society that makes them vulnerable to
being disadvantaged in the development process. (...) Because of the varied and changing contexts in
which indigenous peoples are found, no single definition can capture their diversity. Indigenous
people are commonly among the poorest segments of a population. They engage in economic
activities that rangc from shifting agriculture in or near forests to wage labour or even small-scale
market-oriented activities. Indigenous peoples can be identified in particular geographical areas by the
presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (a) a close attachment to ancestral
territories and to the natural resources in these areas; (b) self-identification and identification by others
as members of a distinct cultural group; (c) an indigenous language, often different from the national
language; (d) presence of customary social and political institutions; and (e) primarily subsistence-
oriented production." (World Bank OP.4.20)



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  12
Babongo (Akoa,  Gabon                                                    Bailey et al.,
Bazimba)        Bantu languages.                                         1990
Cameroon (South of east province and east of south province),  Temay 1948,
Central Afncan Republic, Gabon, Republic of Congo        Vallosr &
Biba   Babina, 30,000 to 40 000 (in Cameroon approx 25,000)              Marleyr 1976,
Baa, b     ga, Ubangian language. Permanent links with the Bantu (Kwele,  1a990 eDual
Bangombe)    Mbomam, Mvonmvon, Konabemebe, Djem, Nzime) and Ubangians 1993, Doins
(Bangando, Gbaya).                                       1993.
Democratic Republic of Congo
Efe (Bambuti)   Approx. 10,000                                           Bailey et al.,
Sudanese language. Permanent relationships with the Lese, Karo,  1990
Mvuba, Lombi, Mamvu and Bira.
Kola (Gyele,    Cameroon (Western part of the south province), Equatorial Guinea.  Sciwert 1926,
Bajeli, Bogyeli,  Approx. 3,500 ((in Cameroon approx 3,000)              1949, Loung
Bako, Bekoe,    Bantu language. Contacts with the Basa, Ngumba, Mabea, Batanga, 1991, Kopperl
Bakola, Babinga) Iyasa.                                                  1991.
Democratic Republic of Congo
Mbuti (Basua,   Approx. 7,500                                            Bailey et al.,
Kango)          Bantu language. In contact with the Babila, Bandala in the centre  1990
and south of Ituni.
Democratic Republic of Congo
Twa of the      Approx. 14,000                                           Pagezy 1988
Ntomba          Bantu language. A caste within the following societies: Mongo,
Ntomba, Ekonda, Bolia (called Oto).
Democratic Republic of Congo
Twa of Kasai    Approx. 5,000                                            Pagezy 1988
Bantu language. Contacts with the Luba and Ndengese.
Tab.1. The various "pygmy" groups in the central African subregion.
3.1    LIMITATIONS
This study focuses solemnly on Cameroon and those "pygmies" living in Cameroon.
Due to the limited time, the few Akas, who have camps on the Cameroonian side of the
border with the Central African Republic were not visited during the fieldwork phase
(in accordance with the ToRs) and are consequently not covered in detail in the
background and impact assessment section of this report. It is assumed that this
limitation does not influence the quality of the study, because the Aka in Cameroon are
closely related to the Baka (Bahuchet 1993), share their livelihood pattems (Bahuchet
1990) and will face - most probably - the same risks and impacts as the Baka. The only
difference might be, that it will be more difficult to iegalize their settlements and land
use titles etc., because they are perceived by government officials as citizens of the
Central African Republic (pers. Comm.).
Some publications (Logo in press, Atangana 1999) hold the view that there is at least
one more group of "pygmies" in Cameroon. Based on the work of Barbier (1978), they
claim, that the Medzan or Bedzang (a group of about 1,500 individuals - Atangana
1999) are also "pygmies". The scientific literature does not follow this request, because
these people live as agriculturists outside the forest - in the Tikar plain in the northern
part of the central Province - and do not utilize a separate language (SIL 2000).



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  13
The research conditions were most of the time very good, but it would have been easy
to spend the double amount of time for the elaboration of the IPDP. Governmental
bodies, NGOs and the rural population were very open and interested in the IPDP and
the PNDP and participated actively in all discussion. Especially my host in the field
(Valere and Simon in the east and Pierre and Charles in the south) were very
instrumental for the elaboration of the report. Nevertheless, in Akom 2 (a PNDP pilot
council), the divisional officer prohibited my communication with chiefs of the various
Kola villages in the region, the NGO FAGAPECAM, and did not allow me to invite any
representative of the Kola settlements to the workshop in Yaoundd. His argument was,
that I did not apply for a research permission and that it is without this permission -
even for a consultant of a governmental body (MINEPAT) - illegal to discuss in "his
subdivision" with any of "his subjects" and particular with any of "his pygmies".



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  14
NICEIUARI     ;A2                                  30; 
_             CAMEROON    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPtUBU      SUDAN         S.
WA     I >  '  f  >    .         2 UCADA
BONO 
ii .    i                     CW a-so  (5TW'>  
e r  'CWAi   | ejJ  p>\/ TANZANIA
.20> 15J  I; :>,   |   .  .xA300
Fig. 1: The different "pygmy" groups in Central Africa. Source: Bahuchet 1993b: 38
3.2   THE BAKA AND KOLA IN CAMEROON
In the following, short background information on the Baka and Kola will be presented.
While it is not suitable for an ethnological and anthropological study to present two
ethnic groups as entity, I will do so in this report - which is not addressed to a scientific
audience - and refer for a more detailed introduction on the difference and specific
elements of the two groups to the literature quoted in table 1.
3.3   SOCIAL ORGANISATION
The smallest social unit among the Baka and Kola is the residence group (band), which
is characterized by a separate compound like-settlement, which exists even within Baka
or Kola "villages". The members of the bands are living together throughout the year
and have joint forest camps and land use areas. Each band is composed of different
nuclear families and assembles around 50 individuals (Tsuru 1998:50). Due to the fact
that men remain most of the time within their band when they get married, the social
stratification can be described as patrilineal kinship. Consequently, a group of senior
men, who were born within the band, is generally taking leadership in decision making.
Due to the strong believe in the patrilineal ties - even though it is not as elaborated as
among other groups - most bands are related to some other bands in their area. This
more abstract level has its importance in the cultural live (joint rituals, incest taboo etc.)
but can not be regarded as political nor geographical entity.
The decision making process at village level is searching for a consensus among all
elders of the various band living within the village (in some villages up to 10). As to be
expected in patrilineal kinship systems, women are hardly ever involved in the decision
making process, even in cases, where the point of discussion is considered as a women
topic (gathering, fanning, etc.).



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  15
For external affairs (interactions with strangers, government officials, traders, etc.) each
band appoints a leader-like-person - called kokoma in Baka -, whose qualification is
mostly an "advanced" knowledge of French or a good relation with a govemment or
"Bantu"-village official. The kokoma is a nominal leader for external affairs only and
does not have any authority within the band. In accordance with this system of external
relation have the independent Kola villages selected a "traditional ruler" to participate at
meetings on council and sub-divisional level. But to perceive these chiefs as legal
representative of the village, whose statements reflect the view of the village and are
binding for there people is totally wrong. Social and political organization above the
level of the band is a quite recent invention and does not go along with the traditional
"consensus approach" of social interaction.
Nevertheless, charitable organizations (in particular the Catholic Church), development
and conservation projects (in particular the SNV) have "assisted" the Baka and Kola to
formn two associations to secure the survival of Baka and Kola culture and protect their
form of livelihood against "modernity" (pers. Comm.). Till date, both associations are
heavily dependent on the organizational, technical and financial support of their donor
organizations and the support of several NGOs working on and with the Baka and Kola
population. The Baka NGO (ASBAK), which has offices in Lomie and Abong Mbang,
was founded by former SNV extension-officers of Baka origin. The key group of actors
is quite limited (not more than 10) and is perceived by SNV as "elite-association, with
little or no relation with the ordinary Baka" (pers. Comm.), while most Baka
interviewed were quite positive towards them (pers. Comm.). Nevertheless, ASBAK
was conceptualized by some Baka informants as "hyper-kokoma" - a link to the outside
world, without a say on internal affairs - (pers. Comm.). The association of the Kola
(CODEBABIK) is even weaker. The leading group does not assemble more than 5
people - all of the same band - and is hardly known among other bands. CODEBABIK
is perceived by the NGO-network working on and with the "pygmy" population
(RACOPY) as one man show (pers. Comm.), which might be true, but is closely related
to the traditional Kola concept of external affair management. From the critical point of
view, one can argue, that it can not be the responsibility of the Kola extemal affair
spokesperson, if NGOs miss-conceptualize him as representative according to the
European or American concept of representation.
Associations of the Baka and Kola (Abbreviation and name)  Location
ASBAK = Association de Baka de Lomi6                           Lomie
ASBAK = Association de Baka de Abong Mbang                     Abong Mban
CODEBABIK = Le Comite de d6veloppement des Bakola des arrondissements de Bipindi
Bipindi et Kribi
Tab.2:    The existing associations of the Baka and Kola population
The various NGOs working on and with the Baka and Kola are assembled in the Reseau
de Recherche - Actions Concertees Pygmees (RACOPY) and are of various origin and
backgrounds. While the organizations related in one way or the other to the catholic
church (FONDAF, FONDAM, Foyes de Djoum, AAPPEC, CODASC) have a long
established relationship with the Baka and Kola population, the environmental NGOs



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  16
and development or conservation projects have started their interaction with the Baka
and Kola quite recently. Nevertheless, especially the SNV staffs has a much elaborated
knowledge on and close interaction with the Baka in and around Lomi6 and in and
around Kribi, Ma'an, Campo and Akom 2.
NGOs working on or with Baka and Kola (Abbreviation and name)            Location
RACOPY = Reseau de Recherche - Actions Concertees Pygmees                 Yaounde
South Province
FONDAF = Foyer notre dame de la foret                                     Bipindi
Planet survey                                                             Lolodorf
FAGAPECAM = Federation des associations, des GICs des agriculteurs, pisciculteurs  Akom 2
et eleveurs du Cameroun
FONDAM= Foyer notre dame de la foret                                      Kribi
Projet Campo Ma'an (SNV)                                                  Kribi
Foyer des jeunes filles Baka de Djoum                                     Djoum
CED = Centre pour 1'environnement et le d6veloppement                     Djoum
East Province
CADEF = Comite d'action pour le developpement des femmes de Lomie et ses  Lomie
environnement
PERAD = Protection de 1'environnement recherche et appui au developpement  Lomi6
AJDUR = Association des jeunes pour la gestion durable des ressources     Lomie
CIAD = Centre international d'appui au developpement durable              Lomie
SDDL = Projet Soutien au d6veloppemcnt durable de la r6gion de Lomrie/Dja  Lomie
AAPPEC = Association pour l'autopromotion des populations de l'Est du Cameroun  Lomie
SNV = Netherlands development organization                                Lomi6
AAPPEC = Association pour I'autopromotion des populations de I'Est du Cameroun  Les Bosquet
AAPPEC = Association pour l'autopromotion des populations de I'Est du Cameroun  Djouth
AAPPEC = Association pour I'autopromotion des populations de l'Est du Cameroun  Ndelele
OAPIDE = Organisation d'appui aux initiatives dc developpement et de l'environnement  Mindourou
AAPPEC = Association pour l'autopromotion des populations de I'Est du Cameroun  Abong Mbang
AAPPEC = Association pour l'autopromotion des populations de l'Est du Cameroun  Salapombe
OCBB = Observatoire des cultures Baka et Bantou pour l'education environnemental  Ngoyla
et le developpement communautaire
CODASC = Comit6 Diocesain d'Appui aux Activit6s Socio Caritatives         Yokadouma
AAFEBEN = Appui pour l'autopromotion des femmes de la Bomba et Ngoko      Yokadouma
AAPPEC = Association pour l'autopromotion des populations de I'Est du Cameroun  Yokadouma
AAPPEC = Association pour l'autopromotion des populations de l'Est du Cameroun  Molondo
SNV = Netherlands development organization                                Yokadouma
PROFORNAT Project (GTZ)                                                   Yokadouma
CIFAD = Cercle international de formation pour le d6veloppement           Yokadouma
CERAD = Centre de recherche et d'action pour le developpement durable     Bertua
Tab.3:      A list of NGOs working on and with the Baka and Kola population



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  17
3.4   THE BAKA AND KOLA WITHIN THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK OF THE STATE
From the legal point of view, Baka and Kola are citizens equal to all other people born
in Cameroon (Preamble of the constitution of 18/1/1996), but they are neither
represented in any of the 339 councils in Cameroon, nor in the state administrmtion nor
the parliament and not a single Baka or Kola is working as civil servant (pers. Comm.).
Among the 13,000 villages in Cameroon, only one has a Baka as governmentally
recognised leader (Moangu6 le Bosquet). In the Ma'an, Campo and Akom 2 subdivision
most Kola settlements are due to the assistance of the SNV and following
recommendations of GEF, which is funding the conservation project Campo/Ma'an (run
by SNV), certified as independent villages. This very recent development was only
achieved following external influence (pers. Comm.) and had a very limited magnitude,
because it is limited solemnly to these three subdivisions. In none of the neighboring
subdivisions, which also assemble significant Kola populations, any Kola settlement
managed to be certified as independent village. As justification, territorial
administration refers to the fact that all Baka or Kola settlements are due to the
historical links with their "Bantu" neighbors parts of these "Bantu" villages (pers.
Comm). This might be true, but if Kola settlement are allowed to separate from their
"Bantu" neighbors with the blessing of the government in one part of the country -
which is perceived by the Kola as a very positive achievement -, it seems not logic to
prohibit and/or delay the process of village independence in other areas. The option to
act as separate villages is very important for the development of the Baka and Aka,
because only villages - as the lowest administrative entity in Cameroon - hold rights
over the territory and the utilization of revues.
The misrepresentation of Baka and Kola even in those sub-divisions in the south of the
east province, where especially the Baka form a significant proportion of the population
(between 20% and 50 %) has several reasons. Beside of problems of compatibility of
the traditional setting with the democratic way of decision making through
representatives, the fact that most Baka and Kola do not hold ID-cards or birth
certificates, which are necessary to enroll as voters during elections, is seen as ample
justification by the local administration (pers. Comm.).
The President of the Republic of Cameroon - Paul Biya - made clear, that "the pygmies
are not different from any other Cameroonian citizen" (Biya quoted in: Logo 2002), but
to act as an equal citizen, the Baka and Kola need ID-cards. Beside of documented cases
of racism among the local civil servants in charge of issuing ID-Cards (pers. Comm.), it
is mostly the monetary aspect, which makes it difficult for the Baka and Kola to act as
full Cameroonian citizens. My informants stated, that the whole procedure costs at least
FCFA 15,000 (USD 25), which is far beyond the financial capacities of most Baka and
Kola (the average total annual cash income per capita among the Baka and Kola is said
to be around USD 50). RACOPY has applied to the governors of the south and the east
province - in accordance with best practices, which prescribe special attention and rights
to minorities (Leurat 1998) - to assist the Kola and Baka in their struggle to obtain ID-
cards, by providing ID-cards to Baka and Kola at subsidized prizes, but without much



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  18
success. In general my informants and the NGOs contacted are of the view, that it is not
the central administration or the legal setting as such, which make it difficult for Baka
and Kola to receive equal treatment by governmental administration, but the ignorance
of the individuals in charge (pers. Comm.).
The governmental structure in charge of indigenous people (Sub-department of
marginalized population and victims), which is based in MINAS, is understaffed (I
chief of service and I field officer) and under-budgeted (in fact they do not have a
separate budget, no vehicles or travel allowances) and due to that unable to carry out
any sensitization and/or training outside the national capital (pers. Comm.). The NGOs
assembled in RACOPY are also prepared to offer sensitization and training for
governmental extension officers, but did not manage to receive funding for these
activities (pers. Comm.). At divisional and sub-divisional level, the MINAS structures
are prepared to assist the Baka and Kola in their struggle to become more involved into
the development process and it is said that MINAS had quite a positive impact in the
area of educational assistance (pupil and student grants, educational material and
subsidized medical services) before the economic problems in the mid 90ties. Today
they have hardly the means to carry out any activity. A sub-divisional delegation of
MINAS has an annual operational budget of FCFA 450,000 (- USD 670) for all
activities including among others the work with marginalized population. In contrast to
govemmental bodies, some of the NGOs are quite well equipped, but it is said, that the
overheads and central administration is often consuming most of the budget. Former
field officers of SAILD, which had a Kola project in the Lolodorf subdivision, stated
that from a general budget of FCFA 430 Mill. only 60 Mill. were used for operational
activities.
Within the double structure of administration in rural areas (appointed divisional
officers administering sub-divisions and elected mayors running rural councils) the
interests of Baka and Kola are often at the mercy of civil servants without any
sensitization or training in intercultural communication and/or elected mayors, which
are seeing themselves as representatives of their voters, which are - due to the low
number of Baka and Kola with ID-cards - mostly "Bantu".
The Baka and Kola are due to these problems and as a result of their low capacities to
argue within the legal framework of the state, which is again a result of the absence of
ID-cards and their low level of integration into the national education system - which is
at secondary level only open to citizens -, hardly able to defend their right.
3.5   ECONOMY AND ENVIRONMENT
From the original setting Baka and Kola are pure hunter-gatherer, who hardly cultivate
anything. Several sedentarisation campaigns during and after the colonial times resulted
in the fact, that already in the sixties most Baka and Kola had a permanent plot, where
they live most of the year (Althabe 1965). During the process of sedentarization the
Baka and Kola adopted the subsistence mode of agriculture practiced by the other ethnic
groups resident in the region. During most of the year, the Baka and Kola stay in their



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  19
permanent settlements, where the men slash and burn the forest and the women plant
and harvest crops. There is a significant difference in the level of sedentarisation
between the Kola and Baka. While the Kola hardly go out for longer and further hunting
trips, the Baka, who live outside the major villages, are still quite mobile and spend up
to 1/3 of their time in the forest.
Both groups live most of the time in semi-permnanent settlement near the villages of
agriculturists and maintain economic and ritual relationship with these villagers, but
during the major dry season (November to March) the Baka move to their forest hunting
camps, while the Kola only carry out short-term hunting trips (up to a week). While the
Kola have - due to their limited hunting activities - not maintained their hunting camp
lifestyle, most Baka bands have several camp-sides far inside the forest. Camps are
changed as soon as the animal population and availability of non-timber-forest-products
around the camps is reducing - a quite good indicator for sustainable forest
management. The traditional hunting methods (spear hunting and net hunting) are dying
out and most Baka and Kola men use snares. My Kola informants could not even
remember that they ever went hunting with nets or other traditional hunting tools. The
level of hunting has increased in the last years due to a high demand for dried bush-
meat. Especially young men are able to generate some income, which is mostly spent on
drinks in their permanent camps. The women gather wild jams, iron leaves (gnetum
sp.), landolphia, various fruits and mushrooms in small groups, while the gathering of
wild honey is considered as a men's activity. Near the end of the dry season men and
women perform together fish-bailing in smaller streams. In general, it has to be said,
that the living conditions of forest societies such as the Baka and Kola are less idyllic
than the outsiders' perception of it. Logging, conservation activities (such as the
creating of national parks - Schmidt-Soltau 2003) and an increase in cash-crop farming
(solemnly organised by "Bantus") have reduced the space available for hunting and
gathering. Nevertheless, the Baka and Kola are not able to generate more than 30% of
the average cash-income of their neighboring agriculturist. While the "Bantus" are able
to generate around FCFA 100,000 (USD 150; Schmidt-Soltau 2002) per capita p.a., the
Baka and Kola do have an average annual cash income of around FCFA 30,000 (USD
50; pers. Comm.) per capita.
A spiritual, economic and health related risk arises from the logging of the Mouabi tree,
which is the only source of vegetable oil for the Baka and Kola. To compensate their
reduced hunting and gathering area, Baka and Kola had to adapt new hunting methods
and to abandon traditional gathering techniques and to become more and more involved
in pure agricultural livelihood pattern.
3.6   THE TRADITIONAL SYSTEM OF LAND TENURE
To explain the traditional system of land tenures is either quite easy - because it does
not exist in the form of landholdings etc - or quite complex, because land is managed
commonly. Before the "Bantu" expansion, the Baka and Kola bands were utilizing the
entire north-western part of the Congo-basin for their hunting-gathering activities
~I



Indigenous pcople development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  20
demarcated in the east by the Sangha, in the west by the Atlantic, in the north by the
Sanaga and in the south by the Ntem. The bands and groups did not have a defined area,
but a quite elaborated system of sustainable forest management: as soon as the
utilization of a given area resulted in visible impacts (less success in hunting and
gathering) they changed to another area. With the arrival of the "Bantu", this system
changed in so far, as the "Bantus" used certain areas along the rivers for their slash-and-
burning agriculture and started to exchange this and that with the Baka and Kola. The
Baka and Kola started to stay parts of the rainy season close to the "Bantu" settlements,
to exchange dried mcet against manioc and other farm products to avoid periods of
hunger arising from the reduced hunting and gathering options during the rains. The
system of land tenure among the Baka and Kola did not change during that time, but the
territory utilized was reducing, since hunting and gathering does not make sense close to
agricultural areas. During the colonial and post-colonial times, plantations, population
increase, accelerated agricultural production at village level, conservation projects and
logging activities reduced the territory available for the Baka and Kola tremendously,
but they were and are not able to defend their land against external penetrations. The
reduced space available for hunting and gathering, the options to work as manual
laborer on the small scale plantations of the "Bantu" and the sedentarisation campaigns
resulted in longer and longer periods inside camps near the "Bantu" villages. From a
certain point on some Baka and Kola (in the west earlier than in the east) started to have
their own small garden-agriculture. Due to the lack of an own system of landholdings,
they utilized the land-tenure systems elaborated by the Bantu to manage these farms, but
maintained the idea of an open forest outside the agricultural area. Nevertheless, the
process of sedentarisation, together with the environmental degradation resulted in a
reduced area of forests utilized by the various Baka and Kola bands, because even their
small scale garden-agriculture does not permit them to travel far away from their farms
and permanent plots. While in discussions most Baka and to a lesser extent also the
Kola maintain the idea of a collective forest open for all, in reality one can demarcate
the extend of land utilized by the different bands and settlements (pers. Comm.), These
areas are under pressure because neither the Baka nor the Kola have developed efficient
strategies to protect the forest utilized by them. In the long run, the absence of
traditional methods and systems to defend their "property" against strangers and the
absence of legal landholdings (provided by governments) have resulted in an increasing
vulnerability of the livelihood, culture and lifestyle of the Baka and Kola, which are
forced more and more - due to the absence of the alternative to disappear to the forests -
to become dependents of their neighboring "Bantus".
3.7   THE ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES OF THE BAKA AND KOLA WITHIN THE LEGAL
FRAMEWORK
An important legal issue, which has a very negative impact on the livelihood of the
Baka and Kola, is the absence of individual or group related land use titles in Cameroon
(Fissy 1996). Due to that, the economic basis of the Baka and Kola depends on the
goodwill of government officials and/or their "Bantu" neighbors, who have in most



,                        Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  21
cases more elaborated capacities to discuss legal issues with governmental bodies. The
fact that all civil servants are "Bantus" increases the disadvantage for the Baka and
Kola. It has been argued for long, that property rights of land according to the common
law have to be acknowledged by all stakeholders (the state, the "Bantus" and the
"pygmies"), but it has not resulted in any legal recognition. Even the relatively new
form of communal ownership (community forest) does not include specific
measurements to legalize the traditional land use title of the Baka and Kola
communities. They are considered as parts of the nearby Bantu villages and remain due
to that without separate community forests (Abildo et al 2002). Informants from a Baka
settlement, which has a community forest together with their "Bantu" neighbors,
expressed the fear - based on their experiences with the distribution of forestry related
revenues - that they will not receive an equal share of the benefits generated by the
community forest.
3.8   PHILOSOPHY
The Baka and Kola have a full pantheon of spirits in their religious system. These spirits
- called me in Baka - are clearly distinguished from the Christian concept of God. They
are of the view that the spirits live in forest camps similar to those used by the Baka and
Kola. The spirits, are quite human like - they have two sexes, hunt animals, speak the
Baka/Kola language and sometimes play tricks on people, who do not behave according
to tradition (esp. those who do not like to stay in the forest) - and visit the camps in the
forest occasionally to dance and sing with the Baka and Kola. Spirits are quite positive
creatures, which do neither use sorcery nor witchcraft but assist individuals with.
educative dreams (providing useful information on forest related topics). Consequently
it is believed that "good people" are joining the spirits after their death (Joiris 1996).
Tsuru outlines a long list of rituals, which the Baka have to perform to keep in touch
with the me and also the Kola are investing quite something into their relation with the
world of the spirits. It is believed, that if these rituals are not performed (for example
because they do not have access to remote forests areas again) it results in negative
consequences for those who missed to perform their duty (Tsuru 1998).
3.9   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES AND ACCESS TO HEALTH FACILITIES
The times when education was perceived as a positive development per se has passed.
Nevertheless, all respondents and most authors (Atangana 1999, Kamei 2001) working
on the Baka and Kola are of the view, that formal education, despite its negative
impacts on traditional knowledge-systems, is of primary importance for the survival of
Baka and Kola identity in Cameroon (pers. Comm.).
In general, there are two different models employed in the education of ethnic
minorities. While Homan (1992) favors separate schools, which can be adapted more
easily to the lifestyle of mobile people, Garcia (1992) advocated for a joint education
with other ethnic groups. Both types of education systems are available for Baka and



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  22
Kola children, all under the supervision of the catholic mission in Cameroon. While the
boarding schools run by the Catholic Church (foyes) are exclusively addressing Baka
and Kola children, other catholic schools (Freres des ecoles chretiennes) utilize the
ORA (Observer, refl6chir, agir) method elaborated by Father Antoine, Father Wissmann
and Father Paul Cuypers. The integrative approach has the advantage that they open the
way for Baka and Kola children to progress within ordinary schools. The most
prominent and detailed publication (Kamei 2001) and most Baka and Kola interviewed
have no preference of which schooling type fits their interests best. They are aware of
the advantages and shortcomings of both schooling types and are waiting for the long
term results, because till date no Baka or Kola had made his way up to university level,
a goal which is seen as important benchmark.
Due to the fact, that the normal health system in Cameroon is based on advance-
payment of the consultation fee and medication, Baka and Kola are often - due to their
insufficient capacities to generate and store money - not able to afford the necessary
treatments for themselves and/or their children. The missions active in the region and
the major NGOs have adopted several different systems to cure the Baka and Kola -
mostly subsidizing the fees or the medication in one way or the other. The most
effective and elaborated system was installed - according to most NGOs contacted - by
the Dzanga-Sanga Project in the nearby Central African Republic. Aka "health scouts"
and a mobile clinic, which fits into two Aka baskets, keep contact between the different
bands and the medical services. While the patients have to pay for the consultation (the
equivalent of two bottles of local alcohol), the medication is provided free of charge.
While governmentally organized immunization campaigns often "miss" the Aka,
because they are during the campaign period - mostly December/January - not in their
permanent settlements, the project pays local trained health personnel to visit the Aka
even deep in the forest to offer free treatment and medical education (including
HIV/AIDS) (Kretsinger 1993). This system is considered as best practice, but due to
lack of finances not yet operational in Cameroon (pers. Comm.)
3.10 THE INTERACTION WITH THE NEIGHBOURING ETHNIC CROUPS
Baka and Aka have been in contact with other ethnic groups for at least 500 years
(Bailey et al. 1993), but the nature of this interaction, the length and its impacts for past,
present and future interaction varies not only between the different groups but even
between bands of the same group. This interaction has resulted in very different
perceptions and interpretations. While some describe the interaction between Baka,
Baka and their "Bantu" neighbors as slavery (Turnbull 1961), others see them as an
excellent intercultural partnership (Grinker 1994). The interaction as such existed for
long, but without an option to "disappear" into the forests (because the forest is no
longer accessible due to logging, farming or conservation projects), the exposure to the
monetary mode of interaction and the impact of governmental services (forced
sedentarisation, forestry laws etc.) changes the modes of interaction. The hunter-
gatherers lose parts of their economic and spiritual power and become more and more
dependents of their "Bantu" neighbors. Ngima (200 1) offers a list of "requests" made by



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  23
"Bantu" and Kola to keep their original harmonic form of interaction alive, which was
reproduced in one way or the other in my meetings with Baka, Kola and "Bantu"
population:
* Increase the involvement of internal and external elite in decision making
process on matters related to the utilization of forest.
* Fulfill the expressed needs by investing in the construction of roads, dispensaries
or health centers, schools, football fields, cultural animation etc.
* Bann the disordered logging by "strangers".
* Protect medical plants, fruit trees, wild yams and other plant and animal species
with have a cultural and economic (subsistence) value for the Baka, Kola and
"Bantu".
* Offer legal user rights following traditional land-use-patterns (esp. the Mouabi
tree).
* Establish a better regulation and monitoring of the work carried out in the forest
by the various actors.
* Assist in the sustainable management of forests.
* Employ the youth of the "Bantu" villages and the Baka, Kola settlements for all
kind of manual labor (infrastructure etc.).
* Legalize the traditional land use titles of the Baka, Kola and the "Bantu" (incl.
individual farmland and communal hunting and gathering zones).
* Involve at all cost the local people ("Bantu" and Kola) in the decision making
process. (Ngima 2001: 233).
The Baka, Kola as well as their "Bantu" neighbors are aware of the fragile nature of
their interaction and it was expressed in most meetings, that it is not bad intention,
which drives "Bantus" increasingly often to "disfavor" their Baka or Kola partners, but
the lack of opportunities to increase the income as a team. Both sides expressed their
availability for a joint approach to development, but they also made clear, that if
development is only possible at the cost of the Baka and Kola, most "Bantu" could not
afford to miss this opportunity because of economic reasons.
3.11 THE INTERA CTION WITH OTHER PROJECTS
As stated above a good number of development and conservation projects are active on
the territory utilized by the Baka and Kola. Some of these projects were able to establish
quite close relationships and to mitigate impacts, offer compensations and include the
Baka and Kola into the group of beneficiaries. Two projects (Projet d'Amenagement et
de conservation de la biodiversite de Campo-Ma'an and the Cameroon-Chad export
project), both financed by the World Bank, elaborated IPDPs and have started to
implement them. In the area of Campo, Ma'an and Akom 2 (the sub-divisions
surrounding the Campo-Ma'an forest reserve), Kola villages were assisted to achieve
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  24
their administrative independence and are at the moment - with the help of NGOs and
other service providers - in the process of applying for community forests. The
population affected by the conservation projects perceived the applied measurements
(promote village independence, facilitate the access of Kola communities to
governmental structures and decentralized services - incl. councils -, assist the Kola
with capacity building activities and protect traditional land use areas of the Kola with
the help of legal procedures for community forests) as successful assistance.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  25
4     IMPACT AND RISK ASSESSMENT - PROPOSALS FOR MITIGATION AND
COMPENSATION MEASUREMENTS
In the following, impacts on the Baka and Kola population which might result from the
PNDP esp. from the anticipated community micro-projects will be discussed in detail.
The chapter discusses the possible positive impacts and negative impacts of the PNDP
incl. cumulative impacts, and begins - following the logic of the logframe - with the
conclusions on the overall impacts of the PNDP.
In the positive scenario of a successful PNDP, which works in accordance with the
visions and approaches set up in the various PNDP documents and the World Bank
guidelines, the PNDP will foster full respect for dignity, human rights, and cultural
uniqueness, protect the indigenous people from suffering adverse effects during the
development process, and guarantee that the Baka and Kola receive culturally compatible
social and economic benefits equal or higher than those offered to other beneficiaries.
There are several major risks resulting from the PNDP, which have to be mitigated to
insure that the Baka and Kola do not
*  become even more marginalized in the Cameroonian society,
*  disintegrate for the decentralized system of administration,
* receive less assistance from governmental services,
*  have less capacities to defend their legal rights,
*  become or remain as dependents of other ethnic groups,
*  lose control over the land traditionally utilized by them as source of livelihood
and basis for their cultural and social system,
*  have less access to education,
*  have less access to health infrastructure,
*  have less access to clean water,
*  have less income from agricultural production,
*  lose their cultural and social identity.
Discussion with project sponsors and stakeholders indicate that all parties involved kre
prepared to assist the indigenous population to face these risks. Nevertheless, the low
level of decentralization in the existing governmental structures results quite often in a
low level of knowledge on the importance or even existence of the Baka and Kola
culture. The low competence of civil servants at council and other levels in dealing with
marginalized ethnic minorities results quite often in ignorance against these minorities
or in crude protectionisms, patronage systems and/or the celebration of "ethnic
domination". All these phenomena have to be considered as the main threat for the full
integration of the Baka and Kola population into the Cameroonian society and all
mitigation systems elaborated by the governmental authorities.
Before focusing on the detailed risks and impacts resolving from the four components
of the PNDP, the general societal setting has to be discussed. From the general risks
outlined above, three specific elements can be considered as institutional hindrance for
the Baka and Kola population to act as equal citizens:
IL



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  26
1    Most Baka and Kola do not have ID-cards - according to a survey organized by an
NGO less than 10 % - and are due to that not able to interact on a legal basis with
governmental services.
2.   Baka and Kola settlements are most of the time not considered administratively as
independent communities and are due to that most of the time not able to express
their common needs towards governmental institutions.
3.   Land-use-areas in Cameroon - especially those of ethnic minorities, hunter-
gatherer societies, and/or settlements without a legalized status as independent
communities - do not enjoy any form of legal protection.
Mitigation measurements:
1.   Following the recommendations of RACOPY (Reseau de Recherche - Actions
Concertees Pygmees - see Annex 6), sensitization campaigns for relevant civil
servants (those issuing birth-certificates, certificates of nationality and ID-cards in
the subdivisions with Baka and Kola population) and the Baka and Kola
population together with subsidized fees for the establishment of ID-cards for
Baka and Aka will guarantee that Baka and Kola are becoming citizens equal to
all other Cameroonians.
2.   Based on a sensitization campaign among divisional officers and other MINAT
civil servants in those subdivisions with Baka and Kola population and supported
by an order of MINAT to promote the administrational independence of Baka and
Kola communities, a discussion process with the Baka, Kola and "Bantu"
population of the various existing villages should be facilitated. This will lead to
an ethnically balanced decentralization and communal reorganization in
Cameroon. Following the recommendations of GEF, the implementing agency of
the Campo Ma'an forest reserve (SNV) has already tested these proceedings in the
Ma'an, Campo and Akom 2 subdivisions with success.
3.   Based on the legal procedures guiding the implementation of community forests,
the recommendations outlined under point 2 and supported by a well facilitated
discussion of all stakeholders (state, "Bantu" and Banka/Kola population) it
should be possible to establish over the years a well equipped community forest
for all Baka and Kola settlements, which allow the populace to continue to a
certain degree their hunter-gatherer lifestyle. In and around the Campo-Ma'an
forest reserve several NGOs supported by SNV and following the
recommendations of GEF have started the establishment of community forests for
Kola and for their "Bantu" neighbors. Even though not a single community forest
has been certified in the region yet, it is said that all stakeholders are accepting the
new land-use-laws, because they offer benefits for all. In the east province the
management committee of the Moangu6 le Bosquet community forest stated that
the key factor for the only certified "pygmy" community forest in Cameroon, was
the fact, that the surrounding "Bantu" villages received the same support.
In the following the overall positive environmental and social impacts - as outlined in
the Environmental and Social Management Framework - will be discussed in the



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  27
context of the outlined aims and objectives of the OD 4.20 and in view of the 4
components of the PNDP.
4.1   COMPONENT 1: RNANCIAL SUPPORT FOR RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
The objective of this component is to provide budgetary support for the implementation
of activities proposed by communities in their Community Development Plans at
council level and in Development Plans at local level. Priorities will be identified
through a participatory assessment with community stakeholders including village.
chiefs and peasant associations. To obtain budgetary support for a particular micro-
project or activity, communities will have to provide evidence of the following:
a) Prepared development plans using a participatory process;
b) Development of a priority action plans;
c) Set up clear management arrangements;
d) Offered contribution by the community (cash, labor, materials);
e) Opened a bank account;
f) Established legal status; and,
g) Application of environmental and social screening mechanisms for each micro-
project or activity.
Before focusing on the different activities to be financed through the AFDCR, it can be
said on the basis of the background information provided in chapter 2 and the
assessment of the organizational, technical and financial capacities of the Baka and
Kola villages, that at the present stage, none of the Baka or Kola settlement will be able
to establish a action plan (local level) on their own, participate as equal stakeholders in
an community development plan, establish legal procedures and/or apply environmental
and social screening mechanisms for their micro-projects. According to governmental
officers, NGO-representatives and the affected population themselves, it is presently
even difficult to involve the Baka and Kola population in the well facilitated and 100 %
outside financed approaches of the Catholic Church and/or the various NGOs acting as
implementing agents for SNV. Without additional assistance in the elaboration and
implementation of action plans, it can be expected that the high requirements to apply
for funding will exclude the Baka and Kola population from the group of possible
beneficiaries.
Beside of this overall risk - to be excluded from possible positive impact - specific risk
resolving from certain activities or project elements - outlined in the table 4 - there are
certain risks, which might in their cumulative appearance, hinder the full or even partial
integration of the Baka and Kola into the PNDP and obstruct their participation in the
documented possible positive impacts of the PNDP:
1.   The low economic capacities of the Baka and Kola communities might result in
the fact that they are not able to carry out some or even any project desired by
their populace.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  28
2.   The low capacities of governmental facilities and NGOs working with the
Baka/Kola in the perspective of intercultural communication might increase their
dependence from these service providers and increase their marginalization.
3.   The economic development intended by the PNDP might in the long run be
incompatible with the livelihood patterns, lifestyle and believe system of the Baka
and Kola and result in their assimilation.
Mitigation measurements:
1.   To reduce the risk that the Baka and Kola cannot provide the foreseen
contributions of the beneficiaries of projects financed by the AFDCR, the rate
should be reduced to an affordable level. It is a useful approach to ask
beneficiaries to contribute financially to their development, but the AFDCR
should consider the significant lower income level of the Baka and Kola
population. Due to the fact that the Baka and Kola generate only around 30 % of
the average cash income of their "Bantu" neighbors, the PNDP should transfer
this ratio into a subsidized contribution rate for all activities financed by the
AFDCR.
2.   Ongoing training for civil servants and NGOs working with the Baka/Kola
population in intercultural communication should (besides of general training to
increase their organizational and technical capacities) be included into the
curricula of the PNDP component 2 (in those areas with a Baka/Kola population).
Baka and Kola organizations such as ASBAK and CODEBABIK should receive
priority financial conditions as outlined in point 1. A quality management system
(intemational supervision body) as part of the general monitoring and evaluation
system (component 4) should supervise the work of the private and state services
and establish guidelines on best practices in a participatory process with the
affected population.
3.   The Baka and Kola population should be sensitized on the various risks resolving
from the development process in general and the PNDP in particular to make
decisions in full awareness of risks and options. Due to their limited financial
means and the importance to achieve a prior inforned consent this sensitization
should be offered free of charge to them.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       29
Tab. 4: General socio-eonomic impacts and specific impacts for the Baka and Kola of proposed PNDP investment activities
Key: {v//vital to positive impact, //significant positive impact, 'limited positive impact, x limited negative impact, xx significant negative impact
___________ I       General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
Activity       Prsiiiw  Negative I Comment                              Positiv  Negative  Comment
rpd     Impacts                                           Ipact   Impacts I
1.0 Collective public service infrastructure
Ll Education:
Schools/                   x      Positive impact associated with         11        xx     Positive Impact: With the option to create education centers, the youth
Classrooms                        employment creadon for teachers, and for                 could become more integrated in the Camneroonian society and
local construction worker                                 hopefully find employment in the long run.
Positivc impact access to education for                   Negative Impact If the financial conditions, which require a 15%
children, incrase of human capabilities                   contribution of the beneficiaries to the establishment of infrastructure
Negative impact: only children whose parents              and equipment2, is not changed, it can be expected that the Baka/Kola
can afford to send their childmn may benefit              population will not be able to benefit from this activity and end even
fom this, the poor and vulnerable people may              more marginalized in respect to formal education. The nmning costs
be left out unless conscious effonts are taken to        incl. maintenance could also become an additional fuiancial burden for
include them in newly built school system                 the BakalKota population.
Negative Impact: Location of school                       Negative Impact Without the legalization of Baka/Kola settlements, it
(distance to travel) may hinder access to                is likely, that schools will be constructed in the 'Bantu" villages. This
education for certain children, especially the            embodies two negative imnpacts: the long distance to be tracked every
children of nomadic tribes, or cattle herders             day by children along dangerous roads (timber-trucks) and the fact, that
This question can be addressed by creating                according to the informants a joint education system ("Bantu &
mobile schools                                            Pygmy") could increase the 'racism" among "Bantu" children.
Negative impact: unless there is a clear                  Negative impact: The fact that not a single Baka/Kola has been trained
commitment to long term maintenance of                    as teacher increased the stratification between the ethnic groups and
school building, supply of books, teachers,               disfavor the Baka/Kola (Bantu = teacher & Baka/Kola = pupil) in terms
involvement from the communities, the                     of employment
school may become abandoned                               Negative impact: Education might resuh in cultural losses and in the
breakdown of livelihood pattems and lifestyle systems, which are based
on this culture.
The general assessment including the comments does not necessarily reflect the position of this report. They are the findings of the socio and environmental impact
assessment (ERM 2003a 56-58) and will not be conmmented here.
2 The amount of contributions provided by the beneficiaries is outlined in PNDP 2002b: 94-97.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                   30
General population'                                             Baka and Kola population
1.2 Sport and Culture:                                                ___      ___
Grounds for     l         x      Ncgative impact: local elitetrich may            x     Positive impact: Well facilitated, sport and leisure facilities could
sport and                        capture access to sports centres, creating             promote Baka/Kola identity by focusing on traditional "sports" and
leisure                          inequality of distribution                             leisure activities (bow shooting, running, singing, etc.) as well as
Negative impact: may help spread of STDs                increase social interaction between Baka/Kola and "Bantus".
and IIV if measures of prevention are not               Negative impact: It can be expected that no Baka/Kola settlement is
taken into account                                      able to gather money for leisure of sport facilities (expected
Positive impact associated with creation of             contribution from the beneficiaries t5%). Due to that, the
social capital, networks among youth and                marginalization in a sport centered country like Cameroon (soccer)
families                                                might even increase.
Positive health impacts
Rural youth     II        x                                                       x     Positive impact: Well facilitated, youth centers could promote
centres                                                                                 Baka/Kola identity by focusing on Baka/Kola culture and pmvide part-
time training in various fields (income generating activities, etc). Joint
activities could encourage mutual understanding and cultural exchange
between the ethnic groups.
Negative impact: It can be expected that no Baka/Kola settlement is
able to provide the necessary contribution (15%) and it is likely that the
establishment of village infrastructure even increases the
marginalization. The running cost incl. maintenance could become an
l_____________                   ______________________________________  _______         additional financial burden  for the Baka/Kola population.
Community         I       x      Positive impact: this will create an             x     Positive impact: Well facilitated, community centers could promote
centres                          opportunity for community members to                   BakatKola identity by focusing on Baka/Kola culture and provide
assemble, have meeting, focus groups and                training in various fields (income generating activities, etc) including
voice their opinions                                    evening education for adults (alphabetization, etc.) and exchange
Positive impact: promotes participation and             similar to the one described for the youth centers.
group decision-making                                   Negative impact: It can be expected that no Baka/Kola settlement is
Negative impact: may become captured by                 able to provide money to the necessary contribution ( 15%). It is likely,
local elites                                           that those who contribute ("Bantu'l will consider the community centre
as their centrc and not as joint centre of the entire community. The
running cost incl. maintenance could become an additional financial
burden for the BakatKola population.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       31
General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
13 Health, Hygiene and Sanitation:
Health centres   /     -  X       Positive impact: access to prinary health  1.     x      Positive impact: Access to pnmary health care is an important element
care. However, this project should be                    of poverty reduction - but should to be adapted to the particular health
associated with investment in basic                       problems arising from a particular culture and lifestyle. At the moment
diagnostic equipments and supply of                       most Baka and Kola have to travel for several hours or days before they
medicines, as welt as training in preventive             have a chance to see a doctor.
health care for nurses and doctors                       Negative impact: It can be expected that no Baka/Kola settlement is
Negative impact: creation of health centres              able to provide the necessary contribution (15h) with the result that
alone will not solve any health care                      their marginalization in view of village infrastrueure could even
problems                                                  increase. The running cost incL maintenance could also become an
additional fnancial burden for the Baka/Kola population.
Negative impact: The provision of 'modem" medicine could
undermine the traditional knowledge in the area of health (medical
_________  ____    __________________________             ____               plants, traditional techniques and belief systems).
Dispensaries     11        X                                                   I    x
Emergency                  x      Negative: it may be too costly to fund and  /     x
rooms                             implement this project
Also, local doctors may not have enough
initr ng
Maternity       1/         x      Positive: mothers will receive better   *         x
clinics                           maternal health care, only if construction is
also accompanied by provision of needed
medical supplies
Public            4        x      Positive: if medicine is bought wholesale  1/     x
phannacy                          from distributors, this may reduce costs of              Positive impact: While at the moment most medical products are
stores                            medicine, especially for rural areas                     bought from mobile traders, who often provide insufficient (expired,
faked, etc.) und inappropriate drugs, public pharmacy stores like the
GTZ and KfW financed "Pro-Pharmacies" could increase the
effectivencss of medical services.
Negative impact: It can be expected that most Baka and Kola are not
able to pay the full price for the medication, which increases inequality.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       32
General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
Prophylactic     /1        x      Positive impact: may improve well-being of  K     x      Positive impact: On the basis of the low standards of sanitation and
activities                        community members through preventive                     knowledge on health related issues, it can be expected that prophylactic
actions such as using condoms, hygiene,                   activities could significantly improve the health situation.
safe water, proper nutritton for children, etc.           Negative Impact: Most Baka/Kola communities will not be able to
Extensive communication and public                       contribute financially (15%) to these activities and could lead to an
awareness campaigns would be needed.                      increasing inequality in health care.
Negative impact: Health education not carried out in accordance with
the values of the people concerned might result in inappropriate
proceedings and treatment as well as a loss of traditional healing
_______                                                   _______  _________   m ethods.
HIV/AIDS         1/        x      Poorly maintained latrines and water points  KV   x      Positive impact: Especially along the timber roads HIV/AlDS is
control centers                   can lead to serious risks (envirotument and              becoming a serious problem among young Baka women, who generate
health). Good maintenance can have exact                  cash income of their families as prostitutes for truck drivers. HIV/AIDS
the opposite result.                                      information centers, which are free of charge, could inform the
Baka/Kola population about the risks and possible prevention methods.
Negative: Pure control centers do not have any meaning for the rural
l____                                                                       wpopulation.
Latrines and               x      Positive: may reduce distance to travel to  VKV   xx     Positive impact: On the basis of the low standards of sanitation and the
water points                      get water from ponds, rivers, etc. If done               absence of water points, it can be expected that the assistance in latrine
properly, it may bear significant positive                and water point construction could significantly increase the hcalth
health benefits. Measures should be taken                 situation.
the water points and latrines are maintained              Negative Impact: Most Baka/Kola communities will not be able to
properly to ensure water purity and                       contribute financially (15%) or cover the maintenance costs. Water
sanitization.                                             points and latrines only make sense when they are well managed,
which requires a significant amount of capacity building and
backstopping.
Negative impact: The maintenance of water points requires a certain
amount of money per capita or per m3. Due to their limited financial
capacities the Baka/Kola might not be able to be provided them, which
increases the social stratification and/or the dependence on cash income



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       33
General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
1.4 RoadsfTransportation infrastructure:
Roads, niral     .         x      Positive: may increase assess to nearby  11       xx     Positive impact: The access to markets, health facilities, administration
access roads,                     markets, towns, etc, and positively                      and education becomes easier.
water passage                    influence on the economy                                  Negative Impact: Roads open up the forest for exploiters, which
ways (transport                   Negative: may increase migration from                    bypass the BakatKola village
infrastructure)                   nearby towns, spread of discases, etc.                   Negative Impact: Roads increase the HIV/AIDS infection rate,
increase the dependence on cash income and underminc indigenous
culture and knowledge
1.5 Energy/     .(         x      Positive: may bring significant benefits to  "    x      Positive impact Offers in the long run the option to participate in
Communicalion                     local economic development through                       modem live.
creation of jobs, local business                          Negative impact: Increases the dependence on cash income, lead to an
development, provision of electricity and                increased social stratification, loss of indigenous culture and knowledge
means of communication to households,                     and umdermine traditional social system
schools, hospitals, etc.
.____________      120 Public Commercial Equipment
2.1 Economic Development:
Markets                    x      Positivc impact: may bring positive benefits       x      Positive impact The establishment of markets could increase the cash-
through creation of jobs, and sources of                 income from agriculture and improve the living conditions.
income for vendors, traders, etc.                         Negative impact: tncreascs the integration into the cash-economy,
Local farmers and producers may become                    leading to an increased social stratification, loss of indigenous culture
connected to larger markets, if access to                 and knowledge and decrease of traditional social system.
markets is created along with the roads,                  Negative impact: Could lead to a break down of traditional modes of
electricity, etc.                                         exchange.
Negative: may increase crime rates, child                 Negative impact: Increases the pressure on natural resources and could
labour, etc.                                              lead in the long run in the absence of necessary proteins (game) and
vitamins (NTFPs)
Negative impact: Increases the area under agriculture and could result
in land use disputes ("Bantu' using Baka and Kola land for their
plantations) and an increased dependence (forces Baka and Kola to
work for 'Bantu" plantation owners)
Negative impact: It is unlikely that any Baka/Kola village can provide
the necessary 25% contribution.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       34
General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
Storage          11        x      ..                                                x      Positive impact: Provides necessary items at village level.
warehouses                                                                                 Negative impact: Increases the dependence on cash income, which
could lead to an increased social stratification, loss of indigenous
culture and knowledge and decrease of traditional social system.
Negative impact: It is unlikely that any BakatKola village can provide
the necessary 25% contribution.
Bus stations     ,/        x      .                                                 x       Negative impact: It is unlikely, that any Baka/Kola village can
provide the necessary 25% contribution. This could lead to the
exclusion from transport facilities, if buses and bush-taxis are only
I           operating between bus stations
2.2. Livestock                                                                      x      Positive impact Livestock equipment could reduce the pressure on
equipment:                                                                                 primary forest and provide altemative protein sources.
Livestock                                                                                  Negative impact: It is unlikely that any Baka/Kola village could
markets,                                                                                   providc a 25% share of the establishment, maintenance or management
slaughterhouses                                                                            costs.
. slaughter-                                                                               Negative Impact: Animal husbandry requires a permanent lifestyle and
yards, stock-                                                                              could lead to loss of culture and indigenous knowledge among the
yards, tick dip,                                                                           Baka/Kola.
vaccination
yards.
transformation
of
slaughterhouse
wast
2.3. Rural and                                                             v'       xx     Positive impact: On the basis of the low standards of sanitation and the
pastoral water                                                                             absence of water points, it can be expected that the assistance in water
systems: wells,                                                                            point construction could significantly increase the health situation.
boreholes,                                                                                 Negative Impact: Beside of the fact. that most Baka/Kola communities
wetlands,                                                                                  will not be able to contribute financially (5%) or cover the maintenance
reservoirs,                                                -                               costs, water point and latrines only make sense when they are well
micro-dams                                                                                 managed, which requires a significant amount of capacity building and
and storage,                                                                               backstopping.
water                                                                                      Negative impact: The maintenance of water points requires a certain
catchment                                                                                  amount of money per capita or per m3. This could lead to an increased
social stratification and the dependence on cash income.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       35
General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
3.0 Management and exploitation of Natural Resources
3.1 Soil          ''       x      Positive: significant positive impact on  ,(      x      Positive impact Very important topic in view of an increased
Protection and                    social, human and natural capitals                       agriculture. It reduces the pressure to log down primary forest mostly
Restoration:                      Positive: Community management of                        utilized by Baka and Kola for their subsistence and as source of their
Antierrosion                      natural resources may bring about positive               societal system.
interventions,                    benefits in terms of effective management                Negative impact: It is unlikely that Baka/Kola communities are able to
soil fertility                    on NR, promote good local governance and                 contribute 20%A of the costs of these activities.
resoration                        empower local communities, communes
and provinces. Whenever possible,
traditional ways of managing NR should be
incorporated, and communities should be
given NR management rights protected by
legal system. This community based NR
should be incorporated into existing
institutions as well.
One important thing to remember is that the
achievement of sustainable livelihoods is
the goal, and therefore, balanced use of
natural resources should be monitored and
managed by communities who depend on
these resources for their livelihoods.
3.2               /        X      .Irrigation systems will - most probably - not be instaled in the
Exploitation of                                                                            rainforest areas utilized by Baka and Kola.
Water
Resources
3.3              11        X                                              1         xx     Positive iinpact Reforestation and especially support in the
Exploitation of                                                                            elaboration of management plans for community forests will contribute
Forest                                                                                     to the sustainable utilization of rainforests and guarantec the
Resources:                                                                                 subsistence and cultural source of the Baka and Kola population.
Reforestaion                                                                               Negative impact: Even the expected 5% contribution might be too
and wood lots,                                                                             high for the Baka/Kola and could lead to a scenario in which the
supptut to                                                                                 Baka/Kola remain without community forests for Baka/Kola while
elborate simple                                                                            community forests are established for "Bantu" villages. This could lead
smwageman                                                                                  to a loss of control over forest owned and used by the Baka/Kola.
plans for                                                                                  Negative impact: If the BakalKola villages are not supported in their
cou-mnity                                                                                  aim to become independent, it is likely that they will lose contml over
forests                                       _                             _              their land in joint community forests.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                     36
General population'                                              Baka and Kola population
3.4 Area         ,'        x      'ZV                                             xx      Positive impact: The support in conflict management, land use tenure
Improvements                                                                             systems and marketing of pastoral resources will contnbute to the
and                                                                                       sustainable utilization of rainforests and guarantee the subsistence and
Exploitation of                                                                          cultural source of the Baka and Kola population.
Pastoral                                                                                  Negative impact: Even the expected 5% contribution might be too
Resources:                                                                                high for the Baka/Kola villages and might lead to a situation in which
Livestook                                                                                the needs and interests of Baka/Kola villages are not equally
passages,                                                                                represented in the overall tenure systems. This could result in loss of
firebreakes,                                                                              control over land traditionally owned and used by the Baka and Kola.
rangeland                                                                                 Negative impact: If the Baka/Kola villages are not supported in their
improvements,                                                                             aim to become independent, it is likely that they will lose control over
land tenure                                                                              their land.
management
and conflict
resolution       ___
3.5 Protection   11        x      '                                               xx      Positive impact The protection of rainforest biodiversity has a high
and                                                                                       priority for the 'forest people".
Exploitation of                                                                           Positive impact: The legalization of traditional hunting and gathering
Biodiversity:                                                                             areas will be a significant support for the survival of the indigenous
Management of                                                                            livelihood, culture, lifestyle and believe system.
buffer zones,                                                                             Negative impacts: There is a high risks, that the Baka and Kola are not
eco-tourism                                                                               able to participate tn thesc benefits due to the fact that they are
and hunting                                                                               financially not able to contribute 5 % of the costs and/or that they are
areas,                                                                                    not able to act as independent stakeholder (if the settlements are not
Protection and                                                                            certified as independent villages).
transformation                                                                            Negative impact: Ecotourism might lead to enculturation and the
of wastes                                                                                 transformation into exponents as it already happened to the Kola
around Kribi.
Negative impact: Conservation projects in the past have too often
ignored the rights of indigenous people on land and there is the risk that
this practice persists.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                       37
General population'                                               Baka and Kola population
4.0 Beneficial Collective Training (all categories)
4.1 Literacy     IV        x      Awareness raising among beneficiary    V./V       xx     Positive impact- Could provide job opportunities for Baka/Kola in
training,                         communities and training of support                      their village based schools, health centers etc. and reduce some of the
health                            personnel on the approach of PNDP to                     negative impacts (enculturation etc.) outlined under point 1. 1. and 1.3.
personnel,                        addressing their needs is essential                      Positive impact: Carried out in harmony with the social system and
teachers, etc.                                                                             cultural integrity of the Baka/Kola society, these activities can assist the
Baka/Kola to define their position in the Cameroonian society.
Negative impact: Again might even the expected 5 % contribution be
too high for Baka/Kola villages, which might result in an increasing
marginalization.
Negative impact: Education not carried out in accordance with the
values of the people might result in the cultural losses and the
breakdown of livelihood pattems and lifestyle systems.
4.2              V.        x      Community based focus groups, training of  lii    xx     Positive impact: Could provide the skills necessary for Baka/Kola to
Community                        facilitators and community mobilisers by                  be fully integrated into the PNDP and lead to a stage, where they are
participation:                    using participatory approaches such as                   fully involved in decision making at community level.
Community                         Participatory Rural Assessment, score                    Positive impact: Carried out in harmony with the social system and
Leadership                        cards, and household analysis will be                    cultural integrity of the Baka/Kola society, these activities can assist the
training                          extremely beneficial for proper                          Baka/Kola to define their position in the Cameroonian society.
Community                        identification, selection, and                            Negative impact: Again seems the expected 5 % contribution to be too
mobilization                     implementation of micro-projects.                         high for Baka/Kola villages, which might result in an even increasing
focus groups                      When selecting micro-projects,                           marginalization.
Community                         communities should seek to select projects,              Negative impact: Technical and organizational assistancc not carried
decision-                         which would bring long-term benefits to the              out in accordance with the values of the people to be educated might
makig and                         communities and be sustainable overall.                  result in the cultural losses and the breakdown of livelihood patterns
project                           Also the potential benefits for the poor and  l          and lifestyle systems.
planning                          vulnerable groups should be always                       Negative impact: There is a high risk - if the trainers are not sensitized
addressed.                                                and experienced in intercultural communication - that the training etc.
Thus, susmainability and benefits for the                 does not increasc the participation of the Baka/Kola population but
poor and vulnerable groups should be two                  sustains and even increases their marginalization ("attentisme").
major checks for selecting any micro-
____________  ______  _______nroiecL                             ___________________________________________



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  38
4.2    COMPONENT 2: STRENGTHENING OF COUNCILS WITHIN THE DECENTRALIZATION
PROCESS
This component will support the GoC in the elaboration and implementation of a more
structured legal and regulatory framework. More specifically, the PNDP will support the
current fiscal and financial reform process and provide measures to build capacity within
councils, including knowledge of World Bank safeguard issues. A "council graduation
prograrn" will be developed to assess the capacity of various councils as they enroll.
Support will also be provided for the coordination among local administrative, elected and
traditional authorities. Finally, councils will benefit from logistical support, mainly in terms
of transportation and information technology to allow adequate financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, and organize training on the process of decentralization.
The desired objective of strengthening the councils within the decentralization process
is - from the perspective of the Baka and Kola - an important aim, because
decentralized professional councils should respect the dignities, rights and cultural
independent of the Baka and Kola and increasingly involve the entire population living
in the area into decision making processes at council level. Beside of the general risk,
that the double structure of rural administration (appointed divisional officers of the
subdivisions and elected mayors of the councils) camouflage the desired
decentralization by blocking each other, there is a high risk that the Baka and Kola
population might not be able to participate in the expected positive impacts and the
decision making processes at council level and end even more marginalized than today.
The main risks of component 2 are:
1.   that the interests of the Baka and Kola are not considered in the decentralization
process - due to the fact that the Baka/Kola are not represented at council level -,
which would increase their marginalization;
2.   that the strengthening of the capacities of the councils - which are "Bantu" only
organizations - increases the dependence of the Baka and Kola towards ethnic
majorities in their area of living;
3.   that an increase of law enforcement - as a result of a more efficient administration -
undermines the livelihood pattems of the Baka and Kola - which are perceived by the law
as illegal exploitation of state territory - and results in impoverishment and landlessness.
Mitigation measurements:
I.   The recommended assistance to the Baka and Kola in obtaining ID-cards, which would
upgrade them to possible voters, could in the long run reduce risks, that they are
excluded from decision making processes and/or that their interests are not considered
by councils. On the short run, and as additional measurement, the already proposed
sensitization and qualification of civil servants and councilors in intercultural
communication and the installation of a training unit on the rights of indigenous people
(in accordance with the OD 4.20.) into the curriculum offered to civil servants could
serve. An appeal forum at grassroot level in close collaboration with the various
supervision and management bodies and the general M&E unit of the PNDP could
monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of these qualification measurements.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  39
2.   A qualified administration (recommendation 1) together with the already
recommended administrative independence of Baka and Kola settlements will
foster the mitigation of the risk of an increased dependence and even open up the
venue for an increased participation of Baka and Kola in rural administration.
3.   The legalization of land use patterns utilized by the Baka and Kola and the
establishment of community forests for Baka and Kola are key instruments to
guarantee, that the PNDP does not increase but reduces poverty.
4.3   COMPONENT 3: CAPACITY BUILDING AT THE LOCAL LEVEL
This component is aiming at the preparation of Community Development Plans, Local
Level Development Plans, awareness programs and training aimed at the reduction of
poverty and improvement of quality of life in the rural areas. Provisions will be made
for training of: (a) technicians and representatives of communities on community
participation methodologies, (b) representatives of community organizations on project
management and implementation, (c) local administrators, elected and traditional
leaders on their role and functions, and (d) technicians, community leaders and local
administrators on World Bank safeguard issues. Training will also be provided to
community members on financial management, procedures for transparency and
accountability, and project managemen,t. Special attention will be given to gender
balance and representation of vulnerable groups as participants in the training programs.
Specific training and awareness programs will be designed in line with poverty
reduction efforts, and will focus on literacy programs, better nutrition, rural finance, and
support to rural communication.
The overall goal of the capacity building at local level can be seen in an increasing
participation of the rural population in decision making processes on community level.
The main risks for the Baka and Kola results, similar to component 2, from the fact, that
participation in the various training activities is limited to administrators, councilors and
civil servants, since none of them is a Baka or Kola. The fact, that gender balance and
an equal representation of vulnerable groups - under which the Baka and Kola fall - is
already outlined in the implementation plan of the PNDP, could be seen as a first
mitigation measurement. Nevertheless, the fact that steering committees, implementing
bodies, monitoring and evaluation units are - following the outlined composition -
"Bantu"-only bodies, symbolize the risk, that the outlined participation of Baka and
Kola could be limited to a pro-forma participation of selected individuals and would not
guarantee the full participation of the Baka and Kola population. The overall
recommendation to promote and support the certification of independent Baka and Kola
settlements - if this is desired by them - could mitigate the risk of an increasing
marginalization and dependence from community leaders belonging to other ethnic
groups. It seems logic that if village action plans and community development plans are
the main instruments of implementing the various activities outlined in the component
1, it is a top priority to enable Baka and Kola settlements to be certified as communities
and through that, offer them the chance to apply for funding. If- as it is already tested
in the subdivisions of Akom 2, Ma'an and Campo - Kola and Baka are accepted as



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  40
equal administrative partners on community level, it is also easier for the Kola and Baka
association such as ASBAK and CODEBABIK and the various NGOs working with the
Baka and Kola to benefit from the capacity building activities outlined under the
component 3 of the PNDP and assist the independent Baka and Kola settlements to
elaborate village action plans and participate equally in community development plans.
To monitor and evaluate the impacts of these mitigation strategies, an independent
supervising body on the integration of the Baka and Kola in the PNDP process seems to
be more effective, than leaving these important tasks in the hand of the "Bantu"-only
monitoring and evaluation unit of the PNDP.
4.4   COMPONENT 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENTAND MONITORING
Under this component, provisions will be made to support project management,
coordination, and communication and to set up a monitoring and evaluation system.
Without questioning the importance of a centralized monitoring and evaluation unit at
national level, the setting of a centralized monitoring and evaluation unit embody the
risk, that the problems of Baka and Kola to participate equally in the PNDP are
overlooked due to their marginal importance at national level. Another risk could be
related to the fact that no Baka or Kola will be - due to their limited technical skills and
the fact that none of them is a civil servant - a member of these monitoring and
evaluation unit at national level, which might result in an underestimation of the
importance of the dignity, rights and culture of the Baka/Kola population and the need
to assure that they are also benefiting from the PNDP.
The already recommended independent M&E unit solemnly working on the integration
of Baka and Kola could be seen as one mitigation instrument. Nevertheless it seems to
be important to offer qualified Baka and Kola the opportunity to participate in the
national PNDP-M&E meetings and to benefit from permanent employment.
4.5   SUMMARY
To summarize the above developed mitigation instruments, one can conclude that the
PNDP was well advised, when they undertook to carry out the following activities to
fulfill the requirements of the OD 4.20, to guarantee that the PNDP respects the rights,
dignity and culture of the Baka and Kola and offer the indigenous peoples equal or
better opportunities to participate in the benefits offered by the PNDP:
Establish equal legal opportunities
*    Establish equal legal conditions for Baka and Kola individuals (ID-cards);
*    Establish equal legal conditions for Baka and Kola settlements (communities);
*    Establish community forest or traditional hunting zones for Baka and Kola
communities;



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  41
Establish equal technical opportunities
*    Assist the Baka and Kola to establish action plans (local level);
*    Assist the Baka and Kola to participate equally in the elaboration of communal
development plans;
Establish equal rinancial opportunities
*    Offer the Baka and Kola AFDCR financed projects at a subsidized rate;
*    Offer special programs for Baka and Kola to benefit from job creating opportunities
within the PNDP program (teachers, health personal, civil servant etc);
Establish equal organizational opportunities
*    Assist the Baka and Kola in decision making processes;
*    Provide training on intercultural communication to civil servants and councilors
working in subdivisions with Baka and Kola population;
*    Assist the Baka and Kola to establish independent bodies at the various levels to
coordinate, communicate and facilitate the above stated activities;
*    Include representatives of the Baka and Kola in the various PNDP committees;
*    Establish a participatory monitoring and evaluation system for the IPDP of the PNDP.
Establish equal cultural opportunities
*    Sensitize the Baka and Kola on the risks of the development process;
*    Assist the Baka and Kola association in capacity building to preserve the loss of
traditional knowledge, culture'and livelihood patterns.
*    Foster the creation of forums for communication and exchange between
Baka/Kola and other ethnical groups and accompany this process of mutual
understanding.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  42
5      INDIGENOUS PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT PLAN OF THE PNDP
This chapter outlines the draft indigenous people development plan (IPDP) for the
PNDP, which was adapted by the PNDP as official implementation document. The
IPDP could be redefined during the course of its implementation and further
consultation with all stakeholders. Similar to the PNDP as such, the IPDP embodies a
pilot phase (1-12/2004) in which the IPDP should be presented and discussed in all
Baka, Kola and Aka settlements on the basis of their specific experiences, interests and
problems. This open and well facilitated discussion process, which goes along with the
elaboration of the IPDP implementing and supervising body will contribute to the
participatory elaboration of the final IPDP, which is scheduled for 12/2004. Table 6
develops actions, responsibilities, time schedules and costs of the IPDP and figure 2
describes a possible structure of its implementation. To monitor and evaluate the
impacts of the IPDP, draft impact indicators are elaborated, which should be redefined
as one of the first activities of the proposed participatory impact monitoring.
The IPDP has been prepared - as outlined in the introduction - on the basis of the best
practice - documented in the OD 4.20 - to assure that the PNDP and its actors will
respect the dignity, rights and culture of the Baka and Kola population in Cameroon and
assure that they are also benefiting from the PNDP. As documented in chapter two, this
IPDP does only cover possible negative impacts towards the Baka and Kola population
and assumes that the third "pygmy"-group in Cameroon (Aka) are facing similar risks.
Due to their limited territory, the need to mitigate negative impacts and assure equal
participation does only arise in certain areas. Due to the fact that no detailed data on the
Baka, Kola and Aka population are available on sub-divisional/council level, the data
provided in table 5 should be considered as first estimate. Due to the uncertain database,
not all subdivisions might be used by Baka, Kola or Aka for their livelihood and there is
also the chance that my informants missed some groups living in other areas than those
outlined here. During the baseline study for the monitoring and evaluation system of the
IPDP, the extent and magnitude of Baka, Kola and Aka population in the different
divisions and subdivisions have to be clarified.
Province           Division          Subdivision        "Pygmy" group
Centre             Nyong-et-Kelle    Messondo           Kola
Centre             Nyong-et-Kelle    Ps6ka              Kola
Centre             Nyong-et-Kelle    Makak              Kola
South              Ocean             Kribi              Kola
South              Oc6an             Bipindi            Kola
South              Ocean             Lolodorf           Kola
South              Ocean             Mvengue            Kola
South              Ocean             Akom 2             Kola
South              Ocean             Nye'ete            Kola
South              Ocean             Campo              Kola
South              Vall&e-du-Ntem    Ma'an              Kola
South              Vall&e-du-Ntem    Ambam              Kola
South              Vall&e-du-Ntem    Olamze             Kola



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Camieroon - Final Report (June 2003)  43
South              Mvilla              Biwong-Bane       Kola
South              Mvilla             Mvangan            Baka
South              Dja-et-Lobo        Bengbis            Baka
South              Dja-et-Lobo        Sangmelima         Baka
South              Dja-et-Lobo        Oveng              Baka
South              Dia-et-Lobo        Meyomessala         Baka
South              Dja-et-Lobo        Dioum              Baka
South              Dja-et-Lobo        Mintom 2           Baka
East               Haut-Nyong         Messamrna          Baka
East               Haut-Nyong         Somalomo           Baka
East               Haut-Nyong         Dja                Baka
East               Haut-Nyong         Lomi6              Baka
East               Haut-Nyong         Messok             Baka
East               Haut-Nyong         Ngoila             Baka
East               Kadei              Mbang              Baka
East               Kadei              Nd6le16            Baka & Aka
East               Boumba-et-Ngoko    Gari-Gombo         Baka & Aka
East               Boumba-et-Ngoko    Yokadouma          Baka & Aka
East               Boumba-et-Ngoko    Salapoumb6         Baka & Aka
East               Boumba-et-Ngoko    Moloundou          Baka & Aka.
Tab. 5: Area of intervention: sub-divisions and councils with an expected Baka, Kola or Aka population
For the draft IPDP it is assumed that the total number of project affected people (the IP
= indigenous people = Baka, Kola and Aka) is 30,000, which are assembled in 300
settlements in the 33 subdivisions of the three provinces mentioned above. On the basis
of the results of activity I and 6, which will establish baseline data on the Baka, Kola
and Aka population, the IPDP will be concretized and redefined.
The main actors of this IPDP are the PNDP in MINEPAT, the sub-department of
marginalized population in MINAS, the MINAT, national and international NGOs, the
associations of the indigenous people (Baka, Kola and Aka) and the Baka, Kola and
Aka themselves. At the present level none of the primary stakeholders seems able -
even in their own perception - to implement an IPDP in accordance with the OD 4.20,
without further training and the assistance on an international supervising body. It is
documented that MINEPAT, MINAS, NGOs, indigenous people associations, civil
servants at the various levels and "Bantu" councilors are willing to act in accordance
with the documented best practice of interaction with indigenous people - the OD 4.20.
-, but that they are in dare need of training to increase their organizational, technical
(esp. in the area of intercultural communication) and financial competences to achieve a
harmonic cooperation in the process of PNDP implementation. While it is normally not
necessary to provide funding for civil servants to carry out their duties (for example to
assist the IP to receive identity cards to become legalized citizens) and/or to be trained
on elementary issues - such as intercultural communication -, the financial crisis in
Cameroon and the fact that the governmental agency in charge of the indigenous people
does not even have its own budget, makes it necessary to provide financial means for
these activities.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                              44
Table 6: Indigenous people development plan: key issues and actions
Issue                   Activity                        Responsibility   By When            Cost             Indicators
Capacity building on OD   Training for relevant GoC staff,  Consultant   Until 12/2004      USD 20k'           The beneficiaries ofiteis
4.20 and IPDPs          NGOs and IP associations d                                                            tbaining are abie to implement
the IPDP of the PNPD
Establish equal legal opportunities
1. Establish equal legal  Sensitization of all stakeholders  MINAS       Until 12/2004      USD   10k          Reports of discrimination are
conditions  for  IPs:                                                                                        reducing
Provide  ID-cards to *  Census                        MINAS & NGOs     Until 3/2005       USD   I Ok          Database is available and
the IPs                                                                                                       communicated to IPs
a   Providing ID-cards at a      MINAT            Until 6/2005       USD 150k PNDP   a   More than 90 % of the IPs
subsidized rate                                                   USD 150kMINAT      have ID-cards
2. Establish equal legal  a  Sensitization of all stakeholders  See I    See I              See I            See I
conditions for IP    a  Organize constitutional meetings  IP Associations  Until 12/2004  USD 10k         *   No complaints about unfair
settlements: certifying  in all communities and install                                                       elections/ results are available
IP villages and         common initiative groups
settlements as       a  Certification process         PNDP             Pilot councils until                   All IP communities have
communities                                                            12/2004                                common initiative groups
Others until
12/2007
3. Establish community  *  Sensitization of all stakeholders  See I      See I              See I            See I
forests and traditional  a  Inventory, demarcation and  MINEF & NGOs   Pilot councils until  USD 900k2        The data are available and
hunting/gathering       establishment of management                    6/2005 Others until                    accessible through a GIS
areas for IP            plans                                          12/2007
communities          *  The community forest and/or   MINEF            Pilot councils until               0   The income from natural
traditional hunting and                        9/2005                                resource marketing is
gathering areas are certified                  Others until 6/2008                   increasing and the degradation
of biodiversity in the
community forest is reducing.
k = USD 1,000
2 Is is estimated that that the elaboration of the documents, which are required to apply for the establishment of a community forest, costs for each village at least USD 3k.
This activity has been started in some of the PNDP pilot councils, with IP population, but according to the implementing agency (SNV) its financing (GEF) is not clear. Due
to that the entire activity for all settlements is budgeted here (2004 = 40 senlements, 2005 = 60, 2006 = 100, 2007 = 100).



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                            45
Table 6: Indigenous eeople development plan: ky issues and acdons
Issue                  Activity                      I Responsibility  | By When         Cost            IIntdicato
Establish equal techni al opportunities
4. Assist the  IP to      Provide training to service  MINEPAT         Until 6/2004      USD 10k PNDP
establish action plans  provider (SP)                                                   USD 10k, SP
(local level)           Elaborate action plans (local  Service provider  10 in 2004     USD855k PNDP'   At least 50 % of the action plans
level)                      (NGOs, IP         50 in 2005        USD 45k IP-      (local level) receive funding
associations,    60 p.a. between   villages
consultants etc.)  2006 and 2009
5. Assist the  IP to      Sensitization of all stakeholders  See I     See I             See I            See I
participate equally in  Facilitate IP participation in  MINEPAT &    Ongoing                            There are no reports on
the  elaboration  of    decision making processes    MINAS                                              discrimination
communal development    Guarantee the representation of  MINEPAT     Ongoing                            There are no reports on
plans;                 IPs in PNDP structures at                                                        discrimination
communal level                                                                       .-
Establish equal financial opportunities
6. Offer the IPs AFDCR  a  Establish baseline data    MINAS &          Until 6/04 (should  USD 10k        The database is available and is
financed projects at a                              NGOs             be coordinated                     used by the PNDP
subsidized rate (1/3 of                                              with activity 1.2)
the normal rates)   .   Provide funds                MINEPAT         Ongoing            USD 48k2
7. Offer special programs  Establish baseline data, training  MINAS    Until 6/2004      USD 10k
for IP to benefit from  needs and employment
the jobs creating       opportunities
within the PNDP     *   Provide scholarship          MINAS           Starting in 7/04   USD 600k'       An increasing number of schools
program (teachers &                                                  ongoing                            and health centres in IP villages
health personal);                                                                      I                employ IP personal
1 It is assumed that the elaboration of a single village action plan costs USD 3k of which the PNDP finances 95 % and the village 5 %.
2 It is assumed that 80 % of the USD 120,000k are used for AFDCR (ERM 2003a). It is assumed that the IPs (30,000) constitute around 0.5% of the nrual population (50% of
the 12 Mill. Camneroonians). If the PNDP money is provided according to the per head distribution, the AP population would apply for project funding of- USD 480k The
IfPs are - as all bodies applying for ADDCR funding - expected to contribute between 5 and 25% = - 72 k (15 %). According to the recommendation of the IPDP should [P
villages receive funding at subsidised prices (at 33 % of the normal contributing). This would mean that the IP villages contribute 24 k (or 5 % of the expected project value
of 480 k) and the PNDP 48 k. For the budgeting it is presumed that from 2004 8 k should be provided p.a., which would result in a temination of this activity in 2009. If the
PNPD is fulfilling expectation, it could be expected that by 2009, the IP villages do no longer need these subsidies.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                              46
Table 6: Indigenous people development plan: key issues and actions
Issue                   Activity                      I Responsibility   By When           | Cost           | Indicator
Establish equal organiza ional opportunities
8. Assist the   IP  in    Provide training              MINAS, NGOs,     Starting in 1/2004  USD 100k2       An increasing number of IP hold
decision     making                                   IP Association   Ongoing                             decision making positions
processes.
9. Provide training  in   Provide training              MINAS, NGOs      Starting 1/2004    USD 50k3         Reports on discrimination are
intercultural commimiica-                                              Ongoing                             reducing
tion to civil servants and                                                                                 An increasing number of IP hold
councilors working in                                                                                      positions on council level
subdivisions with IP
population. 
10. Assist the IPs to     Sensitization of the IP      IP Association &  Until 6/04         USD 10k
establish independent                                 MINAS
bodies at the various   Facilitate the election of                                                         Representatives are perceived as
levels to coordinate,   representatives                                                                    qualified and elected spokespeople
communicate and         Facilitate the establishment of  MINAS, IP     Council level until                 The committees are utilized by
facilitate the above    committees (33 at council level,  Association,  9/04                               the IP as representatives
stated activities.      2 at provincial level (centre &  national and  Provincial &
south = I) and one at national  intemational   national level
level                         NGOs             12/04
11. Include               Sensitization of all stakeholders  See I       See I              See I            See I
representatives of the  Election of representatives   See 10.2         See 10.2           See 10.2         See 10.2
IP in the various       Provide places for IP in all  MINEPAT          As soon as bodies                   IP representatives are playing an
PNDP committees;        relevant PNDP-committees                       are formed                          increasingly active role, which
results in a high satisfaction with
the PNDP among the IP
population
The PNDP should provide each year funding for 30 teachers and 30 health personal. A scholarship is estimated with USD I k per person = 60 k p.a. The training
should last for ten years to provide one teacher and one health personal for each of the 300 AP villages.
2 1 Ok p.a. for a 10 year period.
3 5 k p.a. (- USD 150 per subdivision p.a.) for a 10 year period.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                              47
Table 6: Indigenous people development plan: key issues and actions
Issue                   Activity                        Responsibility   By When            Cost             Indicators
12. Establish a       a   Sensitization of the IP      See 10            See 10             See 10
participatory impact  *  Training on methodology,     Consultant       Between 1/05 and   USD 10k          The database is accessible and
monitoring (PIM) for    quantitative research and                      4/05                                perceived by the PNDP M&E as
the IPDP of the PNDP    database management                                                                useful instrument
Carry out the PIM             Committees       Starting 6/05      USD 360 k'       The PIM reports are used for
outlined in 10   ongoing                             fine-tuning and document a
poverty reduction rate of IP
villages equal or higher than the
national average
*   Carry out an evaluation of the  Consultants   Starting 9/05      USD 100 k2
IPDP once in two years
Establish equal cultural opportunities
13. Sensitize the [P on a  Sensitization of the IP  Scc 10         See 10             See 10                   See 10
the  risks  of  the
development process.
14. Assist the IP     a   Provide training to     MINAS, NGOs      Until 3/2004       USD 15k                  The [P associations are
association in capacity  increase organizational,                                                            perceived as representatives of
building to preserve    technical and finical                                                                the [P population and
the loss of traditional  capacities of IP                                                                    becoming increasingly active
knowledge, culture       Associations                                                                        on all levels (PNDP,
and livelihood patterns .  Carry out sensitization  IP Associations  Starting 1/2004  USD 300k3              corrmittees, national politics)
campaigns in IP villages                 Ongoing
1 The costs of the PIM are estimated to be USD 1k p.a. per committee = 36 k p.a. and is estimated to be necessary at least for 10 years.
2 The costs are estimated on the premises that a single evaluation costs will cost around 20 k (2 consultants, I PNDP and onc IPDP representative) and that the there
will be evaluations in 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013.
3 It is estimated that the [P associations should visit each village twice a year and that each of the 600 visits will cost around USD 50 = 30 k p.a.. The sensitisation
should continue for at least 10 years.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                           48
Table 6: Indigenous people development plan: key issues and actions
Issue                  Activity                      I Responsibili  I By When          | Cost          i Indicators
15. Foster the creation of a  Sensitization of the IPs  MINAS    Until 6/2004      5 k                     The PIM and other report
forums for              and other people living                                                           document an increasing
communication and      in the region                                                                      cooperation between the IP
exchange between    *   Facilitate the creation of  MINAS      -Until 12/2004     5 k                     and their neighbors in view of
Baka/Kola and other    forums                                                                             joint activities in the direction
ethnical groups and     Facilitate discussions and  MINAS      Ongoing                                    of poverty reduction and
accompany this          exchange visits                                                                   strengthening the multicultural
process of mutual                                                                                         society
understanding.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)      49
Activity  2004   2005    2006     2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014  2015    Total
0   20.000      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0     0    20.000
190.000    80.000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    0    170.000
2   10.000      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0     0    10.000
3 120.000 180.000 300.000 300.000       0       0       0       0        0       0      0     0   900.000
4   38.500  142.500 171.000 171.000 171.000 171.000     0        0       0       0      0     0   865.000
5       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0      0     0        0
6   18.000   8.000   8.000   8.000   8.000   8.000      0       0       0        0      0     0    58.000
7   70.000  60.000  60.000  60.000  60.000  60.000  60.000  60.000  60.000  60.000      0     0   610.000
8   10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000  10.000      0     0   100.000
9    5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.000      0     0    50.000
10  10.000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    0     10.000
11       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    0         0
12       0  66.000  36.000   56.000  36.000  56.000  36.000  56.000  36.000  56.000 36.000    0    470.000
13       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    0         0
14  45.000  30.000  30.000   30.000  30.000  30.000  30.000  30.000  30.000  30.000      0    0    315.000
15  10.000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    0     10.000
Subtotal  446.500 581.500 620.000 640.000 320.000 340.000 141.000 161.000 141.000 161.000 36.000   0 3.588.000
PNDP              .                                                                                          __
MINAT   150.000       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0     0    150.000
IP        1.500   7.500   9.000   9.000   9.000   9.000       0       0       0       0      0     0    45.000
villages                                                        I
SP       10.000       0      .0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0     0     10.000
Subtotal  162.500  7.500  9.000   9.000   9.000   9.000       0       0       0       0      0     0    206.000
others                         I_I                                                                   I
Total   609.000 589.000 629.000 649.000 329.000 349.000 141.000 161.000 141.000 161.000 36.000     0 3.794.000
Tab.7: The distribution of funds towards the different activities



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                           50
Figure 2        Description of the various implementation steps of the IPDP of the PNDP
.Vational            PNDP administration                                    Line agencies                      IPDP structure             Legend
National Committee IPDP
I MINEPAT/ I MINAS/ I
mitenational NGO/ I        --      Send representatives
national NGO (RACOPY)I 2
AP Association (ASBAC +
*eelNZAs!|! dIn  tPD          o   >CODEBABIK)4 4                                           Drcavising
-          N       t      _                                ________armxentifo=-- A         representatives (I from
South/Centre 3 from East)
n _ \ * I i _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Send elected 
_ ^=|t_ \ L .....~~~~~~~~............                 .    ....... .. . ... ............... .! .,_ ..... ..___. \................... .... .............. .....  repTcsentatives
----------           ------     ~--
. _ .1 \-.-...,.,._        --D i -lniern.isonal suptstis 6 bds
-------------------------------   _                 ------------------------                     ---------------         ---__-_-_--_-_--_-_._ _  _   _ _  _._  _   I  N=E I P D _H_D
Provrince                                                                                                                                    r .
RroyinaS(Iommirte  of - ~ proval           l~ropin-ci .legs on          Provincial Committee
........ ,"Cl,.,S                    I PNDP/ I MINAS/2NGO/
4 AP Associations
----------------               ----------------------------------                         t .....      ....-..-.....------------------------------
Division
Subdivision  ~   nrffiJmani;wn ii       ]m .tl                                                                         Council committee
IcounciI                                                                                                     I MINAS" I councilor/ I representative
~~~~~~~~~~...................... ... .'..> ....                                        Subdivisiom#INGOI4APAssociation
8  ]IQ lB o   8  l l a O   8   *   --------  ------------  ---- --------------  ------------------------------------------------------------
Village                                                       Village'dev lopment ommittee                        Village Committee
AP Organization
Population



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  51
Due to the fact, that the establishment of the implementation structure of the IPDP
outlined in figure 2 will take time, the activities outlined in table 6 should be organized
in the pilot phase of the IPDP (1-12/2004) by an ad-hoc IPDP committee. The ad-hoc
committee should be composed as such: I representative of the PNDP (Coordinator), I
representative  of MINAS   (Sub-department of marginalized  populations),  I
representative of international NGOs (which is already working with Baka, Kola and
Aka in Cameroon and prepared to provide its own funding for working in this
committee - if there are more than one NGO interested to participate, they should form
a network similar to the national network of NGOs RACOPY), 1 representative of
national NGOs (RACOPY), I CODEBABIK representative, 2 ASBAK representatives.
During the pilot phase, the main focus will be on the establishment of the institutional
framework, the sensitization of all stakeholders in general and the affected population in
particular, the gathering of baseline data and the testing of more detailed activities in the
pilot councils of the PNDP. During the establishment of the various committees
(council, provincial and national level), which will involve all Baka, Kola and Aka
settlements, the IPDP should be discussed in detail. Towards the end of 2004, when the
IPDP committees at council level will be established, the IPDP should be redefined in a
participatory process of all stakeholders to have a final version available in 12/2004.
The implementation of the participatory impact monitoring at council level will be
another important element to assist the various structures in the implementation of the
activities outlined in table 4. The result of the informnation gathered by the different
committees should be synthesized and made available to all stakeholders and the
interested public on an annual basis, starting from 2005. These reports will be used by
the international supervision body, which will hold annual meetings, for their bi-annual
evaluation of the IPDP process.
In general, it can be presumed that the 15 activities outlined in table 4, with a financial
volume of USD 3.6 Mill (- 2.5 % of the overall PNDP budget), are able to guarantee
that the PNDP is executed in accordance with the OD 4.20 and that
*    the PNDP strengthen traditional systems of governance and embrace the notion of
community dialogue and traditional chiefdoms for all ethnic groups;
*    the PNDP reduces poverty for all ethnic groups and lower the dependence on and
degradation of natural resources and encourage conservation;
*    the PNDP places rural roads and associated services to enable a more sustainable
agricultural systems and timely evacuation of agricultural production;
*    the PNDP installs an effective management system of the natural habitats, which
offers positive impacts to the entire population and the biodiversity;
*    the PNDP increases the quality of social infrastructure (schools, health centres,
sport, leisure facilities, markets, etc.) and promotes sustainable rural development;
*    the PNDP respects the dignity, rights and culture of the Baka, Kola and Aka;
*    the PNDP assures that the Baka, Kola and Aka receive an equal or higher benefit
from the PNDP than other ethnic groups;
*    that the PNDP assists the Baka, Kola and Aka to increase their legal, political,
societal, economical, cultural and psychological situations.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  52
Annex
1.    Terms of reference                                                    53
2.    The different national programmes and their relevance for the Cameroonian
national strategy of poverty reduction (DSRP)                         60
3     Itinerary                                                             68
4     Bibliography                                                          73
5     Maps                                                                  78
6     Memorandum sur l'allegement des procedures de delivrance des pieces
officielles aux populations Pygmees                                   81
7     Abbreviations and dictionary                                          89
8     Workshop Report                                                       96
9     French Version of the IPDP adopted by the PNDP                        101



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)             53
Annex I
Terms of reference



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  54
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE DEVELOPPEMENT PARTICIPATIF (PNDP)
PLAN DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES PEUPLES PYGMEES: PDPP
Termes de Reference
1. CONTEXTE ET JUSTIFICATION
A. Cadre strategiaue
Dans son engagement A sensiblement reduire la pauvrete, le Gouvernement elabore depuis
janvier 2000 suivant un processus participatif faisant intervenir toutes les forces vives, notamment les
couches les plus defavoris&es de la population, un Document de Strategie de Reduction de la Pauvrete
(DSRP). Ce document va constituer le cadre de reference qui definit l'ensemble des strategies
sectorielles, programmes et projets A mettre en oeuvre par le Gouvernement dans le cadre de son
programme economique dit de deuxieme generation axe sur la reduction de la pauvrete, la croissance
et la bonne gouvernance. La mise en place de cette strategie de reduction de la pauvrete sera en partie
facilitee par le PNDP dont l'objectif est d'assister le Gouvernement dans une optique de reduction de
la pauvrete et de developpement durable des zones rurales.
B. Description sommaire du PNDP
Le PNDP est un programme camerounais multi-bailleurs permettant d'assister le
Gouvernement Camerounais, dans une optique de reduction de la pauvrete et de developpement
durable des zones rurales, A definir et mettre en cauvre des mecanismes visant A responsabiliser les
communautes rurales et les collectivites locales decentralisees, afin de les rendre acteurs de leur propre
developpement, ceci dans le cadre du processus progressif de decentralisation. C'est un programme en
trois phases dont la premiere initiera les activites dans certaines zones du pays (provinces du Nord, du
Centre et de l'Ouest et communes de Campo, Ma'an et Akom II dans ia province du Sud), permettra
d'affiner l'approche et les methodes d'intervention, et projettera sur les deuxieme et troisieme phases
successives. Le programme est constitue de quatre composantes:
-  Composante    1:  Un   Appul   fInancier  au  Developpement   des  Communautes
Rurales(AFDCR) qui aura pour objectif d'apporter des subventions en complement des
contributions des beneficiaires (en numeraire, en nature ou en travail) pour la mise en cmuvre
de micro-projets ou activites inities par les beneficiaires (villages, quartiers, communes,
groupements etc.) afin de contribuer a la reduction de la pauvrete. Les micro-projets entrant
dans le cadre des activites financees par le PNDP et d6coulant d'un diagnostic et d'une
analyse participative decentralisee pourront porter sur : (i) les projets de construction /
rehabilitation d'infrastructures sociales, (ii) les projets A caractere public marchand, (iii) les
activites de gestion durable de l'environnement et de la biodiversite.
-  Composante 2: L'appui aux communes dans le cadre du processus progressif de
decentralisation qui couvrira les aspects de (i) gestion des ressources humaines, (ii)
disponibilite des moyens materiels, (iii) gestion financiere, (iv) renforcement des capacites en
maitrise d'ouvrage et (v) partenariats.
-  Composante 3 : Le renforcement des capacit6s au niveau des communautis. Cette
composante vise l'amelioration des connaissances et des aptitudes des acteurs de
developpement et des populations rurales A s'impliquer de fa$on concertee aux efforts de
r6duction de la pauvrete. Les activites pourront se regrouper en activites prealables A
l'elaboration des Plans de Developpement Locaux, et A des campagnes de sensibilisation /



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  55
formation visant A modifier les comportements des populations pour une meilleure qualite de
vie.
- Composante 4: Le suivi Evaluation. La composante suivi-evaluation du PNDP comprend: (i)
le suivi-evaluation technique (performance et impact) et financier des activites financees par le
Programme, (ii) la gestion de la connaissance dans le cadre du Programme, ce en liaison avec
le suivi du secteur du developpement rural et (iii) I'aide a la decision pour 1'6valuation des
micro-projets.
La mise en ceuvre du PNDP va aboutir au financement d'investissements et une restructuration
du milieu rural, ce qui peut avoir un impact sur les populations pygmees. C'est pourquoi une etude
(Plan de developpement des peuples pygmees : PDPP) sur la situation initiale des pygmees, sur
l'impact potentiel du programme et sur les mesures d'accompagnement A prevoir s'avere necessaire.
II. OBJECTIFS DE L'ETUDE
Une evaluation sociale et environnementale prospective du PNDP est en cours. Compte tenu
de l'existence d'impacts potentiels du programme sur les peuples pygmees, cette etude doit etre
completee par un Plan de Developpement des Peuples Pygmees (PDPP). L'objectif general du PDPP
est d'assurer que le processus de developpement favorise le respect total de la dignite, les droits de la
personne et la culture des << peuples autochtones )>, c'est-A-dire des populations pygmees
Camerounaises.
Pour atteindre cet objectif, le PDPP permettra d'assurer que les peuples pygmees ne sont pas
desavantages, qu'ils sont inclus dans le programme et en beneficient comme il convient.
Dans cette optique, le PDPP devra:
*   Caracteriser les peuples pygmees concemrs;
*   Inclure une consultation probante des groupes concemrs et culturellement appropriee;
*   Definir des mecanismes permettant: (i) aux peuples pygmnes d'exprimer leurs vues sur la
conception et la mise en c:uvre du programme ainsi qu'en tant que beneficiaires possibles
du PNDP (participation informee) en tenant compte de l'inclusion des representants des
deux sexes et de toutes les generations, (ii) d'eviter, sinon de minimiser, ou d'attenuer
dans la mesure du possible les impacts negatifs A leur endroit ; et (iii) d'assurer que des
benefices culturellement appropries ont ete prevus pour les peuples pygmees.
L'etude devra etre conforme aux politiques de sauvegarde des bailleurs, notamment A la
Directive Operationnelle OD 4.20 < Peuples Indigenes )> qui complete les prEsents termes de reference.
Elle devra egalement se baser sur les enseignements des projets et programmes existants ayant un
impact sur les pygmees. Enfin, elle devra se baser sur les propositions de l'evaluation sociale et
environnementale prospective, pour decliner ses propositions en fonction des specificites des pygmees.
III. RESULTATS ATTENDUS
Realisation d'un brefdiagnostic. ce diagnostic doit rester leger. 11 vise a decrire le contexte et les
caracteristiques generales des populations concernees et ne devra pas representer plus de 20 a 25% du
travail/rapport final.
- Caracterisation des populations concernees : (i) donnees (repartition geographique avec carte,
differents groupes, situation socio-economique, niveau de population, acces aux services de
sante et education, etc.) sur les populations pygmees concernees par le projet, (ii) structure
sociale et politique, (iii) ressources utilisees et sources de revenus (iv) relations entre les
populations pygmees et les autres groupes locaux et nationaux, (v) valeurs socio-culturelles,



lndigcnous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  56
(vi) organisations locales representatives, (vii) experience en matiere de developpement
communautaire;
Examen du cadre legal: (i) evaluation des droits et du statut legal des groupes pygmees dans
le dispositif juridique national (constitution, lois, reglements, actes administratifs, etc.), (ii)
examen des capacites des peuples pygmees A d6fendre leurs droits;
Les economies, identites et formes d'organisation sociale des peuples pygmees sont souvent
etroitement liees A la terre, A l'eau et A d'autres ressources naturelles (foret, faune, etc.). Dans le
but de determiner les mesures qui pourraient s'averer necessaires pour mieux assurer leur
securite d'acces A leurs terres et autres ressources et d'eviter ou de minimiser les impacts
negatifs, les consultants devront analyser: (i) les valeurs culturelles, religieuses et sacrees que
ces groupes accordent A leurs terres et A leurs ressources ; (ii) les droits et revendications
individuels, communautaires et collectifs de ces groupes pour utiliser / garder les terres qu'ils
occupent et pour les proteger contre 1'empietement; (iii) les usages traditionnels des ressources
naturelles essentiels a leur culture et a leur mode de vie et les leurs lois coutumieres et
mecanismes de gestion des ressources ; (iv) les pratiques de gestion de leurs ressources
naturelles et la durabilite A long terme de ces pratiques;
Justification de la necessite de la prise en compte des populations pygmees: situation de
vulnerabilite/fragilite; rBle de dependance socio-economique; situation concernant l'tat de
sante; le niveau d'education et l'acces aux services de ces populations, vis-a-vis de leurs
voisins non-pygmees;
Analyse des autres projets et programmes existants ayant un impact sur les pygmees,
methodologies d'approche, resultats obtenus et lecons tirees.
Evaluation des impacts et proposition de mesures d'attenuation et de compensation:
faire l'inventaire et la description des impacts du programme et des micro-projets sur les
populations pygmees, que ce soit des micro-projets susceptibles d'etre demandes par elles ou
par d'autres groupes voisins. On apportera une attention particuliere aux conflits possibles,
notamment les conflits fonciers, resultant du programme et des micro-projets. De plus, les
directives operationnelles de la Banque mondiale (sur les populations pygmees et le
((deplacement involontaire >) mettent des barrieres fortes au deplacement involontaire
de populations pygmees. Les consultants chercheront A s'assurer que les mesures
induites par le programme ne vont pas induire de facto l'exclusion des pygmees des
territoires qu'ils utilisent;
A partir des experiences anterieures, faire l'evaluation de ces impacts selon les criteres de
sauvegarde sociaux et environnementaux nationaux et des bailleurs. Ceci sera fait A court,
moyen et long terme et en mettant en evidence les effets positifs et negatifs et les effets
cumulatifs;
examiner les alternatives et prevoir des mesures d'accompagnement possibles (y compris
mecanismes de gestion dcs conflits et sensibilisation I information / consultation / participation
des populations) afin d'eviter, d'attenuer et de compenser les effets negatifs ou de renforcer
les effets positifs du programme et des micro-projets (sans pour autant creer de conflits avec
les autres populations). On procedera A une evaluation chiffree du coat des mesures
preconisees qui devra etre inclus dans le couit total des micro-projets;
Les micro-projets seront classes suivant leur degre/type d'impact et le besoin et la nature des
evaluations sociales et mesures d'accompagnement A prevoir.
Proposition de mecanismes appropries (en tenant compte de l'articulation de ces mecanismes avec les
propositions de I 'evaluation sociale et environnementale prospective):
Propositions de mecanismes pour assurer la participation informre des populations pygmees
dans la preparation des plans de developpement locaux et dans le cycle des micro-projets (cn
tenant compte d'une representation adaptee des sexes et des generations) et la prise en compte
de leurs langues, pratiques culturelles, croyances religieuses et modes de vie. Reconmuander
en particulier des methodes de information/consultation/negociation culturellement



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  57
appropriees qui permettent aux peuples pygm6es de b6neficier du programme ; d'etre informes
sur les impacts potentiels de tels projets sur leurs moyens de subsistance, leur environnement
et leur usage des ressources naturelles ; d'exprimer leurs vues et leurs preferences ; d'etre
impliquees dans les decisions et de defendre leurs droits;
-  La faible capacite des pygmres A revendiquer leurs droits de controler et garder les terres
qu'ils occupent pourra etre identifiee comme une contrainte pour un etablir un climat de
confiance necessaire pour qu'ils participent au programme et en ben6ficient. Si tel est le cas, le
consultant devra suggerer des mesures pour renforcer la s6curite fonciere de ces populations;
- Proposition de mecanismes pour eviter, sinon minimiser, ou attenuer dans la mesure du
possible les impacts negatifs A leur endroit et renforcer les benefices culturellement appropri6s
pour les peuples pygmees. L'examen prealable des impacts sur les pygmees et l'examen du
respect des Politiques de sauvegarde des bailleurs devront etre systematiques et faire partie
integrante des procedures et criteres de selection, d'examen et d'approbation des micro-
projets;
-  Suivi evaluation: Proposition de (i) mecanismes d'evaluation conjointe (par les pygmees et les
autres groupes affectes par le programme) de la mise en cuvre des mecanismes dcfinis ci-
dessus et des impacts, pour faciliter une vision partagee sur les evolutions existantes et
souhaitables et s'assurer que les vues des pygmees sont pleinement prises en comptc; (ii)
indicateurs (types, frequence) permettant de mesurer les progres r6guli6rement, (iii)
responsabilites et besoins en competences pour conduire le suivi-cvaluation;
- Identifier clairement les responsabilites, proposer des arrangements institutionnels et evaluer
les capacites pour l'ensemble des taches definies ci-dessus (participation, examen et
evaluation des impacts, mise en cuuvre des mesures d'accompagnement preconisees, suivi-
6valuation, etc.) au niveau central, deconcentre, decentralise et des beneficiaires (on resumera
la r6partition des responsabilites dans un tableau ou un organigramme). On apportera une
attention particuliere A l'evaluation (i) des competences du personnel des institutions pour
interagir avec les populations pygmees, (ii) de la capacite des populations et organisations de
populations pygmees A interagir avec les agences gouvernementales;
- Proposer les mesures de renforcement de capacites et formation necessaires afin de permettre
aux individus et entites identifi6s ci-dessus de remplir ces mandats, Ces actions de
renforcement porteront notamment sur la connaissance et l'application des politiques de
sauvegarde des bailleurs;
- Proposer un calendrier et un plan de financement des propositions;
-  Demontrer la conformite des propositions avec les Politiques de sauvegarde des bailleurs.
P.S.: Compte tenu de l'isolement et eloignement geographique des differentes populations, les
visites de terrain seront focalisees sur les Baka et les Kola. Le consultant indiquera neanmoins
dans son rapport quels seront les impacts probables sur les populations Aka et si les propositions
faites pour la participation et l'implication des autres populations peuvent s'appliquer de la meme
maniere et reussir pour les Aka ou si une etude courte sera necessaire avant que Ic projet ne puisse
demarrer dans les zones oui vivent les Aka.
IV. METHODOLOGIE ET MECANISMES DE MISE EN OEUVRE
A. ApRroche methodologiaue et format du rapport
L'etude se deroulera en trois phases:
- La premiere phase consistera A une collecte de donn6es, une analyse documentaire et des
rencontres avec les groupes d'interet A Yaounde;
- La seconde phase consistera A r6aliser des consultations de terrain afin de realiser un
diagnostic des populations pygmees, de pr6voir les micro-projets qu'elles sont susceptibles de
demander, d'evaluer les impacts potentiels de ces micro-projets ainsi que de ceux que peuvent
demander les autres groupes locaux, de pr6voir les mesures d'attenuation et les mecanismes de
gestion de ces impacts. Les consultations devront concerner toutes les composantes de la
~~I



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  58
societe (femmes, jeunes, vieux, etc.). A l'issue de cette phase, un rapport preliminaire sera
remis (sous format papier et sous format informatique) a la Banque mondiale (1) et A la
Cellule de Coordination (1), et un atelier sera organise au Cameroun aupres de representants
des groupes affectes par le programme, en particulier des peuples pygmees.;
-   La troisieme phase consistera en l'integration des commentaires du Gouvemement
Camerounais, des differents groupes d'interet et des partenaires financiers. Le rapport final
sous format papier et sous format informatique sera remis A la Banque mondiale (I) et A la
Cellule de Coordination (I).
Le rapport final doit prendre la forme d'un rapport technique contenant les elements requis par
de la Directive Operationnelle 4.20 et les presents termes de ref6rence (voir paragraphe 111). Une
annexe comprenant lcs dates et nature des consultations (aussi bien consultation des communautes que
seminaire A Yaounde), participants, compte rendu des discussions, conclusions, la facon dont les
points dc vue ont ete pris cn compte dans l'etude etc. devra figurer dans le rapport. Le rapport sera
redige en anglais et comprendra un resume executif en francais et en anglais. Le consultant s'attachera
a la concision du rapport.
B. Coordination de l'etude
L'etude sera sous la maitrise d'ouvrage de la Banque mondiale. L'etude scra coordonnee par
la Banque mondiale en etroite relation avec la Cellule de Coordination du PNDP et sera realisee en
etroite collaboration avec le Groupe de Travail.
C. Conditions d'execution de l'etude
Le consultant aura la responsabilite d6finitive de la qualite de l'etude et du maintien du
calendrier des travaux.
D. Profil du Consultant
Expert d'experience internationale:
-   de formation sociologique ou anthropologique, ayant conduit des 6tudes sur des initiatives A
caractere participatives;
-   experience prouvee du Cameroun et des pygmes;
- connaissance des politiques de sauvegarde des bailleurs;
-  pratique de l'anglais et du francais.
E. Duree de l'etude
L'etude durera huit semaines. Elle impliquera 20 hommes jours.
F. Chronogramme tr6visionnel
| Seml  Sem2  Sem3  Sem4  SemS  Sem6  Sem7  SemS
Etudes documentaires   X     =_=__
Consultations de             X     X
terrain ; analyses;
presentation au groupe
de travail
Preparation du rapport                    X
provisoire



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)    59
Examen des rapports                             X      X     X
provisoires par le
Secretariat technique
et les partenaires
- Atelier de validation
- du rapport          I
Finalisation du rapport                                       _      X



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  60
Annex 2
The different national programmes and their relevance
for the Cameroonian national strategy of poverty
reduction (DSRP)



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                             61
PRESENTATION GLOBALE DES DIFFERENTS PROGRAMMES NATIONAUX (Version 02/2003)
DSRP (national)          DSDSR (Secteur Rural)        PNDP (MINEPAT)              PADC (MINAGRI)               PSFE (MINEF)
Nom exact Document de Stratlgie de        Document de Strat6gie de  Programme National de     Programme d'Appui au        Programme Sedonel
Reduction de la Pauvret6       D6veloppement du          Developpement Participatif De6veloppement              For6ts-Environnement
Secteur Rural                                        CommunaLutaire
Cadre      Document de base de chaque pays  Composante dbveloppement  Programme Natonal soutenu  Programme pilote du PNDP
d'inter-   pauvre qui definit sa strategie en  rural du DSRP        par differents bailleurs de  dans les provinces du Centre et
vention    matiere de croissance avec accent                        fonds pour aider les villages.  de l'ExtrAme Nord juges parmi
sur la reduction de la pauvret6 pour                     et les entites decentralises a  les plus pauvres et finance par
les prochaines annees (2015)                             prendre en charge leur    le FIDA avec l'appui de la GTZ
Chaque secteur est cense produire                        developpement
un document sectoriel et notamment
celui du d6veloppement rural
Sailleur   Initie par la BM et soutenu par tous  Sera decompose en differents Financement complexe sur  Financement FIDA;  MINEF, multibailleurs
de fonds   les bailleurs;                 programmes soutenus par les base SM et AFD, FIDA, GTZ,  Gestion MINAGRI          (F, Canada, D, GB, BM, BAD)
principal  Port& surtout par le Ministere de  BF: PNDP, PADC, PSFE etc. Gouvemement;
et        I'Economie et de Finances                                 Gestion MINEPAT
Ministere
de tutelle
Visionl    -  DiversKfcation accrue de    Assurer une croissance du  Reduire sensiblement la   Ameliorer durablement les con-  Mise en ceuvre de la polibique
cadre         I'economie pour ameliorer le  secteur rural soutenue,  pauvrete A l'horizon 2015 en  ditions de vie des populations  forestiere de 1994/95
superieur     taux de croissance et       durable et equitable      -   Assurant la prise en  dans les zones nirales les plus  OS: La conservation, la gestion
auquel le  -  Acfions cibl6es de redistributon                          charge du dbveloppement dbfavorisbes               et 1'exploitation durable des res-
pro-          en faveur des plus pauvres                                du milieu par les commu-                           sources forestieres et fauniques
gramme                                                                  nautbs locales et les ac-                          rbpondent aux besoins locaux,
se veut                                                                 teurs locaux                                       nationaux, r6gionaux et mondi-
contribuer                                                          -   Ameliorant l'acces aux                             aux des gbnbrations prbsentes
services de base, la                               et futures
securitb alimentaire et les                        00 : Une amblioration soutenue
revenus des populations                            des condibions de vie des popu-
-   Arnbliorant la gouver-                            lations riveraines a travers la
nance locale                                       gestion durable des ecosys-
temes foresfiers est assurne
Justifi-   R6duction de la pauvrete par   Developpement economique  Harmonisation des politiques  Mobilisabon des ressources des Mobilisation des ressources
cation     un developpement soutenu       (bconomie rurale) pour un  sectorielles (schema d'ame-  zones rurales pour un develop-  foresieres pour un develop-
developpement soutenu     nagement du territoire, decen- pement soutenu au niveau  pement soutenu
tralisabon et developpement  villageois
communal) pour un develop-
pement soutenu au niveau des
communautes rurales



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                            62
DSRP (national)         DSDSR (Secteur Rural)        PNDP (MINEPAT)             PADC (MINAGRI)               PSFE (MINEF)
ObJectifs  1. Promoton d'un cadre macro-  1. Reducbon de la pauvret6 -  Renforcement des capa-  -  Pnse en charge de leur  -  Les parties prenantes
a moyen       economique stable          2. Satisfacton de la         cites des communautbs      developpement par les      gerent durablement les
terme      2. Renforcement de la croissance  demande alimentaire      rurales et des communes    communautes villageoises   ressources forestibres et
par la diversification de l'econo-  nabonale croissante  -  Appui technique et finan-  et autres acteurs locaux  fauniques de facon A
mie                        3. Integration dans les      cier aux communautes       dans le respect de la parti-  perenniser les fonctions
3. Developpement du secteur prive  marches intemabonaux     rurales et communes       cipation, concertabon et    economiques, ecologiques
4. Developpement des ressources   et sous-regionaux     -   Contribubon A la cohe-    solidarite                  et sociales de l'ensemble
humaines                   4. DurabilitA des perfor-    rence des intervenbons  -  Amelioration de racces aux  des ecosystemes forestiers
5. Developpement des infrastruc-  mances A long terme       decentralisees            infrastructures sociales    du Cameroun
tures de base                                           Creation d'espaces de      dans les villages
6. Amelioration du cadre insttu-                            concertabon et de plani-  -  Augmentabon des revenus
bonnel et de la gouvemance                              fication participative favo-  des populabons cibles
risant les communautes
Compo-     Promotion d'un cadre economique Modemrisation de l'appareil Fonds d'appui au d6velop.  D6veloppement des capacites Connaissance de la ressource
sante 1   stable:                        de production             pement des communautes    de planification, interaction,  et monitoring ecologlque:
-   Ameliorer le taux de croissance  -  Rendre les facteurs de  rurales (FADCR):   negociation et gestion partici-
de 4.4 A 6 % et limiter le deficit  producbon disponibles  Cofinancer les micro-projets  pative au niveau des villages  Les outils de gesbon durable
budg6tairea                    (terres, intrants, eau)  des communautes et societbs  renforces:            des ressources forestibres et
-   Prendre des mesures pour la  -  Promouvoir l'acces aux  civile sur base de plans de  -  Capacite de planifier, orga-  fauniques sont 6laborns, discu-
creation d'emplois A travers  innovations techniques  dbveloppement vitlageois et  niser et gerer des commu-  tes et utilises selon la legislabon
I'amelioration de la competitivite  avec lien recherche et  plans de developpement  nautes villageoises    en vigueur par toutes les partes
de l'industrie, I'augmentabon de  vulgarisabon       communaux AlaborAs de     -   Capacite de lutter contre le  prenantes confommement A la
;I'pargne, la promoton des PME -  Developper la competi-  maniere participative apres  VIH/SIDA            reglementation en vigueur
et arfisanat, l'ublisation de tech-  tivite des filiAres de pro-  approbabon du comite pari-  -  Promotion/renforcement
nique HIMO, la diversification  duction              taire communal et un comite   des micro entrepreneurs
des exportabons non pAtroliAres Avec accent sur l'agriculture  partaire d'approbation et de  -  CrAation d'espaces de con-
et surtout l'agro-industrie et  paysanne et les PME agri-  supervision provincial.  certabon entre la commune
augmentaton de la producton  coles.                  3 types de projets:           et le village
de l'6nergie                                         -   Infrastructures lourdes;
-   Socio-economique:
-   Environnemental et
geston des ressources
naturelles



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                               63
DSRP (national)          DSDSR (Secteur Rura)I         PNDP (MINEPAT)              PADC (MINAGRI)                PSFE (MINEF)
Compo-     Diversification de I'6conomie et  La restructuration du cadre  Appul aux communes dans  Appui aux activites gen6ra-  Amenagement des forts de
sante 2    renforcement de la croissance:  institutionnel:           le processus progressif de  tnices de revenus          production du domaine per-
decentralisation                                       manent et valorisation des
11 s'agit ici d'agir sur la diversification  -  Reorganiser les services             -   Assistance technique aux  prodults forestiers
de l'economie pour dependre moins  publics aux fins de    Preparer les communes et les   producteurs organises
du secteur primaire (bois et petrole).  favoriser un      communaut6s villageoises a     (march6s. production,    Les concessions forestibres sont
La prionte sera la diversification dans  environnement incitatif  s'encrer dans le processus de  faisabilite, etc.)  amenagees durablement selon
I'agnculture et la promotion de  -  Susciter l'emergence  decentralisabon et reduction  -  Mise en place de cautons  les rbgles de l'art et sur une
I'ndustne eft d6veloppement du     d'organisabons         de la pauwret:                 de realisations : un fonds  base l6gale et les produits des
tourisme et des services sociaux et  professionnels et des  3 sous-composantes:          pour perrnettre d'accrder  filieres bois et PFNL valorises
services du secteurproductif:      Ong perfommantes       -   Appui a la refomme de la   aux IMF                  de manibre efficace
-   Promobon de l'agriculture (voir  -  Appuyer le secteur prive  fiscalite, de finances et du
DSSR)                                                     domaine des collectivites
-   La promoton de l'industrie                               locales d6centralisoes
donne pnorite a des restructura-                      -   Renfonrement des capa-
lions pour ameliorer la competi-                          cites des communes
bivite du secteur agro-industriel                      -  Renforcement des capa-
et metallurgique et le divelop-                           cites de l'administrabon
pement du secteur prive. Ia lutte                         en decentralisationl.
contre la contrebande et le dum-
ping, la promoton de pepinibres
d'entreprises. le renforcement
de la formation technique.
- Tourisme et autres services
marchands par l'amelioration de
la formation; partenariat avec le
secteur pnve pour infrastruc-
tures et communication, deve-
loppement du secteur immobilier
et developpement du tourisme,
la promotion des TIC, l com-
merce et l'intemmediation finan-
ciere (banques et IMF. notam-
ment projet PPMF)
11



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                               64
DSRP (national)          DSDSR (Secteur Rural)         PNDP (MINEPAT)              PADC (MINAGRI)                PSFE (MINEF)
Compo-     Dynamisation du secteur prive   L'amelioration du cadre   Renforcement des capacdt6s Micro Infrastructures sociales  Conservation de la biodiver-
sante 3                                    incitatif:                au niveau local:                                       slte et valorisatlon des pro-
-   AmOliorer l'acces des PMEIPMI  -  Adapter l'environnement  Inciter les populations benefi-  -  Les petites infrastructures  duits fauniques:
au financement                  reglementaire         ciaires b mettre a profit l'initia-  dans l'education, la sante,  La biodiversit6 est conservee et
-   Respect de la charte des    -  Promouvoir le d6veloppe- five et l'6nergie locale dans la  1'eau, les pistes faciles A  les produits fauniques valorisbs
investissements                 ment du financement et  rbduction de la pauvretb     etre rbalisees seront finan-
-   Environnement favorable        des marchbs financiers  -  Amener les acteurs        cbes si elles sont intdgr6es
-   Formabon                       dans le secteur            locaux b s'impliquer      dans le plan de developpe-
-   Fonds d'aide aux PMEIPMI    -  Developper les infra-  -   Renforcer les capacites    ment villageois
A etudier                       structures rurales        techniques, organisafion-  -  Les plus grandes infra-
-   Appui a la compebbvite                                    nelles et manageriales     structures seront confides
-   Re4quilibrage secteur public/                             des communautes et des     au FEICOM (pas la PADC)
privb                                                     structures d'accompagne-
ment
- Animer et sensibiliser les
acteurs pour mettre en
place un cadre de concer-
tation
-   Diffuser de nouveaux
comportements et com-
pbtences au sein des
populations (IMS/SIDA:
gestfon des ressources
naturelles)
-   Renforcer leas IMF                                _
Compo-     Developpement des infrastruc-   La gestion durable des    Gestion, coordination et   Coordination du projet:     Gestion communautaire des
sante 4    tures et ressources naturelles:  ressources naturelles:   Suivi tvaluation:                                      ressources forestleres et
-   L'amelioration et entretien des  -  Gerer de maniere coor-  Mettre b disposiffon les infor-  -  Financement d'une unite de fauniques:
infrastructures de base, routes,  donnee l'espace nural  mations et outils de gestion et  coordination nafionale et de Les populations ont participe
telephone, electricite, 1'eau, les  -  Gerer et valofiser leas  d'aide a la d6cision  deux unitbs de coordination  aux prises de decisions et
ports par mandat au secteur     ressources            3 activitbs:                   provinciales             bbneficient des retombees
prive                       -   Preserver et restaurer les -  Developperment des  -  Recrutement de l'assis-  financieres de la gesbon de la
-   La promotion des batiments et  potentiels de production.  mecanismes de suivi-      tance technique         flore et faune pour un develop-
travaux publics par contrats  Le travail portera sur les res-  evalaution        -   Financement du personnel  pement communal soutenu
avec le secteur privb et Etat  sources ci-apres:      -   Gestion de l'infommation   d'appui
-   L'utlisation de techniques HIMO  leas sols, 1'eau, les pAturages  au sein du PNDP  -  Appui A la coordination
-   Ressources naturelles et envi-  et la biodiversitb    -   Communication au sein      nationale de la composante
ronnement                                                 du PNDP                    dbveloppement communau-
taire du PNDP au MINAGRI
Compo-     Reduction de la pauwete urbaine:                                                                                 Gestion environnementale
sante 5    Par I'amelioration des conditions de                                                                             des op6rations d'am6nage-
vie en villa et le renforcement de son                                                                           ment:
role Aconomique (habitat, insecurite,                                                                            Le mainffen des equilibres
salubrit, infrastructures etc.                                                                                   ecologiques est assure.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                               65
DSRP (national)          DSDSR (Secteur Rural)         PNDP (MINEPAT)              PADC (MINAGRI)                PSFE (MINEF)
Compo-     Renforcement et valorisation des                                                                                 Renforcement institutionnel,
sante 6    ressources humaines:                                                                                             formation et recherche
(Refofme insbtutonnelle du
Educabon et reduction de la                                                                                   secteur foresbter):
pauvret6 par l'universalisabon
de l'enseignement primaire,                                                                                   La mise en oeuvre de la poli-
I'amelioration de l'acces et de                                                                               bque foresti4re du Cameroun
INquitM dans les autres niveaux                                                                               est efficace
et I'amelioration de la qualite et
la pertinence des enseigne-
ments et l amelioration de la
gestion et de la gouvemance
Sante et r6duction de la pauvre-
te: il s'agit de reduire les diff6-
rentes mortalites (naissance,
infanbles), la malnutrition, assu-
rer les SSP a tous en 2015 et
plan sp6edaux anb-paludisme et
ant-sida, las vaccinations. les
medicaments, epidemies. pro-
motion des mutuelles, sante de
la mere et adolescent, alimen-
tabron et nutriton et maladies
non transmissibles
Autres polibiques et strategies
sociaaes: protection social et
solidarite nationale, promotion
de l'egalite et equit6 des sexes.
education sociale, emploi et
besoims essentiels
Creation d'emplois et insertion
des marginalises par le HIMO,
Iauto-emploi et AGR



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                 66
DSRP (national)          DSDSR (Secteur Rural)          PNDP (MINEPAT)              PADC (MINAGRI)                PSFE (MINEF)
Compo-     Renforcement du cadre institu-
sante 7    tionnel et de la gouvernance par:
Promoton d'un cadre incitatf
pour le secteur priv6:
Etat regulateur non acteur,
informabontformation. les lois, la
privabsation etc.;
-   Partenarat entre acteurs public,
priv6, soci6t6 civile et ONG en
renfor,ant les administrabons,
les capacit6s de la soci6te civile,
las instances de concertation,
des politiques concert6es;
- Gouvemance et lutte contre la
corruption : avec un programme
sp6cial                                                                                               .
Budget     -   Par l'Etat et l1nitabive PPTE  Diffrents programmes seront Montage financer en cours.  Budget de 12.8 milliands FCFA  Evaluation d6flnitve prevue
et finan-  -   Les bailleurs               6labores et soumis a diff6-  AFD:       50.00 mio Eur  sur 7 ans (18.2 mio $ US) dont: pour 06/2003
cement     -   Le secteur prv6             rents bailleurs de fonds.  BM:           5.00 mio $ US 64.3% FIDA (11.7 mio $US pret)
-  La participation de la populabon                       FIDA         11.75 mio $ US  9.7% b6nficiaires
Les budgets seront prparns par les                        Coop. allemde: 8.75 mio $ US 20.7% insbit. de microfinances
plans sectoriels.                                          Don japonais: 0.60 mio $ US  5.4% GoC.
Les secteurs sociaux auront les bud-                       + gouvemement, etc. - soit
gets les plus 1evs (jusqu'a 90%)                         121 mio $ US sur 15 ans



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                               67
DSRP (national)          DSDSR (Secteur Rural)         PNDP (MINEPAT)              PADC (MINAGRI)                PSFE (MINEF)
M6canis- -    Le pilotage se fait de maniere  La strategie sera executee  Au niveau villageois:  -  Les villages eiaboreront des
mes de        participative d'ou necessite de  sous formes de programmes  La communaut6 s'organise en  projets de maniere
gestion       renforcer les capacites des  notamment:                un Comite de Concerta6on      parficipafive et soumettront
acteurs                     -   Le PNDP pour le deve-  (CC) a la base et etablit un  des projets qui remonteront
-   Lexecufion se fait le comite de  loppement local      plan de d6veloppement com-     via les unites provinciales et
supervision e de coordination de -  Le developpement des  munautaire de maniere parti-  nationales. puis
I'action gouvemementale pour le  productions vegetales,  cipative (PDV) avec toutes les  budgqfisees
franchissement du point d'ache-  animales et halieutiques  forces vives de la communau-  -  Des agences d'execution
vement et sur le plan technique  avec 4 sous-programmes te. Le CC approuve les pro-  realiseront certaines
le CTS                          que sont:             jets, les envoie a la hierarchie,  interventions sur
-   Des mesures de suivi et des     1) les filieres porteuses,  re9oit les fonds, passe les  n6gociation avec les
indicateurs sont determines     2) le developpement des  march6s.                    communautes locales.
-   Ces mecanismes de suivi com-   exploitations,         Au niveau communal:        -   Un comite de pilotage
prennent: le suivi d'execution,  3) le developpement des  Comite Partaire (Etat-b6n6fi-  interministeriel d6finira les
le suivi d'impact et le suivi parti-  OPA,            ciaires) d'Approbation et de   politiques du projet;
dpatif                          4) la mademisation des  Supervision de Niveau Com-  -  Le suivi-evalaution inteme
Un effort sera fait pour l'amelio-  administrafions, I'en-  munal (CPASNC):          sera particbpatif et y inclura
ration de la production et diffu-  seignement technique et  12 membres (5 Etat, 5 base et  les communaut6s et sera
sion d linformation statisfique  professionnel, la micro-  2 6lus) approuve les projets at  complet6 par des 6tudes
finance               suit.                          d'impact de consultants
-   La gestion de l'environ-  Au niveau provincial (ou   locaux.
nement et des forets  regional): Cellule Provinciale
du Proaramme(CPP), techni-
ciens charges de gerer des
sous-traitances qui executent
des interventions et
Comite Provincial d'Apoioba-
bon et de Supervision (CPAS)
qui 6tudie les projets soumis
par les communes et en
assure le suivi.
Au niveau national:
Comit6 National de Pilotaae
(CNP) qui definit les polifiques
et rassemble minist6res, ben6-
fidaires (CC et communes),
societe civile, lus locaux/
nafionaux et bailleurs et
Cellule Nationale du Pro-
gramme qui est l'executif
charge de gerer les sous-
traitances et partenariats.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)         68
Annex 3 -
Itinerary



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)        69
Following the terms of reference (Annex 1), the total duration of the short term consultancy
was 20 working da's. The assigunent was carried out solemnly by Dr. Kai Schmidt-Soltau
between March 10' 2003 and April 8'h 2003.
Time table of the IPDP of the PNDP
Day No.   Date      Place           Activity
l         10/3/03   Yaound6         Literature review
2         11/3/03   Yaound6         Discussion with World Bank office Yaounde (Angeline Mani, &
Emmanuel Ngankam), PNDP/MINPAT (Marie-Madeleine Nga/
Proiect Coordinator), CERAD (Patrice Logo/ Director).
3         12/3/03   Yaound6         Discussion with CODIBABIK (Jacques Ngang/ President, Ida),
PGPA (Brigitte Reichelt/ Lead technical advisor & Anke Borggrafe
Technical advisor)
4          13/3/03  Yaound6         Discussion with ECOFAC (Etienne Legue/ Conservator), SNV
(Maryvonee Bretin/ Technical Advisor on social issues), INADES-
Foundation and RACOPY (Elisabeth Fouda)
5         14/3/03   Yaound6         Discussion with PROFORNAT (Mathias Heinze/ Lead technical
advisor).
6         15/3/03   Lomie           Transfer to the eastern province. Discussion with ASBAK (Valere,
Simon).
-7        16/3/03   Moangu6     le  Discussion with Baka population.
Bosquet
8         17/3/03   Abakoum         Discussion with Baka population.
9         18/3/03   Abong Mbang     Discussion with Baka population, discussion with catholic mission
(Father Paul Cuypers).
10        19/3/03   To Yaound6      Discussion with Bantu and Baka population. Transfer
11        20/3/03   Lolodorf,       Discussion  with MINAS   Delegation  Lolodorf (Louis-Oswald
Bongouana       Mabali). Discussion with CODIBABIK (Pierre, Charles, Marie) and
Kola population
12        21/3/03   Mingo, Akom     Tracking to forest camp and discussion with Kola population.
2               Discussion with MINAS Delegation Akom 2 (Marc Benfono Ndiba)
13        22/3/03   Ndtoua,         Discussion with Bantu traditional ruler (Jean-Eduard Bigouer)
Maboulo         Tracking to forest camp and discussion with Kola population. A
planed discussion with the district officer Akom 2, FAGAPECAM
and Kola traditional rulers was prohibited by the DO Akom 2.
14        23/3/03   Bongouana,      Discussion with Bantu and Kola population. Transfer.
To Yaounde
15        24/3/03   Yaounde         Report writing.
16        25/3/03   Yaound6         Discussion with the department in charge of marginalised
populations/ MINAS (Essaca Atsiga). Report writing.
17        26/3/03   Yaound6         Report writing.
18        6/4/03    Yaounde         Preparation of workshop
19        7/4/03    Yaound6         Workshop
20        9/5/03    Yaounde         Workshop:   Integration  of workshop  recommendations   and
l _______  l _______  ______________  finalisation  of report
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  70
Stakeholder consulted
* Government of Cameroon
Marie-Madeleine Nga (Project Coordinator of the PNDP; MINPAT; Yaounde).
Essaca Atsiga (Director of the department for marginalised population and victims;
MINAS; Yaounde).
Louis-Oswald Mabali (Divisional Delegate of MINAS; Lolodorf).
Marc Benfono Ndiba (Divisional Delegate of MINAS; (Akom 2).
* Donor organisations, multilateral and bilateral agencies
Angeline Mani (World Bank office, Yaounde).
Emmanuel Noubissie Ngankam (World Bank office, Yaounde).
Brigitte Reichelt (Lead technical advisor of the PGPA (GTZ), Yaounde).
Anke Borggrafe (Technical advisor of the PGPA (GTZ), Yaounde).
Etienne Legue (Conservator of Dja National Park (ECOFAC-MINEF), Yaounde).
Maryvonee Bretin (Technical Advisor on social issues of the SNV, Yaounde).
Mathias Heinze (Lead technical advisor of PROFORNAT (GTZ), Yokadouma).
Jaap Kok (Project manager SDDL (SNV), Lomie).
*  Associations of the Baka and Kola
(According to the request of the Baka and Kola interviewed are here and in thefollowing
most of the time only first names of interview partners provided)
Jacques Ngang/ President (CODIBABIK, Yaounde)
Ida (CODIBABIK, Yaounde)
Pierre (CODIBABIK, Bongouana)
Charles (CODIBABIK, Bongouana)
Marie (CODIBABIK, Bongouana)
Valere Akpakoua Ndj6ma (ASBAK, Lomie)
Helene Aye Mondo (ASBAK, Abong Mbang)
Simon (ASBAK, Lomie)
Locien (ASBAK, Moangue le Bosquet)
Odet (ASBAK, Moangue le Bosquet)
Richard (ASBAK, Moangue le Bosquet)
Motireme (ASBAK, Moangue le Bosquet)
Rene (ASBAK, Abakoum)
Emil (ASBAK, Abakoum)
* Non-governmental-organisations
Patrice Bigombe Logo (Director of CERAD; Yaounde).
Elisabeth Fouda (Desk officer in charge of pygmy population of INADES-Foundation, Yaounde).



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  7 1
Elisabeth Fouda (Coordinator of RACOPY).
Father Paul Cuypers (Catholic mission).
* Primary stakeholders
Lucien (Moangu6 le Bosquet)
Marie (Moangue le Bosquet)
Odette (Moangue le Bosquet)
Richard (Moangu6 le Bosquet)
Motireme (Moangue le Bosquet)
Josef (Moangue le Bosquet, Community Forest committee)
Pierre (Moangue le Bosquet, Community Forest committee)
Paul (Moangue le Bosquet, Community Forest committee)
Thaddeus (Moangue le Bosquet, Community Forest committee)
Emil (Abakoum)
Rene (Abakoum)
Cedar (Abakoum)
Claude (Abakoum)
Rome (Abakoum)
Boto (Abakoum)
Megbe (Abakoum)
Manba (Abakoum)
Akomba (Abakoum)
Leo (Abakoum)
Basi (Abakoum)
Nestor (Bongouana)
Pierre (Bongouana)
Charles (Bongouana)
Marie (Bongouana)
Chief Jean-Edward Bigouer ("Bantu"-village Ndtoua, which includes the Kola settlement
Maboulo)
Eugene (Maboulo)
Fransois (Maboulo)
Anne (Maboulo)
Celine (Maboulo)
Margot (Maboulo)
Pierre (Maboulo)
Paul (Maboulo)
Charles (Maboulo)
Elem (Mingo)
Oyono (Mingo)
Mado (Mingo)



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  72
Ela (Mingo)
Mba (Mingo)
Ngale (Mingo)
Mbire (Mingo)
Eli (Mingo)
Emma (Mingo)
Mbea (Mingo)
Elise (Mingo)
Ngele (Mingo)



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)         73
Annex 4
Bibliography
l



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  74
Abilogo, E. & Mondo, H. A. & Logo, P. & Nguiffo, S-A. 2002. The ECOFAC project and
the Baka pygmies of the eastern border of the Dja biosphere reserve (Eastern
Province - Cameroon. Brussels: EU-Press.
Abega, S.C. 1998. Pygmees Baka: Le droit a la difference. Yaounde: Presses de 'UCAC.
Althabe, G. 1965. Changements sociaux chez les pygmees Baka de l'est Cameroun. Cahiers
d'etudes Africaines 20 :561-92.
Atangana, A.D.A. 1999. Adaptions difficiles dans un environnement en mutation. In: le
Journal d'ICRA 34 :5.
Bahuchet, S. 1999. (ed.) The situation of indigenous peoples in tropical forests. APFT
(Avenir des peuples des forets tropicales) pilot report - Online version.
Bahuchet, S. 1993a. Situation des populations indigenes de forets denses et humides.
Bruxelles: Commission europeenne.
Bahuchet, S. 1993b. History of the inhabitants of the central African rain forest: Perspective
from comparative linguistics. In: Hladik et al. 37-62.
Bahuchet, S. 1993c. (ed.) Atlas des populations indigenes des forets denses humides. Projet
CEE - online version.
Bahuchet, S. 1990 Food sharing among the Pygmies of Central Africa. A comparison
between the Aka and the Baka, Gyeli (Kola) and Mbuti. African Study Monographs,
11 (1): 27-53.
Bahuchet, S., 1985 Les Pygmees Aka et la foret Centrafricaine. Paris: SELAF, CNRS.
Barbier, J.C. 1978. Les pygmees de la plaine Tikar au Cameroun. Yaounde: ONAREST.
Borges, J.L. & Guerrero, M. 1970. The book of imaginary beings. London: Jonathan Cape.
Bailey, R.C. & Bahuchet, S. & Hewlett, B. 1990. Development in Central African rain
forest: concerns for forest peoples. Washington: World Bank
Bundu, D. 2001. Social relationship embodied in singing and dancing performance among
the Baka. In: African Study Monographs Suppl. 26: 85-101.
Cavalli-Sforza, L.L. (ed.) 1986. African Pygmies. New York: Academic Press.
Castillo-Fiel, C. de 1949 Los Bayeles: un grupo de pigmoidos de la Guinea espagnola.
Revista de anthropologia y ethnologia, 2, 441-67.
CODEBABIK 2000. l'Union fait la force - Programme - online version.
Demesse, L. 1980. Techniques et economie des pygmes Babinga. Paris: Institut
d'ethnology.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  75
Dounias, E. 1993. Perception and use of wild yam by the Baka hunter-gatherers in South
Cameroon. In: Hladik et al. 621-632.
Dounias, E. 1987 Ethno-ecologie des Pygmees Bagyeli. Rapport de stage multigraphie. Le
Havre: ISTOM.
ERM 2003a. Environmental and social management framework: Community development
programme. Washington.
ERM 2003b. Resettlement policy framework: community development programme.
Washington.
Etudes socio-economiques regionales au Cameroun: Province du sud. 1999a.
Etudes socio-economiques regionales au Cameroun: Province du est. 1999b.
Etudes socio-economiques regionales au Cameroun: Cadrage national. 2000.
Fisiy, C. 1996. Techniques of land acquisition: The concept of 'crown land' in colonial and
post-colonial Cameroon. In: Debusmann, R. & Arnold, S. (Eds.) 1996. Land law and
land ownership in Africa. Bayreuth: Bayreuth African Studies. Pp. 223-254.
Garcia, R.L. 1992. Cultural diversity and minority rights: A consummation devoutly to be
demurred. In: Lynch, J. & Modgil, C. & Modgil, S. (eds.). Cultural diversity and the
schools: Vol.4: Human rights, education and global responsibilities. Bristol: Falmer.
Pp. 103-120.
Grinker, R.R. 1994. Houses in the Rainforest - Ethnicity and Inequality among Farmers
and Foragers in Central Africa. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Homan, R. 1992. Separate schools. In: Lynch, J. & Modgil, C. & Modgil, S. (eds.). Cultural
diversity and the schools: Vol.l: Education for cultural diversity: Convergence and
divergence. Bristol: Falmer. Pp. 59-72.
Joiris, D.V. 1996. A comparable approach to hunting rituals among Baka. In: Kent, S. (ed.)
Cultural diversity among the 20th century foragers. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press. Pp.245-275.
Joiris, D.V. 1993. The mask that is hungry for yams: ethno-ecology of Disoscorea
magenotiana among the Baka. In: Hladik et al. 633-642.
Kamei, N. 2001. An educational project in the forest: schooling for the Baka children in
Cameroon. In: African Study Monographs Suppl. 26: 185-195.
Komatsu, K. 1998. The food cultures of the shifting cultivators in Central Africa: The
diversity of food material. In: African Study Monographs Suppl. 25: 149-177.
Koppert, G.J.A., 1991 - Rapport provisoire des enquetes alimentaires de I'anthropometrie
nutritionnelle des actogrammes et de la d6pense 6nerg6tique (Yassa, Mvwe de la c6te,



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  76
Mva de la foret, Pygmees Kola, Duupa, Koma, Massa, Mousey, Evodoula). Projet
Anthropologie Alimentaire des Populations Camerounaises. ORSTOM, Yaounde.
Kretsinger, A. 1993. The health care unit for the BaAka in the Dzanga-Sanga dense forest
reserve. Bangui: Health Care Unit Consultancy report.
Lee, R.B. & DeVore, I. (eds.) 1968. Man the Hunter. Chicago: University Press.
Lee, R.B. & Hitchcock, R.K. 2001. African hunter-gatherers: survival, history, and the
politics of identity. In: African Study Monographs Suppl. 26: 257-280.
Leurat, N. 1998. Minorites et organisation de 1'etat: Actes du quatrieme colloque
international de la common law en Fran9ais. Bruxelles : Bruylant.
Lewin, R. 1888. New views emerge on hunter and gatherers. Science 240:1146-1148.
Logo, P.B. in press. Les pygmees du Cameroun meridional forestier: Mythes et realites de
l'ajustement a la modernite. Yaounde: Presses de 'UCAC.
Logo, P.B. 2002. Le probleme < pygmee >: Le besoin d'une citoyennete multiculturelle.
In: Le cahiers de mutations 5 (Septembre): 15.
Loung, J-F. in press. Le peuplement pygmee au Cameroun. In : Logo pp.9-18.
Loung, J-F. 1991. La politique de sedentarisation et d'integration socio-economique des
Pygmees du communaute nationale au Cameroun. Yaounde: Ish.
Matthijs, Y. 1999. ICRA Suisse s'engage aux c6tes des Pygmees Bagyeli du Sud
Cameroun. In : International Commission for the right of aboriginal people. 34: 11.
Ngima, G.M. 2001. The relationship between the Bakola and the Bantu peoples of the
coastal regions of Cameroon and their perception of commerical forest exploitation.
African Study Monographs Suppl. 26: 209-235.
Oket, F. 1984. L'integration socio-economique des pygmees du Cameroun: Cas de la
province de l'Est. Marseille : Presse de la universite Marseille 2.
Pageezy, H. 1988 Contraintes nutritionnelles en Milieu forestier equatorial liees a la
saisonnalite et a la Reproduction: Reponses Biologiques et Strategies de subsistance
chez les Ba-Oto et les Ba-Twa du village de la Nzalekenga (lac tumba, zaire). These
de doctorat. Universite d'Aix-Marseille Ill.
PNDP 2002a. Programme national de developpement participatif: Document du
programme. Yaounde.
PNDP 2002b. Programme national de developpement participatif: Manuel de execution.
Yaounde.
Possey, D.A. 1997. National Laws and International Agreements affecting Indigenous and
Local Knowledge: Conflict or Conciliation? APFT (Avenir des peuples des forets
tropicales) report - Online version.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  77
Sahlins, M. 1968. Notes on the original affluent society. In: Lee, R.B. & DeVore, 1. (eds.)
1968. Man the Hunter. Chicago: Aldine. Pp.85-89.
Schebesta, P. 1938-1958. Die Bambuti-Pygmaen von Ituri. Brussels: Boekhandel Falk &
Zoon.
Schmidt-Soltau, K. 2002. Human Activities in and around the Takamanda Forest Reserve:
Socio-economic Baseline Survey. GTZ-Consultancy report.
Schmidt-Soltau, K. 2003. Is there a Right to Resist? A Philosophical Survey of the People
and Parks Paradigm. Paper presented at the 8th Biannual Conference of the
International Association for the Study of Forced Migration, Chiang Mai (5-9
January).
Schweinfurth, G. 1873. The heart of Africa: Three years' travel and adventures in the
unexplored regions of Central Africa from 1868-1871. London: Samson Low,
Marston, Low and Searle.
SIL 2000. Cameroon. In: Grimes, B.F. (ed.) Ethnologue, 13th Edition. Online Version:
Summer Institute of Linguistics.
John Mope Simo, J.M. & Nkwi, P.N. 1997. Nature and Human Development Among the
Baka Pygmies Concepts and Perceptions. Man in nature - online version
Ternaya, A. 1948. de Les pygmees Baka de l'est du Cameroun. Lyon: Les Missions
Catholoique.
Turnbull, C.M. 1961. The forest people. New York: Simon & Schuster.
Tsuru, D. 1998. Diversity of ritual spirit performances among the Baka pygmies in
southeastern Cameroon. In: African Study Monographs Suppl. 25: 47-84.
Vallois, H.V. & Marquer, V. 1976. Le pygmees Baka du Cameroun: Anthropologie et
ethnographie avec annexe demographique. Paris: Edition du Museum.
World Bank 1999. Chad export project Cameroon portion- environmental management
plan - Volume 4 - Indigenous Peoples Plan - May 1999.
World Bank 2002a. Safeguard policies: Selected policies and materials. CD-Rom.
World Bank 2002b. Aide memoire: Mission d'appui technique au programme national de
developpement participatif. Washington.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP .Carmeroon - Final Report,(June 2003)     78
Annex 5
Maps



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                    79
The different ethnic groups in the western part of the Congo basin (Source: Bahuchet 1993)
rE~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                   16
. f
_ foWetdcbarwuc td0aI0t2dde 
rforet detuxer     lO@                                                      lc 1  i2F-  
Langues et ethnies de l'ouest du bassin congolais               Groupes Pygm6es
I     Basa                   29    Gbaya-buli             57    Ngae            7              Kola4Gyel
2     Bakoko                 30    Yangere                 58    TIb            A               Baka
3     Batanga                31     Pomo                   59    Bongom         B               Aka-Mbenzele
4     Yasa                   32     Bogongo                60    Likuba         C              Aka
5     Mabea                  33    Ngundi                  61    Bobangi        D              Mikaya
6     Ngumba                  34   Pande                   62    Mahongwe       E              Bongo
7     Kola (Gyeli)           35    Ngondi                  63    Shake
8     Mvae                   36    Bofi                    64    Aduma
9     Bulu                   37    Ngando                  65    Kande
10    Ntumu                  38    Ngbaka-mabo             66    Mpongwe
11    Beti                   39    Mbati                   67    Kele
12    Fang                   40    Monzombo               68    Galwa
13    Fang-Nzaman            41    Enyele                  69    Fang-Betsi



I
i
I
i
i
i
i
I



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                    80
14    Nzem                   42    Bondongo                70    Fang-Okak
15    Nzime                  43    Bakwcle                 71    Sangu
16    Bajwe                  44    Yesua                   72    Nzebi
17    Maka                   45    Mbomotaba               73    Mbamba
18    Kako                   46    Mbonjo                  74    Mbangwe
19    Kwakum                 47    Babole                  75    Ndumbo
20    Mbimu                  48     Bongili                76    Tsogo
21    Bijugi                  49    Bomoali                77    Sira
22    Mpopom                  50   Bomasa                  78    Punu
23    Mbomam                  51    Likwala                79    Lumbu
24    Konabembe               52    Kota                   80    Tsangi
25    Bangando                53   Mpo                     81    Kombe
26    Esel                   54     Mboshi                 82    Benga
27    Gbaya-biyanda           55   Mboko                   83    Bujeba
28    Gbaya-bokare           56    Mbcte



I
I
i
7
i
I
I
I
I
i
I
I                          I



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Carmeroon - Final Report - 13.06.2003                             81
G        A               _ M     s 






Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  81
Annex 6
Memorandum sur l'allegement des procedures de
delivrance des pieces officielles aux populations Pygmees
l



Reseau RACOPY
Reseau de Recherche - Actions Concertees Pygmees
S/C INADES-Formation Cameroun BP 11 Yaoundd
Tel: 21 15 51 / 21 17 48   Fax:22 11 44
A Son Excellence Monsieur Is
Gouverneur de la Province du Sud
EBOLOWA
Objet:     Memorandum sur l'allegement des
proc6dures de delivrance des pieces
officielles aux populations Pygmees.
Excellerice Monsieur le Gouverneur,
Le Reseau RACOPY (Recherche Actions Concert6es Pygmres ) est un cercie anim6
par des representants d'ONG et projets qui travaillent en milieu Pygmee. 11 a pour but
principal de favoriser les echanges d'experiences entre les dffferents partenaires. La
recherche, l'action et la formation constituent les moyens mis en cauvre pour mieux
apprehender la specificite Pygmee afin d'etre plus efficace dans les Interventions
aupres de ce peuple. Le Rdseau RACOPY est compose des organisations et projets
suivants: INADES-Formation base & Yaoundd et pr6sent dans la Province du Sud, le
Foyer Notre Dame de la Fordt (FONDAF) base & Bipindi, le Centre pour
l'Environnement et le C)veloppement (CED) base A Yaounde et travaillant dans
l'arrondissement de Dioum, Planet Survey base A Yaound6 et ayant une antenne
regionale pour le Sud sise A Lolodorf, le Projet Campo Ma'an ex6cutd par la SNV
(Organisation Neerlandaise pour le D6veloppement) bas6 A Kribi, le Foyer Notre
Dame de la Mer base A Kribi, le foyer des jeunes filles Baka de Djoum, FAGAPECAM
base A Kribi, CIAD, base A Lomil, le projet SDOL base A Lomie.
Dans notre travail quotidien avec ces organisations et ces groupes locaux, il se
degage que les Pygmees souhaitent de plus en plus avoir la possibilit6 de disposer
des pieces officielles. point de depart de leur int6gration v6rltable au sein de la
communaute camerounaise A laquelle, ils revendiquent le droit d'appartenir. Suite A
ces demandes toujours plus pressantes, les organisations partenaires du reseau
RACOPY ont inscrit le probl6me de la citoyennete A I'ordre du jour de leur cinquibme
rehcontre ordinaire tenue les 8 et 9 juin dans les locaux du CED A Dioum.
A l'issue de cette rencontre. il a etd recommande aux dtffrents partenaires de faire
un etat des lieux de la situation dans ieurs zones respectives en vue d'une action
concertee et plus effic:ace.



Etats des lleux de la situation des actes de neissance et cartes d'identitd
nationale dans chaque localit4
De maniere gendrale, la situation de l'etat civil chez les Pygmies du Cameroun est
alarmante. Le problAme se pose avec acuite dans tous les campements Pygmees.
Les resultats du recensement effectue par les diffdrents partenaires A Ojoum par le
CED. b Kribi par la SNV, le Foyer Notre Dame de la Mer, A Lolodorf par Planet Survey
et a Bipindi par le Foyer Notre Dame de Ia ForAt (FONDAF) montrent que plus 95 %
des pygmees n'ont ni acte de naissance, ni carte d'identite nationale et dispose
encore moins des autres pibces d'etat civil. Cette situation les prive ainsi de la
jouissance de leurs droits civiques.
A Dpoum par exemple, on compte juste une vingtaine de Pygm6es disposant d'une
carte nationale d'identit4. parmi lesquels douze (12) ont profit6 de loccasion d'un
voyage d'Achange organis6 par le CED entre les Pygmees de Dpoum et ceux de
Moloundou A I'Est du pays. A Bipindi et Kribi par contre, soule une dizalne de
Pygm4es possbde une carte nationaie d'identlt cartonnde dont l'etablissement
coOtait moins cher que les cartes informatis4es actuelles.
La situation des actes de naissance n'est guAre plus satisfaisante, et ce en depit des
centres d'6tat civil ddcentralis6s situ6s A proximite des campements. Les Pygm6es
ne s'y rcndent pas spontanement A cause de leurs rapports conflictuels avec les
Bantous et des frustrations qu'ils eprouvent face & certains agents de l'administration.
11 nous a 6t6 donnd de constater quo les populations Pygm6es de la province
ignorent tout des proc6dures d'obtention des pices officlelles et ne sont pas
suffisamment outillees pour faire tace A la complexdtd de ces demarchos
administratives.
Notons 6galement quo, pour peu qu'olles posent le problAme de l'obtention des
pices officielles, ces dernieres font souvent face au manque de scrupule de certains
agents de I'4tat qul n'hsitent pas A les humilier, les frustrer. voire les rangonner. De
tels agissements ne favonsent pas toujours l'int6gration sociale des Pygm4es.
Malgrd toutes ces contraintes, les Pygmees n'entendent plus rester on marge de la
societe. Plus que jamais, Us manifestent le d6slr de jouir comme tous les autres
Camerounais des privileges lids A la citoyennet6 Camerounaise et comptent
actuellement sur les organisations d'appui que nous sommes pour r6aliser [ours
souhwts. ls ont a l'occasion releve les ralsons de ce regain dcInt4r6t pour les pibces
officielles.
Motivation
A l'tnstar des autres camerounais, les Pygm6es veulent se sentir citoyens libres et
reconnus, rejetant des traitements de favour devalonsants dont ils font souvent
lob)et. Its tiennent A posseder une carte nationale d'identte afln de jouir des droits,
des privil6ges et des services qu'une nation offre A sa populatlon; Le besoin de
poss6der une carte d'identite est egalement justifie par le fait qu'ils aimeraient avoir
I



la possibilite de se faire rendre justice lorsqu'ils sont frustr4s dans leur droits. A ces
motivations, il faut ajouter celles qui sont liees aux difficultes des voyages lors des
contr6les reguliers de police etlou de gendarmerie. Cette peur se justifle d'ailleurs
par le ran,onnement dont ils sont souvent victimes de la parte des agents vereux du
maintien de l'ordre. Pour toutes ces raisons, tous veulent obtenir ce prdcieux
document.
S'agissant des actes de naissance, les Pygmdes les r6clament A cor et A cri, surtout
pour les enfants. Ils ne veulent pas que leurs enfants se retrouvent dans la meme
situation qu'eux. Ayant compris l'importance de l'ecole. ils veulent que leurs enfants
soient scolaris6s. et ne souhaitent pas que leur scolarft6 soit compromise pour defaut
d'acte de naissance. A Bipindi par exemple, les premiers parents ont etd confront6s
au probibme de ce document officiel et n'ont pas pu continuer leurs 6tudes.
Beaucoup ont de ce fait interrompu leurs etudes au CMII.
Malgr6 leur bonne volonte & disposer des pikces officielles, les Pygm6es du Sud sont
confrontes A de nombreuses difficult6s au moment de se les faire 6tablir. En plus de
la complexite des proc6dures et des rapports tres souvent conflictuels avec les
voisins bantous, la contrainte majeure reste d'ordre financier. En effet, a Dpoum par
exemple, les Pygmres ont estime a pros de dix mille (10 000) francs CFA le cout de
l'etablissement de la carte nationale d'identit6 pour une personne, y compris les frais
de transport. Ce montant est loin d'Ctre A la portde de ces population extrOmement
demunies. De plus la proc6dure d'obtention des actes de naissance par jugement
suppl6tif est longue et ondreuse et donc dissuasive pour un milieu dont le taux
d'analphab6tisation d6passe 95 %.
II faut tout de mame reconna?tre que dans nos diff6rentes zones d'intervention des
actions sont men4es en collaboration avec les autorites locales en vue de faciliter la
d6livrance des pibces aux Pygm6es.
Los actions dC6A menees auprbs des autorltds locales
Dans la Province du Sud, que ce sait a Djoum, Lolodorf, Bipindi ou Kribi, beaucoup
d'actions positives ont 6t6 menees dans le but de faclilter la delivrance des actes de
niaissance et des cartes nationales d'identit6 aux Pygm6es. II est vrai que jusqu'& ce
iour ces actions sont encore timides en raison de la complexit6 des textes en la
natiere (ordonnance n 8102 du 29 juin 1981 relative & lacte de naissance et loi n
30/042 du 19 d6cembre 1999 relative A la carte d'identit4 nationale) et de leurs
)roc6dures longues, coOteuses et difflciles A mattriser surtout pour ce peuple encore
inalphabAte. A ce suiet. lors de la rencontre de Ooum, il soest clairement d6gagd
iue les actions menees. dans ces domaines auprAs des autorit6s municipales et.
idministratives locales ont 6t diffdrentes selon qu'on se trouve A Djoum, Lolodorf,
3ipindi ou Kribi.
ku niveau de Lolodorf
zour aider les Pygmees A obtenir une carte d'identit6 nationale, le magistrat
nunicipal en l'absence d'un acte de naissance qui donne droit a l'tabliferment d'un
Iertificat de nationalitd, delivre aux demandeurs, des cenificats de naissance dont le



coout s'eleve a 1 200 F CFA. Ces documents acceptds par les agents d'identification
permettent la d6livrance de la carte d'identite nationale. Malheureusement, ces
certificats de naissance qui ne peuvent remplacer juridiquement l'aote de naissance,
permattent pas aux enfants qui vont A l'ecole normalement de franchir le cap du
CM.II, puisque lors des examens et concours officiels, des copies certifiees conformes
A I'original de I'acte de naissance devront impbratlvement Atre versees aux dossiers.
De ce cte. des derogations speciales devraient etre prises pour permettre
l'etablissement des actes de naissance aux pygmbes.
Au niveau de Bipindi
Les autorites municipales et administratives comp6lentes ont formule le vceu de ne
menager aucun effort pour engager une action generale dans l'ensemble des
campements pour permettre a tous les Pygm6es d'avolr feurs pieces officielles.
Certes si la strategie et le calendrier de l'opdration restent a fixer, le contenu des
textes relatifs a l'etablissement des dites pieces risque de constituer un blocage au
moment de lour 6tablissement, si on venait A consideror les Pygm6es au meme titre
que les -autres Camerounais. L'interpr6tatlon et l'application A la lettre des textes
reglementaire r4gissant l'obtention des cartes d'identite nationals et des, actes de
naissance contribuent a marginaliser davantage les Pygm6es. Des ddrogations
speciales devraient Atre envisag6es pour cette categorie de populafton. Les autorit6s
competentes locales ont promis au Foyer Notre Dame de la Foret de Bipindi des
possibilit6s de simplification des proc6dures.
Au niveau de Dioum
Le magistrat municipal s'est engage a d6livrer de fagon exceptionnelle des actes de
naissance A tous les pygm6es qui en teralent la demande.
Toutes ces actions restent ponctuelles, et speclflques A chaque localite. De plus,
elles semblent no s'appuyer sur aucun texts offlciel. Ainsi, pour que l'actlon revete un
caractere officiel, provincial et mAme national, 1I serait souhaitable que des mesures
speciales soient prises par la plus haute autoritd de la province.
Nos doMdances
Excellence, Monsieur le Gouverneur, compte tenu de tout ce qui prAcbde, et sans
mettre en cause les textes r6glementaires existants, les organisations membres du
rgseau RACOPY, en favour des populations Pygmees de la provinoe du Sud,
sollicitent aupres de votre haute personnalite des mesures speciales autorisant les
autorit6s administratives et municipales locales & etablir les pl6ces officielles aux
populations autochtones minoritaires selon une procAdure. simpldife et A un coat
raisonnable. En effet, si on tient compte de la spIclfI'  eulturelle, sI I  . 
economique de ces peuples, Ia demarche actuelle aplcable A lenserrfWS du
territoire national pour l'obtention des documents officiels sollicites est trbs longue,
complexe et coOteuse pour eux. Des derogations sp4ciales en: leur faveur
permettraient A un grand nombre de Pygm6es de pouvoir disposer de ces pieces.qui
I~~~~~~



leur ouvriraient les portes de tous les droits reconnus a tous les hommes sans
discrimination aucune.
Nous nous engageons par la merne occasion a assurer un meilleur suivi des
naissances dans les campements pour la delivrance des actes de naissance afin que
les enfants qui naissent aujourd'hui ne se retrouvent pas dans la mAmie situation que
leurs parents et leurs aines.
Propositlon d'un. strategie
Nous, organismes d'appui, A notre niveau sommnes d4termines compte tenu de
l'urgence et de l'importance des documents officiels demandes, A sensibiliser,
appuyer, informer, accompagner le'nsemble des populations Pygmees avec lequel
nous travaillons dans la demarche off icielle de Ilobtention des actes de naissance et
cartes d'identite nationale, ceci en dtroite collaboration avec les autortes
administratives at municipales.
Du c6td des Pygm6es eux-memes, considerant leurs motivations 16gitimes. Us se
voient entiArement impliques dans le processus de la procuration des dits documents
off iciels: Leur participation se fera en espbces, soit en nature. Ne pouvant pas rester
insensibles aux doleances et motivations des Pygm6es, les responsables des
administrations de Bipindi ont opte pour une strat6gie simplieiXe pour permettre aux
Pygmees de leur arrondissement de poss6der leurs actes d'tat civil et cattes
d'identit6 nationale.
Cette strategie qui repond a une situation ponctuelle, mais necessaire et urgente
essaie de contoumer les difficuttes qu'impose l'application & la lettre des textes
relatifs A la carte d'identit6 nationale et & l'acte de naissance. Difflcuft6s quIprouvent
r6ellement les populations Pygm6es Baka, Bagyeli et Bakola de la Province du Sud
pour se faire delivrer ces papiers officiels. La methode en question se d6crlt de la
maniere sulvante.
a) Pour ce qui conceme le/ actes de naissance
1. L'autorit administrative en l'occurrence le Sous-Prefet ferait parapher les
registres d'acte de naissance par le Procureur de la Republique.
2. Une fois les registres paraph4s, une campagne de sensibUiqation seraHt men6e
aupres des populations concernees pour qu'elles se renckdtr l'h6pital renoontrer
le m6decin qui, aprAs consultation de chaque personne, d6ilvrerait un certificat
d'Age apparent. Ce document portera entre autres: les noms et pr6noms de
I'int6ress6, son Age. son sexe, son lieu de naissance, les noms de Ces paremts.
3. AprAs 6tablissement dtes certificats d Age apparent et des d6claratlons exactes
des tdmoins, le maire dresserait l'acte de naissance des demandeurs.
b) S'agissant de ia carte d1identite nationale
Pour allAger la procedure aux Pygm4es. l'autorit4 administrative de Bipindi a mis sur
pied une strategie leur evitant de se rendre au chef lieu du dopartement (Kribi) pour



se faire 6tablir le certificat de nationalite dont la proc6dure leur 6chappe. Et ne
possedant pas de carte nationale d'identite. ils risquent de se faire arreter au cours
des contr6les de police ou de gendarmerie. Pour leur 6viter ees d6sagr4ments, une
fois qu'ils ont l'acte de naissance, ils se rendralent tout simplement a la Sous-
Prefecture avec la piece en question, ou le Sous-Prefet leur signerait des copies.
Ces dernieres seraient remises aux agents dlidentification' qui procederaient F
I'tablissement des cartes didentite nationale pour chacun d'eux.
Les b6neficiaires devront neanmoins debourser la somme de 4 300 F CfA repartie de
la maniere suivante:
- 1 800 F CFA pour la photo scandrisable
- 1 500 F CFA pour le certificat de natlonalite
- .1 000 F CFA pour la taxe.
Toutefols, fort de notre experience at connaissant le pouvoir d'achat des Pygm6es,
cette somme de 4 300 F CFA est largement au-dessus de leurs possibilit6s
financi6res. La situation est d'autant plus preoccupante que le chef de famille devra
s'occuper de tous les autres membres adultes de la famille. Etant donn6
qu'actuellement, les produits de for#t qui leur procureralent un peu de revenus sont
en notte r6gression.
Face aux doleances, aux motivations des diflfrentes partie en pr6sence et aux
demandes de plus en plus pressantes exprim6es par les Pygmeos du Sud
Cameroun, dans le I6gitime but de se faire d6livrer les pieces offlcieles, nous no
saurlons rester insensibles. Une action de grande envergure devrait n6essairement
6tre engag6e au regard non seulement de la reconnaissance de lour Identit6
nationale, mais egalement pour leur permettre de jouir de tous les droits reconnus a
tout homme et par-lI& m6me d'exereer leur droit de vote lors des 6ch6ances
prochaines en s'inscrivant deja sur les llstes 6lectorales.
A cot effet, persuad6s de l'attention particuliere que vous accordez A ce peuple
minoritalre vulnerable, nous sommes convaincus, Excellence Monsieur le
Gouvemeur, que vous prendrez des mesures spdciales en favour des Pygm6os pour
permettre a vos collaborateurs locaux de d6llvrer aux demandeurs, les pibees
off Icieiles qu'ils sollicitent et n'arrivent pas facilement & obtenir.
Dans l'espoir qua notre m6rnorandum fera l'objet d'une attention. partcullbre, nous
vous prions d'agr6er, Excellence Monsieur le Gouvemour, en mame temps que nos
remerciements antIcip6s, l'expression de notre haute consideration.
Fait A Yaounde, le 08 octobre 2000
I   I  I   I   I   I  I   I



Les org3arisatjons sjgnataires de la Provfnpqjn,
'<'ew-  /z /t                     '-  **
CEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* *:PSD x,.
'Ipiwof,g NfSc
I 
sJr~ej "5arE   3$fjf2l4uA
4~~-w
\      .6~~
1.      ..       '.:..



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)     89
Annex 7
Abbreviations and dictionary
I



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  90
ABREVIATIONS & SIGLES
A.1.D              Appui aux Initiatives de Developpement
ADPIC              Accord sur les aspects des droits de propriete intellectuelle qui
touchent au commerce.
AFD                Agence Fran9aise de Developpement
AGROCOM            Agriculture Agro-Industrie et Communication
APICA              Association pour la Promotion des Initiatives Communautaires
APL                Adaptable Program Lending Credit
APNV               Approche Participative au Niveau Village
AsA                Accord sur l'agriculture
ASPPA              Appui aux Strategies Paysannes et a la Professionnalisation de
I' Agriculture
ASSOBACAM          Association Bananiere du Cameroun
AVZ                Agent de Vulgarisation de Zone
BAD                Banque Africaine de Developpement
BM                 Banque mondiale
CAA                Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAC                Centimes Additionnels Communaux
CAMCCUL            Cameroon Cooperative Credit Union League.
CAMSUCO            Cameroon Sugar Company
CANADEL            Centre d'Accompagnement de Nouvelles Altematives de
Developpement Local
CAPA               Cellule d'Appui a la Politique Agricole
CARBAP             Centre Africain de Recherches sur Bananiers et Plantains (ex
CRBP)
CAV                Comite d'Actions Villageois
CC                 Comite de Concertation de Base
CDC                Cameroon Development Corporation
CDC                Comite de Developpement Communal
CEAC               Centre d'Education et d'Actions Communautaires
CEMAC              Communaute Economique et Monetaire de l'Afrique Centrale
CENEEMA            Centre d'Etude et d'Experimentation du Machinisme Agricole
CER                Centre d'Education Rurale
CFR                Centre de Formation Rurale
CIAT               Centre International de l'Agriculture Tropicale
CICC               Comite Interprofessionnel cafe cacao
CIPCRE             Cercle International pour la Promotion et la Creation
CIRAD-SAR          Centre de Cooperation Intemationale en Recherche
Agronomique pour le Developpement - Departement des
Systemes Agro-alimentaire et Ruraux
CNC                Cellule Nationale de coordination
CNLS               Comite National de Lutte contre le Sida
CNP                Comite National de Pilotage



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  91
CNPP                Comite National Paritaire de Pilotage
CNRCIP             Cameroon National Root Crops Improvement Program
COOPEC              Cooperative d'Epargne et de Cr6dit
CORCAM              Confed6ration des Organisations Rurales au Cameroun
CPASNC             Comite Paritaire d'Approbation et de Supervision de Niveau
Communal
CPP                Cellule Provinciale du Programme
CPPS                Comite Paritaire Provincial de Suivi
CRA                College Regional d'Agriculture
CRTV               Cameroon Radio and Television office
CVECA              Caisses Villageoises d'Epargne et de Credit Autogerees
DAO                 Dossier d'Appel d'Offre
DEPA               Division des Etudes et des Projets Agricoles
DFID               Department for International Development
DGRDC              Direction de Genie Rural et de Developpement Communautaire
DPA                Direction de la Production Agricole
DPGT               Projet de Developpement Paysannal et de Gestion des Terroirs
DSCN               Direction de la Statistique et de la Comptabilit6 Nationale.
DSDSR              Document de Strategie de Developpement du Secteur Rural
DSRP               Document de Strategie de Reduction de la Pauvrete
ECAM                Enquete Camerounaise Aupres des M6nages
ENIR                Ecole Nationale des Instituteurs Ruraux
ENSA                Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronomique
ENSIAAC             Ecole Nationale Superieure des Industries Agroalimentaires du
Cameroun
FADCR               Fonds d'Appui au Developpement des Communautes Rurales
FAO                Food & Agriculture Organization
FASA               Faculte Agronomique et des Sciences Agricoles
FDCPPROMEX          Food Crop Producers Processors and Marketing Experts
FEICOM              Fonds special d'Equipement et d'Intervention intercommunale
FIDA                Fonds International pour le Developpement Agricole
FIMAC               Fonds d'Investissement de Micro-Realisations Agricoles et
Communautaire
FONDAOR             Fonds national d'Appui aux Organisations Rurales
FRPC                Facilite pour la Reduction de la Pauvrete et la Croissance
GIC                Groupe d'Initiative Commune
GICA                Groupe d'Initiative Commune Agricole
GTZ                 Cooperation Technique Allemande
HEVECAM             Hevea du Cameroun
HIMO                Haute Intensite en Main d'CEuvre
IBW                 Institutions de Bretton Woods
IDA                International Development Association
IDH                 Indice de Developpement Humain
IITA                International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IMF                 Institution de Micro-Finance



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  92
INADES              Institut Africain pour le Developpement Economique et Social
IPH                 Indice de Pauvrete Humaine
IRAD     -          Institut de Recherche Agronomique et du Developpement
LAN                 Local Area Network
MC2                 Mutuelle Communautaire de Croissance
MEG                 Medicaments Essentiels Generiques
MIDENO              Mission de Developpement du Nord-Ouest
MINAGRI             Ministere de 1'Agriculture
MINAS               Ministere des Affaires Sociales
MINAT               Ministere de l'Administration Territoriale
MINCOF              Ministere de la Condition Feminine
MINDIC              Ministere du Developpement Industriel et Commercial
MINEF               Ministere de l'Environnement et des Forets
MINEFI              Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
MINEPIA             Ministere de l'Elevage des Peches et des Industries Animales
MINMEE              Ministere des Mines, Eau et Energie
MINEPAT             Ministere des Affaires Economiques, de la Programmation et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire
MINSANTE            Ministere de la Sante Publique
MINREST             Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
MINTOUR             Ministere du Tourisme
MINTP               Ministere des Travaux Publics
MINTRANSPORT        Ministere des Transports
NPA                -Nouvelle Politique Agricole
ONADEF              Office National de Developpement des Forets
ONCC                Office National de Cafe Cacao
ONG                 Organisation non Gouvernementale
ONVC                Ordre National des Veterinaires Camerounais
OPA                 Organisation Professionnelle Agricole
OPCC                Organisation des Producteurs de Coton du Cameroun
OTC                 Obstacles Techniques au Commerce (Accord sur les)
PAAOB               Projet 'Appui a l'Auto promotion des Initiatives de base et des
Groupements de Soutien'
PAAR                Projet d'Appui a l'Auto promotion Rurale
PADC                Projet d'Appui au Developpement Communautaire
PAIDER              Programme d'Appui a la Decentralisation de l'Entretien Routier
PAPLO               Programme d'Appui aux populations de Lagdo
PAPT                Projet de Developpement de la Plaine Tikar
PARFR               Programme d'Amelioration du Revenu Familial Rural
PAV                 Plan d'Action Villageois
PCRD                Projet Credit Rural Decentralise
PDBB                Programme de Developpement du Bassin de la B6noue
PDC                 Plan de Developpement Communal
PDRM                Projet de Developpement de la R6gion des Monts Mandara
PDRP - L & C -      Projet de Developpement Rural Participatif dans le Departement



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  93
du Logone et Chari
PFNL               Produits forestiers non ligneux
PGPA               Projet de Promotion des Producteurs Agricoles dans la Province
du Centre
PIB                Produit Interieur Brut
PMLS               Programme Multi-sectoriel de Lutte contre le Sida
PNDP               Programme National de Developpement Participatif
PNUD               Programme des Nations Unies pour le D6veloppement
PNVRA              Programme National de Vulgarisation et de Recherche Agricole
PPDR               Projet P6le de Developpement Rural
PPE                Pret Programme Evolutif
PPTE               Pays Pauvres Tres Endettes
PRASAC             P6le de Recherche Appliquee au Developpement des Savanes
d'Afrique Centrale
PSSA               Projet Special de Securit6 Alimentaire
PST                Plan Sectoriel des Transports
RDC                Republique Democratique du Congo
RNC                Radio Nationale Camerounaise
SAILD              Service d'Appui aux Initiatives Locales de Developpement
SBM                Societe Bananeraie de la Mbome
SEMRY              Societe d'Expansion de Modernisation de la Riziculture de
Yagoua
SFD                Systemes Financiers Decentralises
SIFAC              Syndicat Interprofessionnel de la Filiere Avicole Camerounaise.
SNRA               Systeme National de la Recherche Agricole
SNV                Service Neerlandais de Volontariat.
SOCAPALM           Societe Camerounaise des Palmeraies
SODECOTON          Societe de Developpement du Coton.
SOWEDA             South West Development Authorithy
SPNP               Societ6 des Plantations Nouvelles de Penja
SPS                Accord sur l'application des mesures sanitaires et
phytosanitaires.
UE                 Union Europeenne
UFA                Unites Forestieres d'Amenagement
UNVDA.             Upper Noun Valley Development Authority
UP                 Unite de production
UPAC               Union phytosanitaire d'Afrique Centrale



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  94
LEXIQUE                                                   Dictionary
Fran ais                                                          En2lish
Province / Region Entite administrative creee lors de la reforme  Province
constitutionnelle de 1972 place sous l'autorite d'un
Gouvemeur. Le Cameroun en compte actuellement 10.
Une loi en preparation prevoit l'installation au niveau
des provinces de gouvernements regionaux
decentralises.
Departement      Entite administrative a l'interieur de la province et  Division
placee sous l'autorite d'un prefet. II y en a 58 au
Cameroun.
Arrondissement   In rural areas subdivisions and rural councils are  Subdivision
covering the same territory
Commune          Collectivite territoriale decentralisee. II existe au  Council
Cameroun 339 institutions communales parmi
lesquelles 336 communes.
Lamidat / Canton Entite de l'autoritE traditionnelle dont les contours ne  Customary
recoupent pas obligatoirement ceux de la commune,  court area
place sous l'autorit6 d'un chef de premier ou deuxieme
degre.
Village          Petite agglomeration rurale, parfois associee A des  Village
hameaux ou campements sur un terroir commun place
sous l'autorite d'un chef traditionnel de troisieme degre.
Plusieurs villages peuvent se trouver dans une
commune. Le nombre de villages est estime A 13.000
pour l'ensemble du Cameroun.
Communaute       Groupe de personnes qui se reconnaissent quelque  Community
chose en commun, le plus souvent un passe, une
culture, un territoire, des ressources, des contraintes, et
un avenir ou des aspirations communs. Cette entite,
compte tenu dc la diversite du Cameroun, correspondra
dans certaines regions au village, mais peut avoir
ailleurs une autre realite.
Beneficiaires    Fait reference aux communes, aux communautes et aux  Beneficiaries
prestataires auxquels s'adressent directement les micro-
projets et les activites de renforcement finances par le
programme.
Developpement    Approche de developpement participatif niveau   Participatory
participatif     communal et communaute a la base.               development
Prestataires de  Ils executent les services pour lesquels ils ont et  Service provider
services         selectionnes et sont lies au Programme par contrat.
Seront consideres comme prestataires potentiels les
organisations A but non lucratif de type ONG
(nationales ou internationales implantees au Cameroun),
les bureaux prives et les consortiums d'organismes.  _ _I_     I
Comite de        Entit6 representative d'une communaute mise en place  Community
Concertation a  Ia  a l'issue d'une phase de sensibilisation et d'animation  development



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  95
Base             au niveau des villages. II a pour mandat de representer  committee
la communaute et de conduire l'elaboration et la mise
en ceuvre du Plan de Developpement Communautaire.
Comite Paritaire  Comite constitue a parite des representants de l'Etat,  Communal
d'Approbation et des representants des beneficiaires et des representants  committee for
de Supervision de des elus communaux. 11 a pour mandat d'approuver les  approval and
Niveau           micro-projets soumis par les communautes et de  supervision
Communal         superviser leur ex6cution.
Comit6 Paritaire  Comite constitue a parite de repr6sentants de l'Etat et  Provincial
d'Approbation et de maires choisis par les maires de la Province. II a pour committee for
de Supervision de mandat d'approuver les micro-projets soumis par les  approval and
Niveau Provincial communes et de superviser leur execution.      supervision
Cellule          Chaque Cellule est en fait une antenne legere    Project
Provinciale du   provinciale du Programme. Elle permet d'agir    coordinatuon
Programme        directement en collaboration avec les acteurs locaux et  unit on
couvre tous les departements d'une meme province.  provincial level
Comite National  Designe l'organe d'orientation des activites du  National
de Pilotage      Programme. La composition et les fonctions du Comite  steering
National de Pilotage (CNP) devront faire l'objet d'un  committee
arrete ou decret.
Cellule Nationale  Designe l'organe de coordination, de communication,  Project
du Programme     de suivi-evaluation, de gestion et d'administration du  coordination
Programme . Elle est composee d'experts et de   unit
specialistes des questions de developpement et de
gestion. Elle a la responsabilit6 de la mise en ccuvre des
composantes et des activit6s prevues.
Plan d' Action   II est le r6sultat de la planification a la base et du  Village action
Villageols       diagnostic participatif fait au niveau du village.  plans
Plan de          II est le resultat de la planification au niveau de la  Community
developpement de commune.                                        development
communal                                                         plans
Planification a la  Decrit le processus par lequel les populations identifient Planning at
base             elles-memes leurs problemes et besoins puis les classent grassroots level
par ordre de priorite.
Micro-projet     Designe l'activite (et ses sous-activites) financee par le  Micro projects
fonds du PNDP; la realisation du micro-projet est
consecutive a la signature d'une convention de
cofinancement.



Indigenous peoplc development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)     96
Annex 8
Workshop Report



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  97
Atelier de restitution du Plan de D6veloppement des Peuples Pygm6es
dans le cadre du Programme National de DMveloppement Participatif.
Elisabeth Fuda (Facilitatrice)
Le 07 avril 2003, A la salle de Conference du Ministere des Affaires Economiques, de la
Programmation et de l'Amenagement du Territoire (MINEPAT) s'est d&roulee la restitution
du plan de developpement des peuples indigenes (pygmees) dans le cadre du Programme
National de Developpement Participatif (PNDP). Cette etude avait e  r6alisee par le
Docteur Kai Schmidt-Soltau, Consultant independant, et commanditee par la Banque
Mondiale et le MINEPAT.
Quelques acteurs et beneficiaires potentiels de ce programme etaient represent6s A cette
s6ance de restitution facilit6e par Elisabeth Fouda de l'INADES - Formation Cameroun.
Les principaux points suivants etaient A l'ordre du jour:
-  Presentation des participants
-  Introduction sur le PNDP
* Presentation de l1'tude et du plan de devel6ppement des populations pygmees.
-  Discussion / recommandations.
Apres le mot de bienvenue prononce par Madame Ngah Marie Madeleine, Coordinatrice de
la Cellule Nationale du PNDP, les participants ont beneficie d'une breve introduction sur le
PNDP. En effet, le PNDP emane d'une volonte du gouvernement appuye par les bailleurs
de fonds A ameliorer les conditions de vie des populations A la base. C'est une expression
des besoins locaux, coest un processus participatif. C'est un espace de planification A la base.
Les principaux beneficiaires sont de ce fait des communautes et des communes. Le PNDP
couvre une periode de 12 ans repartie en 4 phases.
En dehors des appuis preconises par ce programme, un aspect suivi/6valuation est
egalement envisage.
A cet effet, un manuel d'execution est en cours d'elaboration. Dans cet ordre d'idee, une
etude d'impact sociologique a e  realisee pour une prise en compte particuliere des
populations pygm6es du Cameroun dans le cadre du PNDP.
Le consultant a ensuite present6 le contexte d'elaboration de l'etude d'impact. En ce qui
conceme l'analyse du contexte d'evolution des populations pygmees, plusieurs risques ont
e  releves du point de vue legal, technique, financier, organisationnel et culturel. Pour les
minimiser, un plan de developpement des peuples pygmees a e  propose ainsi qu'un
organigramme pour la mise en cruvre du Plan de Developpement des Populations Pygmees
dans le cadre du PNDP.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  98
Cette presentation a ete suivie des discussions sur la faisabilite et l'opportunite de certaines
activites proposees dans le plan de developpement des peuples pygmees et sur le montage
de l'organigramme de mise en aeuvre.
Quelques recommandations ont e  ensuite formul6es A la suite de ces discussions.
11 a ete reconnu que le plan de developpement des populations Baka, Aka, Bakola propose a
effectivement pris en compte le probleme fondamental des populations marginales A savoir
la reconnaissance citoyenne. Mais il serait necessaire de:
- effectuer un travail complementaire de recueil de desiderata des populations;
- prevoir egalement des appuis en direction des Bantou;
-  approfondir certains aspects;
- faire le discernement en ce qui concerne le travail A effectuer sur les plans juridique,
administratif et politique;
- integrer les autres intervenants sectoriels dans la mise en ccuvre du plan de
developpement des peuples pygmees;
- mieux expliciter l'organigramme propose;
- introduire une collaboration avec la societe civile, A travers l'identification des acteurs
reels'sur le terrain;
-  mettre egalement un accent sur I'acces des populations pygm6es A la citoyennete de
maniere globale (acces A toutes les pieces officielles);
- degager les zones d'interface Baka, Bagyeli, Aka/Bantou.
Monsieur Atsiga Essala, charge des populations marginales au MINAS a egalement
propose de mettre par ecrit d'autres remarques et propositions avant la finalisation du
document.
Commence A 9h30, I'atelier de restitution du plan de developpement des peuples pygmees a
pris fin A 12h30 par les remerciements de Madame Ngah et du Consultant A tous ceux qui
ont participe A cette seance de travail.
PJ: Liste des participants.



MINISTERE DES AFFAIRES ECONOMIQUES               REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN
DE LA PROGRAMMATION                             Paix - Travail - Patrie
ET DE L'AMENAGEMENT DU TERRITOIRE
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
DIVISION DE LA PLANIFICATION                     Yaounde, le 4 Avril 2003
ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT
CELLULE DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE
DEVELOPPEMENT PARTICIPATIF
/ / / Dlpj_Q03 _5MINEPAT/SG/DPD/CDR
LA COORDONNATRICE,
QOe_L: Atelier de restitution du pIan de
d6veloppement des peuples pygm6es
(IPDP) dans le cadre du PNDP.
Monsieur,
J'ai l'honneur de vous inviter a l'atelier de restitution de l'elaboration d'un plan de
d6veloppement de la population pygm6es (IPDP). II s'agit de restituer une etude commanditie
par la Banque Mondiale et le MINEPAT.
Ladite restitution aura lieu le lundi 7 avril 2003 dans la isae de conf6rence du
MINEPAT A partir de 9 heures pr6cises. L'objectif ici reste celui d'dchanger sur le plan
propose et ensuite de faire des recommandations et autres amendements qui devront etre
int6gr4s dans le document final. L'stelier sera fiacilit6 par Mne Elisabeth FOUDA et l'ordre
du jour propose est le suivant:
1. Presentation des participants
2. Introduction sur le PNDP-
3. Presentation de I'ttude et du plan de developpement propose
* Pause cafE/the
4. Dscussions l recommandations
5. Fin des travaux
La Coordo                        e du PNDP
Mrne NGA'       I    le  iw



REPUBUQUE DU CAMEROUN                                        REPUBUC OF CAMEROON
P-      -paue-Wl -W* - Fat0tiand
MINEPAT                                                      MINEPAT
PNDP                                                         PNDP
LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS A L'ATEUER DE RESTITUTION DE IPDP DE LA PNDP
07 avri 2003 a -Yaounde              .
Adresse
N Nom et Pr6nom  Organisaflon/Fonctton                                Signatures
Vile, bcOte  T6iephone   Email
3o gfv,Of  lbp      *F  .-.                   9 I '  __COW  __  _  -__-
4.    amgsA            .            _ _   _ _   _   _                  __
8-.      .1 AEb
9. t;?f<:A4/X@L<_
I 0.     ,kMs                        phE 
11. W!;4klall * lstAne P t _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __S_ _ _'  C   \



13.  M Zow oJ:  Gc/,44  ,bDijiA  I Ye Z    v57 b& 4o9 8  e________
14.
1 5.  l 1 A p E~ i 1 J~ La IAn   V   P            & fw7  4 P U_   _37  b
14.        >      /         n% 03g4   ,  .   9^3>4i{de c!4,
i.                pf                      Af 1S  3 11.: 4-Q nSwe ; 
16. QYO!rr4
19.                                                              .   -
20.
IE



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)    101
Annex 9
Plan de developpement des peuples pygmees



*                     ~~~~~~~Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)  102
I



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                  103
Plan de diveloppement desuples indigenes (pygmees = PP) - Sujets identifies et mesures proposees
Su0et                    ActivitR                    Resdonsable       0uand              Budget/ Co0Ltss bldicateurd
0.  Renforcement   des     FoTmation des cadres     Consultant         12V2004            USD 20" s                    Les beneficiaires des
capacites concemant le   concemes de MINAS et                                                                        formations sont aptes a
OD 4.20 et les IPDPs     MINEPAT, des ONGs et                                                                        mettre en oeuvre le IPDP
des associations des                                                                       dans le cadre du PNPD
populations pygmees(PP)
Etablir des opportunites lIgales kgales
1. Etablir des conditions  Sensibilisation de tous  MINAS             12/2004             USD   10k                    Les rapports de
cadres legales pour des   les concernes                                                                              discrimination sont en
PPs: Faciliter l'acces                                                                                               baisse
de  PPs   aux  cartes     Recensement              MINAS & ONGs     3/2005              USD    1 Ok                  Une base des donnees
d'identite                                         M1NAT                                                             existe et les informations
sont cornmuniquees aux
PPs
Faciliter l'acces aux                      6/2005              USD 150k PNDP               Au moins 90 % des PPs
cartes d'identites a des                                       USD 150k MINAT              possedent des carnes
frais subventionnes                                                                        d'identite
2. Etablir des conditions  Sensibilisation de tous   Voir I           Voir I              Voir I                    Voir I
cadres legales pour des   les concemrs
campements des PPs:       Organiser des            Associations des  12/2004            USD 10k                      Pas de rapports negatifs
Certifier les villages et  assemblees constitutives  PPs                                                             par rapport aux elections
campements des PPs        locales dans toutes les
comme des                 communautes et
communaut6s              campements et appuyer
reconnues eligibles au    la mise en place des
PNDP.                     Comites de Concertation
a la base.
Processus de legalisation  PNDP            Pour les communes                            *  Toutes des
pilote 12/2004                                  communautes/
Pour les autres                                 campements IP disposent
communes 12/2007                                des comite de
concertation.



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                              104
Plan de developpement des peuples indigMnes (py, -mes = PP) - Suj,ts identiflis et mesures proposees
Suiet                  Activit6                   Responsable      Quand              Budget/ CoUtsl           Indicateurs
3. Etablir des forets     Sensibilisation de tous  Voir I          Voir I             Voir I                   Voir I
communautaires ou       les concernes
des zones de chasse     lnventaire, demarcation  MINEF & ONGs    Pour les region    USD 900km                   Les donnees existent et
traditionnelles         et etablissement des                     pilot 6/2005                                   sont accessibles A travers
reserv&es aux           plans de gestion                         Pour le autres                                 un syst6me SIG
communautes/                                                      12/2007
campements PPs          Les forets              MINEF            Pour les region                                Les revenues des ventes
comnmunautaires et/ou                    pilot 12/2005                                 des ressources naturelles
des zones de chasse ont                  Pour les autres                               augmentent et la
dti certifides                           6/2008                                        degradation de la
biodiversite dans les
forets communautaires
baisse (informations du
systeme de suivi)
Eta lir des oppo,rtunits techniques egales_
4. Appuyer les PPs dans  *  Organiser des formations  PNDP         6/2004             USD 10k PNDP
I'elaboration des Plans  pour les prestataires de                                   USD 10k, SP
de 1Developpement       setrvice
Local                a  Elaborer des Plans de   Prestataires de   10 en 2004        USD 855k PNDP"           Au moins 50 % des Plans de
Developpement Local     service          50 en 2005         USD 45k villages des PP    Developpement Local
60 par ans entre                            recoivent un financement
2006 et 2009                                pour leur mise en ceuvre



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                               105
Plan de de'veloppement des peuples indigenes (py mies - PP) - Sujets identifes et mesures proposees
Sujet                   Activite                   Responsable      Quand              Budget/ Couits'          Indicateurs
5. Assister les PPs dans *  Sensibilisation de tous  Voir I         Voir I             Voir I                   Voir I
la participation active  les concemes
de  l'61aboration  des .  Faciliter la participation  MINEPAT &   Continu                                     11 n'y a plus de rapports qui
plans             de     des PPs dans les        MINAS                                                         demontrent des incidences
developpement            processus de prise de                                                                 de discrimination
communaux                decision,
a Assurer la representation
des PPs dans les Comites
Paritaires d'Approbation
et de Supervision
Communal (CPAC)
Etablir des opportunites financieres e ales
6. Offrir aux PPs l'acces  b  Etablir des donnees de  MINAS &       6/2004 (a          USD 10k                  La base des donnees est
aux microprojets         base                    ONGs             coordonner avec                              fonctionnelle et utilisee par
(AFDCR) a des frais                                               activite 1.2.)                              le PNDP
subventionnes (1/3   .   Mettre a la disposition  MINEPAT         Continu            USD 48kv
des conditions           des fonds
normales)
7. Offrir des programmes *  Etablir des donnees de  MINAS           6/2004             USD 10k
specifiques aux PPs      base concemant les
pour qu'ils puissent     domaines de formations
beneficier des           sollicites et concernant
opportunites d'emploi    des opportunites
crees dans le cadre du   d'emploi
PNDP (maitres,       D   Pr6voir une remuneration  MINAS          Debut: 7/04         USD 600kv'               Un nombre augmentant des
professeurs ou           adequate du travail.                      Continu                                     ecoles et des centres de
infirmieres, tacherons,                                                                                        santes dans les villages des
macons etc.)                                                                                                   PPs - Embauche des PPs
Etablir des opportunites organisationnelles egales
8. Appuyer les PPs dans    Organiser des formations  MINAS, ONGs,   Debut: 1/2004      USD 1Ok""               Augmentation des PPs a des
le processus de prise                            Association des  Continu                                      postes de prise de d6cision



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Camneroon - Final Report (June 2003)                             106
Plan de diveloppement des peuples indigMnes (pygmdes = PP) - Suj      dts ieniifies et mesures proposees
Sujet                   Activiti                  Responsable      Quand              Budget/ CoOtsi           lndicateun
de decision                                     PPs                                                          au niveau local.
9. Proposer/ organiser    Organiser des formations  MINAS, ONGs    Debut 1/2004       USD 50k'                 Plus PPs avec des positions
des  formations  en                                              Continu                                     dans la commune ou
communication                                                                                                travaillant conmue cadres de
interculturelle pour les                                                                                     I'Etat
fonctionnaires    et
cadres de l'Etat et pour
les        conseillers
municipaux travaillant
avec les PPs
10. Assister les          Sensibilisation des PPs  Association des  6/2004            USD 10k
Communautes             concernes               PPs MINAS
Pygmees a etablir des  a  Faciliter des elections de             9/2004
structures              representants
independantes a      *  Faciliter la mise en place  MINAS,       Niveau des                                  Les PP perroivent et
plusieurs niveaux pour  des comites (33 au      Association des  communes 9/04                               utilisent les comites comme
la coordination, la     niveau des communes, 2  PPs, ONGs        Niveau regional et                          des entites representatives
facilitation et la      au niveau regional      nationales et    national 12/04
communication des       (centre sud = 1) et I au  intemationales
activites mentionnees   niveau national
ci-dessus                                                         _
I1. Inclure des       *   Sensibilisation de tous  Voir I          Voir I             Voir I                   Voir I
representants des PPs   les concemes
dans les differents  a  Election des            Voir 10.2        Voir 10.2          Voir 10.2                Voir 10.2
comites du PNDP         representants
a   Offrir/ Garantir la     MINEPAT          A partir du moment                         Les PPs sont representes
participation des PPs                    ou les structures                           dans tous le comites
dans tous les comites                    seront form&es                              importants et participent



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                 107
Plan d   dedveloppement des peuples indigines (pygmees =PP) - Sujets identifles et mesures proposees
Sujet                   Activite                    Responsable      Quand               Budget/ Costsi           Indicateurs
importants de PNDP                                                                     activement au travail dans
ces comites.
12. Etablir un system de  *  Sensibilisation des PPs  Voir 10        Voir 10             Voir 10
suivi participatif pour  *  Formation sur la      Consultant       Entre 1/05 et 4/05  USD 10k                  La base des donnees est
le IPDP du PNDP          methodologie des                                                                       accessible et perSue par la
recherches quantitatives                                                               section suivi evaluation du
et sur la gestion des                                                                  PNDP M&E comme un
bases de donnees                                                                       outil important
*   Realiser le suivi       Comites           Debut: 6/05        USD 360 k'                Les rapports de suivi
participatif             mentionn6s en    Continu                                      participatif sont utilises pour
10                                                            les adaptations necessaires
Evaluer le IPDP tous les  Consultants     Debut: 9/OS                                  et pour documenter que le
deux ans                                  Continu             USD 100 k'               niveau de pauvret6 dans les
villages des PPs est egal ou
moins par rapport au moyen
national
Etablir des oppornites culturelles e ales
13. Sensibiliser les PPs   Sensibilisation des PPs  Voir 10          Voir 10             Voir 10                  Voir 10
sur les nsques des
processus et des
mesures de
developpement
14. Appuyer les            Offrir des formations    MINAS, ONGs      3/2004              USD 15k                  Les associations des PPs
associations des PP en   pour am6liorer les                                                                     sont pergues comme des
renforcant leurs         capacites                                                                              representants de la
capacites pour qu'elles  organisationnelles,                                                                    population PP et deviennent
puissent sauvegarder     techniques et financieres                                                              de plus en plus actives a
leurs savoir-faire, leur  des Associations des PPs                                                              tous les niveaux (PNDP,
culture et leurs      *  Realiser des activites de  Associations des  Debut: 1/2004    USD 300k'                comites, politiques
strategies de survie     sensibilisation dans les  PPs             Continu                                      nationales)
______________________ [    villages_des_PPs        _                 ____



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                               108
Plan de deve(oppement des peup ls indigenes (Fygmes = PP) -            uidentiV   is et mesures propos&s
Sujet                   Activit6                   Respons2ble      Quand              Budget/ CoOits'          Indicateurs
15. Faciliter la creation et *  Sensibilisation des PPs  MINAS      6/2004             5k                       Le suivi participatif et des
le fonctionnement des  *  Faciliter la creation des  MINAS        12/2004                                     autres rapports documentes
fora de la              fora                                                                                  sur I augmnentation des
communication et de  *   Faciliter le fonction-  MINAS            Continu                                     contacts et des activit6s des
discussion de la PP      nement de ces fora                                                                    PP avec d autres groupes
avec d'outres groupes                                                                                          ethniques
ethniques dans des
regions differentes



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)                                109
Description des etapes et circuits de mise en euvre du Plan de Developpement des Peuples Pygmies IPDP dans le cadre du PNDP
Nvationotil        Administration du PNDP                    Dautres structures impliquies            IPDP structure                       Ligende
Comnit6 Nationial IPDP
-I MINEPAT/ I MINAS/ I                                                         L Envoyer des rep6sentants
national (RACOPYY 2
2j~j      '                                                     - ,Associations PP (ASBAK +              Donner des conseils directeent
~n       atii                    Renre~en                                           CODEBABIK) qu--- deco  Sous d6partement  populations  ..  repr6senots (I du
_mar'enrcsenalii.v.ed _e _  Sud/Centre 3 de l'Est)         Enyoyerdesrep6sentantstls
,                  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ...   ..r S.  .tPPi< . ..... ................. ...  .............._.__.............. . ...... \__. __.-._.3-- ---_--,--
,ommie dgPai    ,ea  n                               - --_-ol  :  - - - --- - -----.- ---- .   - .............  -...
. . . . ............. ................lnSernatiionalip       n  in bO   n
._              \_          _      _      __..                                                 exPenOiPon m d'nenpict3eI.
Province                                        -___  ___  __       -. ,                                                                  p    .  _
-t      ' -                                         Ddigaion Provinciale de  Comnitc Provincial Comitt
EED ;bm          .l}m  *-- -  - *-  p     .. -.*            J              >    I PNDP/ I MINAS/ 2
ONGst 4 Assoiations des
Departemre/ltt/1
Arrondisse                                                                      __mite-sTdes (o-seipr     Cornitts des conseils nunic.
meut/l            f E      tlB                                                                         I MINAS/ I consciller/ I repr6sentant
Comm,a,nes       cm   O a                    .l.......          . g  . --  - - -.--.-... ...  -         de 'arrondissetnent/ I ONG/ 4 PP
-  --- -                       ......        ......                                           T _   _   ,   I ---------------------------
V'illage                    "tde developmeg"u vilagel                                                   Comit6s des Villages
Population                           Organisaion des PP



Indigenous people development plan PNDP Cameroon - Final Report (June 2003)       101
The budget is based on the assumption that in Cameroon 30,000 Baka, Kola and Aka are living in around
300 settlements, which are located in 33 subdivisions (arrondissement) in three provinces (south, centre and
east).
USD Ik = USD 1000 = FCFA 660,000
It is estimated that the elaboration of the documents, which are required to apply for the establishment of a
community forest, costs for each village at least USD 3k. This activity has been started in some of the PNDP pilot
councils, with IP population, but according to the implementing agency (SNV) its financing (GEF) is not clear.
Due to that the entire activity for all settlements is budgeted here (2003 = 10 settlements, 2004 - 30, 2005 = 60,
2006 = 100, 2007 = 100).
It is assumed that the elaboration of a single village action plan costs USD 3k of which the PNDP finances
95 % and the village 5 %.
It is assumed that 80 % of the USD 120,000k are used for AFDCR (ERM 2003a). It is assumed that the IPs
(30,000) constitute around 0.5% of the rural population (50% of the 12 Mill. Cameroonians). If the PNDP
money is provided according to the per head distribution, the AP population would apply for project funding
of - USD 480k. The IPs are - as all bodies applying for ADDCR funding - expected to contribute between 5
and 25% = - 72 k (15 %), According to the recommendation of the IPDP should IP villages receive funding
at subsidised prices (at 33 % of the normal contributing). This would mean that the IP villages contribute 24
k (or 5 % of the expected project value of 480 k) and the PNDP 48 k. For the budgeting it is presumed that
from 2004 8 k should be provided p.a., which would result in a termination of this activity in 2009. If the
PNPD is fulfilling expectation, it could bc expected that by 2009, the IP villages do no longer need these
subsidies.
The PNDP should provide each year funding for 30 teachers and 30 health personal. A scholarship is
estimated with USD Ik per person = 60 k p.a. The training should last for ten years to provide one teacher
and one health personal for each of the 300 AP villages.
I" 1Ok p.a. for a 10 year period.
Vtt S k p.a. (- USD 150 per subdivision p.a.) for a 10 year period.
i The costs of the PIM are estimated to be USD Ik p.a. per committee = 36 k p.a. and is estimated to be
necessary at least for 10 years.
The costs are estimated on the premises that a single evaluation costs will cost around 20 k (2 consultants, I
PNDP and one IPDP representative) and that the there will be evaluations in 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013.
It is estimated that the IP associations should visit each village twice a year and that each of the 600 visits
will cost around USD 50 = 30 k p.a.. The sensitisation should continue for at least 10 years.



I



