Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/12/2006 
Report No.:  AC2075
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Cameroon 
Project ID:  P073629 
Project Name:  CM-Community Development Program Support Project 
Task Team Leader:  Ousmane Seck 
GEF Focal Area: L-Land degradation 
Global Supplemental ID: P089289 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 23, 2003 
Estimated Board Date: March 18, 2004 
Managing Unit:  AFTS3 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (35%);Primary education (20%);Central government 
administration (15%);Roads and highways (15%);Health (15%) 
Theme:  Participation and civic engagement (P);Rural services and infrastructure 
(P);Municipal governance and institution building (P);Decentralization (S);Indigenous 
peoples (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
5.30 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.07 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.63
0.70 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project’s development objective is to enable communities to contribute to reduce and 
prevent land degradation in critical areas. This will be achieved through the adoption of 
SLM practices and development of adequate capacity, tools, and mechanisms for 
communities. The project will contribute to reconciling the short-term objective of 
increased land productivity with long-term local, national, provincial, and global 
environmental objectives.  
 
The project’s global environmental objective is to improve the well functioningof 
ecosystems by integrating SLM into local development and by decreasing biodiversity 
loss in fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral areas. As a result of GEF interventions, the project will 
contribute to rehabilitating degraded lands and curbing further degradation, reducing soil 
erosion, stabilizing sediment storage and release in critical trans-boundary water bodies 
such as Lake Chad and the Gulf of Guinea, and increasing vegetative cover and carbon 
Page  2
sequestration in the targeted areas. (Higher level objectives can be found at Annex D of 
the PAD.)   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed project intends to enable communities to contribute to combating land 
degradation in critical areas, through the adoption of SLM best practices and the 
development of adequate capacity, tools, and mechanisms by communities. This 
proposed project is designed as a partially blended IDA/GEF project; thereby it will 
benefit from the activities and organizational structure already set up through PNDP, an 
APL consisting of three, four year phases. The PNDP intends to reduce poverty and 
promote sustainable rural development by strengthening local governance and 
empowering communities in rural areas. More specifically, it supports the 
implementation of demand-driven micro-projects and carries out local capacity-building 
activities. The PNDP supports decentralization by strengthening local and technical 
capacity and by addressing weaknesses in social capital to improve delivery of basic 
services, generate economic opportunity, and address poverty and growth. The PAPNDP 
and GEF activities will complement each other and will reinforce the efficiency of both 
projects, by creating a synergy.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will intervene in four (4) Provinces -Adamaoua, North, Center, and West- in 
which about eight (8) sites will be selected based on the added-value of financing with 
GEF incremental funds versus IDA funds under the PNDP and additional criteria to be 
agreed upon with the borrower.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt (AFTS2) 
Mr Thomas E. Walton (AFTSD) 
Ms Yvette Laure Djachechi (AFTS3) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
As the proposed GEF project will be implemented in parallel with the ongoing IDA 
project, there are likely to be some negative environmental and social impacts due to 
construction activities and increased agricultural activities under the IDA project, 
whereas the GEF operation will not incur any negative environmental and social impacts. 
Potentially negative effects on the pygmy population have been identified in the 
Indigeneous People’s Development Plan (IPDP) that will be implemented under both 
projects.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There will be no potential indirect and/or long-term impacts under either the IDA project 
or the GEF project as the potential negative environmental and social impacts can be 
easily mitigated.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
This GEF project has been designed to complement the IDA project; hence, alternatives 
in design were not considered.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Since the objectives of the IDA project have not changed, and the GEF project will be 
implemented in parallel with the IDA project, the proposed GEF project will apply the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and implement the relevant 
provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) which were prepared for 
the IDA project. The ESMF outlines the environmental and social screening process to be 
applied to future micro-projects to ascertain their potential negative environmental and 
social impacts. The IDPD describes the constraints faced by the pygmies regarding their 
full participation in the development process and makes recommendations for 
implementation.  
 
Both documents have been re-disclosed at the Bank’s Infoshop on August 24, 2005, to 
meet the Bank’s disclosure requirements. The project team had been advised during the 
preparation mission that it was not necessary to re-disclose these documents in Cameroon 
as these had been disclosed in-country already on June 12, 2003, and there exists no re-
disclosure requirement in Cameroon’s EA regulations.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The GEF project has carried out a detailed stakeholder analysis, capacity assessment and 
capacity building training program at both the national and local levels. The study 
addresses relations between the Bororos, pygmies and other sedentary groups. It analyzes 
Page  4
the overall situation in the project area, and then carries out a participatory diagnostic in 
which to place planned activities, and discusses the roles of the various stakeholders such 
as ministries, NGOs, and local populations. Persons that will be potentially affected by 
future micro-projects will be consulted in the context of the environmental and social 
screening process outlined in the ESMF, and the results of these consultations will be 
made available to the public.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/19/2003 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/19/2003 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/24/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/19/2003 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/19/2003 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
08/24/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Yes 
Page  5
Infoshop? 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ousmane Seck 
01/12/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
01/12/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Thomas E. Walton 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Joseph Baah-Dwomoh 
01/12/2006 
Comments:   
