Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2083 
Project Name 
Project Name: CM-SUSTAINABLE AGRO-PASTORAL AND 
LAND MANAGEMENT PROMOTION UNDER THE PNDP
 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Sector: Agricultural Extension (45%), Irrigation & Drainage 
(20%), Other social services (35%) 
Project ID 
P089289 
GEF Focal Area 
L-Land degradation 
Global Supplemental ID 
P089289 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs 
Cameroon 
Ministry of Agriculture 
Cameroon 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 12, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 17, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
April 27, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
1.1.General Country Background and Prevalence of Land Degradation 
 
The agro-sylvo-pastoral sector is the backbone of the Cameroonian economy. Its activities 
account for slightly over half of GNP and occupy about two-thirds of the working population. At 
the same time, poverty is more pronounced in rural areas (55% of the total population vs. 86% of 
the rural population), principally among smallholders who are highly dependent on the land. The 
incidence of poverty is highest for households headed by farmers (57 percent) and agricultural 
wage earners (50 percent).   
 
Land degradation in advanced stages is occurring across many areas of Cameroon that are highly 
dependent on the agro-sylvo-pastoral sector. Ongoing land degradation is a key barrier to 
maintaining and increasing the productive capacity of this sector and to increasing agricultural 
yields. Food insecurity is chronic in the Sudano-Sahelian zone as well as in the Western zone, a 
phenomenon closely intertwined with unsustainable utilization of the land. Between 1971 and 
1998, cereal production per capita declined from 157 kg to 85 kg. Cultivatable arable land covers 
about 15% of total surface area (68,125 square km); yet per capita arable land has fallen 
precipitously, from 0.86 ha in 1968, to 0.46 ha in 1996. In some regions, such as the Extreme 
North, estimates place per capita arable land at just 0.29 ha per capita by 2020. Given that 
increasing land productivity represents a key element of any equation to boost rural sector 
growth, land degradation is increasingly viewed by local stakeholders as an issue of vital 
importance, and seen as both a cause and a consequence of the perpetuation of pervasive 
poverty.  
Page  2
Land degradation in Cameroon is threatening the integrity of the ecosystems and environmental 
services (e.g. soil nutrient and organic carbon retention, hydrological functions, climate 
regulation) upon which Cameroon’s globally unique biodiversity depends, and is linked to poor 
water quality and the loss of biodiversity and vegetative cover. In effect, land degradation results 
in the loss of primary productivity and thus reduces the carbon sequestration potential of the 
vegetation. With reduced aboveground productivity, there is a corresponding loss of carbon 
inputs to the soil. In addition to reduced above and belowground carbon sequestration, land 
degradation often results in losses of existing carbon pools in the soil and the direct loss of 
important sinks for other greenhouse gases. As vegetative productivity declines, soil cover is also 
reduced and the resulting soil erosion negatively impacts soil biodiversity. Excessive erosion and 
sedimentation can negatively impact local wetland integrity and functions, and thus compromise 
the ability of watershed to cope with high rainfall events and flooding.  
 
Indeed, mounting pressure upon Cameroon’s natural resources coupled with stagnating agro-
sylvo-pastoral productivity has contributed to significant pressure on the country’s biodiversity 
and ecological resources (most notably in coastal marine, humid tropical forest, and wooded 
tropical savannah ecosystem zones). In the Northern and Adamaoua Provinces, which are 
characterized by fragile ecosystems, land degradation is increasingly visible. Its main causes are 
high demographic pressure on land and inefficient land use and management (such as 
overgrazing and slash-and-burn practices) at the communal level as well as at the regional level. 
Many conflicts occur between land users, especially between farmers and pastoralists. 
Furthermore, difficult transportation is a prevalent factor in the Adamaoua province. It is also 
characterized by a decrease in land previously used by herders, as a result of the development to 
the West of a natural park (for birds) and to the North of a series of national parks, camping 
areas, and contentious hunting areas, and of politico-military problems to the East (in the 
neighboring Central African Republic). The livestock of the Adamaoua province, estimated at 6 
million herds, is increasingly confined to a limited area on the Adamaoua plateau, giving rise to 
conflicts, overgrazing, and soil degradation. In the Western Province, deforestation and 
overgrazing (in the Bamboutos highlands), intensive and detrimental farming practices, and 
destruction of ‘sacred forests’ linked to high demographic pressure and conflicts between land 
users represent the main root causes of land degradation in the Western region. In the Central 
Province,
 
unsustainable agricultural techniques cause severe land degradation in the Central 
region. Slash-and-burn agriculture is the predominant practice, leading to high rates of 
deforestation and loss in soil fertility. The literature describes processes of ferralisation, 
ferrugination, and crop-cover constitution that are improper to the various methods of land 
usage, principally agricultural activities, which result in the destruction of the top-soil, soil 
erosion, and land degradation.  
 
The main causes of land degradation in Cameroon are: (i) unsustainable agricultural practices 
and mounting incidence of soil infertility (especially in the Sudano-Sahelian and Western zones) 
linked to: weak capacity for sustainable water and land use planning and implementation; 
inappropriate crop intensification, especially under mono-culture systems; expansion of 
agricultural production to marginal lands; agronomic practices poorly suited to local soil and 
water conditions; and inappropriate agricultural policies and incentives; (ii) overgrazing and 
bush fires, resulting in the degradation of vegetative cover and the destruction of micro-fauna; 
(iii) deforestation caused by over-harvesting of fuel-wood; conversion of woodland to large-scale 
crop or livestock production areas; and uncontrolled forest fires, often started to clear land for 
Page  3
farming or to facilitate hunting of wildlife; (iv) irrational land-use planning, with no zoning plan 
in most rural areas, and weak capacity to respond to climatic variability and droughts; (v) 
mounting population pressure and erroneous belief in the infinite supply of land, which creates 
environmental degradation in the highly populated zone of the high plateau of the Western 
Province and the Central Province, where the carrying capacity of the land has been reached or 
exceeded; and (vi) desertification and soil erosion. These root causes of land degradation are 
exacerbated when local populations lack land tenure security and/or water rights.  They therefore 
have little or no incentive to invest in land management and soil and water conservation 
practices, tending to focus on meeting their short-term economic needs.  
 
1.2. 
 
Country Eligibility, Country Drivenness, and Government Strategy 
 
a. 
Country Eligibility for World Bank and GEF financing 
 
Cameroon ratified the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) in 1997, the UN 
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 1994, and the U.N. Framework Convention on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 1994. It is preparing a National Action Plan under the UNCCD, 
which will be finalized at the end of 2005. It has also prepared and approved a National 
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) in 2002. Cameroon is eligible for World Bank 
and GEF funding. 
 
b.  Country Drivenness  
 
The Government’s National Action Plan to implement the UNCCD, and other strategies on 
land management.
 Cameroon ratified the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) 
in 1997. Since that time, it has moved on the UNCCD priorities and is drafting a National Action 
Plan (NAP) to combat land degradation. The NAP is expected to be finalized at the end of 2005. 
Implementation of the NAP has led to the creation of an inter-ministerial Coordination 
Committee to address land degradation and promote the implementation of the UNCCD in 
Cameroon. Investments in sustainable land management are planned to promote synergies 
between the three main environmental conventions, thereby addressing land degradation, 
biodiversity conservation, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. 
 
The Government’s National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). 
In fulfillment 
of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) obligations and in recognition of the need 
to halt and reverse the loss of biodiversity and degradation of ecosystems, the Government of 
Cameroon has elaborated a NBSAP, approved in 2002. Cameroon’s NBSAP targets the 
following biodiversity-related issues: (i) degradation of ecosystems through unsustainable 
exploitation; (ii) inadequate financial resources for the motivation and provision of incentives to 
conserve biodiversity; (iii) unplanned occupation of forest land, poorly planned urban clustering, 
problems of insecurity, uncontrolled implantation through plantations and other infrastructure; 
(iv) weak enforcement of policy measures, legal and institutional framework to ensure effective 
resource management and correct the poor human resources deployment and use; (v) land tenure 
and institutional problems through the poor respect of norms (policies) in certain areas, 
sometimes leading to conflicts of interest among stakeholders such as farmer-gazer conflicts; (vi) 
population pressure on biological resources for daily survival, causing unsustainable harvesting 
of some resources; and (vii) lack of decentralization in the management of biological resources, 
compounded by inadequate environmental and conservation information and sensitization, 
Page  4
insufficient participation of indigenous people, particularly women in the management process 
leading to inequitable sharing of revenues generated by biological resources among different 
stakeholders. The proposed project will address a number of these problems. 
 
Cameroon has a functional foundation of policies, legislation, regulations, and partnerships 
upon which to build land management and soil conservation programs. 
The national Law 
No. 05/12 of the 05/12/1996 outlines a national framework for environmental and integrated 
natural resources management. Despite the existence of this Law and the creation of an Inter-
ministerial Environment Committee, environmental pressures and biodiversity loss remain acute. 
In response, the Government formulated a coherent strategy embodying the AGENDA 21 
principles adopted in Rio in 1992. The Government has formulated a biodiversity strategy and an 
associated action plan. Implementation of this action plan will help promote sustainable 
management of the various ecosystems and thereby (i) comply with international conventions, 
regional agreements, and sector plans on biodiversity, such as the International Convention on 
Intervention in the High Seas, the Kano Convention, the National Forestry Plan; and (ii) draw up 
a
contingency plan for the management of hydro meteorological and/or geophysical disasters. 
 
The 1995 Decree # 678 by Prime Minister linked to Law 18/12, further taking into account 
Law 20/01 of 1994, sets the basis for establishing a zoning system for rational land-use and 
complementary GIS maps for rational development.
 The long-term stability and continuity of 
these policies are at risk, however, without continued support from the World Bank and other 
donors. These activities would be supported under the PAPNDP-GEF operation through a 
participatory approach to spatial planning and development in the priority intervention zones.  
 
Likewise, considerable interest exists among the Government of Cameroon and rural 
communities to address land degradation in a more concentrated, integrated way. Recent forestry 
sector reforms have demonstrated the political will and capacity to implement difficult 
environmental measures. In just a few years, an interdisciplinary team has been transforming a 
sector that until recently was completely opaque. Reforms have tested approaches critical to 
environmentally sustainable development, including competitive awarding of concessions, 
levying penalties for illegal logging, increased transparency, and increasing the share of royalties 
accruing to local governing bodies in rural areas. 
 
However, 
Decree No. 74-1 dated July 6, 1974, is the only one to address the issue of land use 
and tenure. 
The implementation of this land tenure legislation is difficult at the local level, as it 
is sometimes in contradiction with traditional land rights; thereby leading to potential conflicts, 
specifically with regards to encroachment, land damages resulting from herding, and the non-
existence or non-respect of zoning plans that determine agricultural and pastoral/grazing zones 
(cf. section D. 4. for further details). 
 
The Government of Cameroon is engaged in administrative decentralization.
 As stipulated 
in Law 74/23 and the 1996 constitution, the Government has begun to create decentralized 
entities. For example, the 
communes
,
which are governed by an elected mayor and council and 
becoming the decentralized body closest to local communities, have begun to play a major role 
in local development, collecting, depositing and managing local resources, as well as 
implementing and maintaining local investments. Building on this initiative, the proposed project 
will seek to raise awareness at the national and 
commune 
levels of the need for land reform, and 
Page  5
will seek the adoption and implementation of land-use plans at the 
commune 
and local levels 
within the targeted Provinces. 
 
The Government of Cameroon signed a Rural Development Policy letter on January 14, 
2004
,
in which it confirms its Rural Development Strategy. The latter defines local development 
as an important axis of the strategy and as the framework for local development projects in 
Cameroon. By being partially-blended to the PAPNDP, the proposed GEF project would benefit 
from this strong Government support. 
 
The New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
 Cameroon is committed to 
NEPAD’s objectives which call for increased attention to the agricultural sector and rural 
development initiatives. The project will also support several of its objectives. The NEPAD 
agricultural strategy identifies land degradation as a priority intervention area: “initial 
interventions are envisaged to rehabilitate degraded land and to address the factors that lead to 
such degradation”. Furthermore, NEPAD’s Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development 
Program (CAADP) has four pillars and priority investment areas, including land management 
and water control, which includes capacity building for sustainable land management policies. 
Wetlands conservation is also considered to be a critical area of intervention by NEPAD. 
 
c. Government 
Strategy 
 
Cameroon’s Strategy Document for the Development of the Rural Sector (
Document de 
Stratégie de Développement du Secteur Rural
)
of
February 2002 discusses the government’s 
goals of reducing rural poverty, promoting food security, increasing agricultural production, 
improving the quality of produce, and ensuring agricultural and environmental sustainability. It 
further elaborates upon four (4) central axes of achieving the stated objectives:  
(i) 
Modernize the agricultural production apparatus by addressing the issue of land 
tenure, ensuring access to water and resources (labor, capital, etc.), as well as 
promoting the use of innovative technology; 
(ii) 
Restructure the institutional framework through improving the capacity and 
effectiveness of the public sector and key stakeholders, promoting the responsibility 
and dynamism of local communities, and seeking contractual relationships with local 
NGOs; 
(iii) 
Create a legal environment conducive to rural development by promoting access to 
information and markets, and the development of rural infrastructure; 
(iv) 
Promote the sustainable management of natural resources through promoting 
mechanisms of coordination among all stakeholders (including the administration and 
Ministries), high implication of communes and local communities in this effort, 
awareness-raising on the value of resources and innovative management methods, 
adoption of land-use plans and promoting conflict resolution frameworks. 
 
The proposed project is in accordance with the objectives and axes in Cameroon’s Strategy 
Document, and especially axis (iv). Axes (i), (ii), and (iii) will be addressed by the project as 
means of ensuring the effectiveness and sustainability of land management in the targeted Pro 
 
2. Objectives 
 
Page  6
The project’s development objective
is to enable communities to contribute to combating land 
degradation in critical areas. This will be achieved through the adoption of SLM best practices 
and the development of adequate capacity, tools, and mechanisms by communities, thereby 
strengthening the overall impact of the PAPNDP. The project will build on national sustainable 
land management programs to ensure that the short and medium-term objectives of increased 
land productivity and agricultural growth are reconciled with the long-term local, national, 
provincial, and global environmental objectives. 
 
The project’s global environmental objective
is to improve the well functioning of ecosystems by 
integrating SLM into local development and by decreasing biodiversity loss in fragile agro-
sylvo-pastoral areas. As a result of incremental interventions, the project will contribute to 
rehabilitating degraded lands and curbing further degradation, reducing soil erosion, stabilizing 
sediment storage and release in critical trans-boundary water bodies such as Lake Chad and the 
Gulf of Guinea, and increasing vegetative cover and carbon sequestration in the targeted areas.  
 
The project’s expected outcomes
are: (i) communities in critical, priority areas enabled to 
conserve above and belowground biodiversity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
preventing land degradation and rehabilitating degraded lands, and ultimately to increase 
productivity of agro-sylvo-pastoral lands under management; (ii) stronger institutional and 
human capacities at the local and national levels in SLM planning and implementation of 
environmentally friendly sustainable land management practices; and (iii) more appropriate 
enabling environment and stronger legal, institutional, and policy framework for proper SLM 
implementation.  
 
The key indicators
(for details, see Results Framework in Annex 3) that would allow for 
evaluating whether the project has achieved its proposed outcomes are: (i) number of hectares of 
land maintained and rehabilitated through SLM practices in project areas; (ii) increased soil 
fertility or decreased soil erosion rate (runoff coef.) in the GEF project areas; (iii) increased 
vegetative cover and re-emergence of agro-biodiversity in targeted areas; (iv) legal texts on land-
use rights reviewed and adopted; (v) number of land land-use plans being effectively 
implemented; (vi) number of land-use conflict resolution frameworks being effectively 
implemented in targeted areas.  
 
3.1 The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) 
 
Cameroon’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 (
PRSP) dated April 30, 2003, identifies poverty, 
food insecurity, poor market integration, and unsustainable utilization of natural resources as 
major challenges to rural sector growth in Cameroon. It also underlines that changes in the 
ecosystem and declining soil fertility, among other factors, deteriorate the productive 
environment. Land degradation thus represents a fundamental challenge to reaching the 
overarching goals of Cameroon’s PRSP, namely, to bolster economic growth in the rural sector, 
to sustain rural livelihoods, and to reduce the incidence and severity of poverty. 
 
The proposed project is coherent with the PRSP, which focuses on seven (7) strategic areas: (i) 
promoting a stable macroeconomic framework, (ii) strengthening growth by diversifying the 
economy, (iii) revitalizing the private sector as the main engine growth and a partner in 
delivering social services, (iv) developing basic infrastructures and natural resources while 
protecting the environment, (v) accelerating regional integration in the framework of CEMAC, 
Page  7
(vi) strengthening human resources and the social sector and facilitating the integration of 
vulnerable groups into the economy and (vii) improving the institutional framework, 
administrative management, and governance. 
 
3.2 Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) supported by the project Document 
number: 26555 
 
Date of latest CAS discussion: September 11, 2003 
 
Cameroon Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of August 14, 2003, has been aligned with the 
PRSP’s goal of poverty reduction through improved basic delivery, private sector-led growth, 
and better governance. The proposed project is in line with the CAS, and it will help reinforce its 
first pillar: strengthening the institutional framework for improved pro-poor economic 
management and service delivery. By improving the productivity of agro-sylvo-pastoral land, the 
project will support growth in, and greater economic diversification of Cameroon’s primary 
sector. This crucial factor will contribute to a reduction of rural poverty by improving the income 
of small farmers and increasing food security. It will seek to develop natural resources, while 
protecting the environment through capacity building in sustainable land management at the 
national and local levels. The emphasis on capacity building will empower communities and 
increase the meaningful participation of stakeholders. As a result, it would contribute to 
improving governance and the institutional framework for pro poor economic management. 
 
3.3 World Bank Rural Development Strategies for Cameroon 
 
A
Rural Sector Review (RSR) was completed by the Bank on January 9, 2003. It assessed the 
main issues and constraints to rural sector performance in Cameroon and proposed an action plan 
for the Bank, including a national local development program. The RSR also highlighted how 
sustainable community development requires support to communities and programs for capacity-
building. The proposed project is in accordance with the PRSP’s goal. 
 
An Integrated Rural Development Strategy was developed within the structure of Cameroon’s 
Poverty Reduction Strategy; this strategy evolves around four pillars: (i) modernizing 
production, (ii) building institutional frameworks, (iii) establishing stronger incentives, and (iv) 
improving natural resource management. Within this latter pillar, land conservation and 
management represent an important focal area for increasing the rural production base. The 
government will encourage sustainable development by: (i) coordinating the management of 
renewable natural resources, involving all administration and key users; (ii) restoring and 
safeguarding production potential; and (iii) ensuring reliable local management of rural 
community infrastructures. The Rural Development Strategy particularly underlines that the 
above measures will focus on protecting soil fertility, the conservation of water resources, the 
conservation of land pastures, and the conservation of biodiversity. Within its rural strategy, the 
government also intends to support cross-sector policies and actions related to land management 
reform and capacity building. 
 
3.4 Relevant Environment Strategies 
 
The Global Environment Facility Operational Policy #15 (GEF OP #15) aims to catalyze 
partnerships with organizations, land users, and stakeholders to provide coordinated support at 
various levels to address land degradation in a manner that achieves lasting global environment 
benefits. In addition, OP#15 strives to mitigate and prevent land degradation in order to maintain 
Page  8
the “structure and functional integrity of ecosystems”. The proposed project strongly supports 
this aim. It will not only mitigate existing negative impacts of land degradation, but will also 
address the root causes, thereby contributing to restoring the productivity of natural resources in 
agro-sylvo-pastoral areas. Land degradation in Cameroon negatively affects other ecosystem 
components, and is linked to poor water quality and the loss of biodiversity and vegetative cover. 
Global environmental benefits of the proposed project include restoring the ecosystem health and 
the services the ecosystems will provide through increasing soil moisture and decreasing of 
erosion rate. Project interventions will also promote biodiversity conservation and enhance the 
protection of classified forests and wildlife protected areas as result of land-use plans, new 
resource conflict management plans, and increased awareness targeted at riparian communities 
or those situated in buffer zones. Other expected global environmental benefits of the proposed 
project include a decrease in biodiversity loss in the fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral ecosystems, a 
rehabilitation of degraded lands, a reduction of soil erosion, an increase of vegetative cover, and 
a
reappearance of endangered species within the project intervention areas. 
 
The proposed project is in line with OP#15 strategic priorities #1 (Targeted Capacity Building) 
and # 2 (Implementation of Innovative and Indigenous SLM Practices). Targeted capacity 
building will focus on integrated land-use planning primarily at the local level (communities and 
communes). In addition, project activities will provide support at the national level for 
strengthening participatory institutional mechanisms and capacity for integrated land-use 
planning and implementation. Likewise, interventions in vulnerable areas, and the dissemination 
of best practice SLM technologies through co-funding of innovative, demand-driven micro-
projects will be supported. In this way, land-resource management and conflict resolution 
mechanisms can be mainstreamed under a cross-sectoral approach. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
2.1. 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Bank is active in Cameroon in the area of local development. 
The Bank has a 
comparative advantage in supporting community participation, raising awareness of the value of 
natural resources, scaling up operations to achieve national coverage, and improving governance 
at the national and local levels. Through the 
Programme National de Vulgarisation et de 
Recherche Agricole (PNVRA)
,
now
closed, and the PNDP, the Bank is actively involved in local 
development in Cameroon. Other donors, on the other hand, have been much more active in the 
support of development than decentralization efforts at the local level. 
 
The Bank has strong multisectoral experience in local development in Cameroon. 
With its 
support to forestry, infrastructure, education, health and agriculture, the Bank has been 
instrumental in helping the Government develop and implement operations enabling 
communities to gain control over service delivery and resource allocation. The Bank’s past 
experience in Cameroon enables it to be successful in efforts to harmonize support to community 
action plans. Through the proposed project, the Bank will go one step forward in its involvement 
in Cameroon through its efforts to promote sustainable natural resource management. 
 
The Bank has acquired broad experience with community-driven development (CDD) 
projects in Cameroon, and Africa as a whole. 
In effect, several CDD operations are underway 
in Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Ethiopia, Guinea, Madagascar, Niger, Senegal, etc.). The 
Page  9
Bank has solid experience in social funds based on the demand-driven development approach. 
By building on the experience of these projects, and even more so on the lessons of PNVRA and 
PNDP, the proposed project will have comparative advantage which should result in the 
successful implementation of its operations. 
 
The Bank is striving for better donor coordination in rural development in Cameroon. 
The 
Bank plays a strong role in donor coordination for rural development in Africa, especially in 
Cameroon. The Bank has led several multidonor preparation missions that ended with the 
financial and technical commitments of several partners. The alignment, harmonization, and 
results agenda is moving ahead full speed, under strong Government leadership. Based on recent 
Government/donor meetings at the technical level, an action plan has been agreed upon and is 
being implemented for increased donor coordination in development efforts in Cameroon. The 
GEF project will extend the Bank's partnerships with bilateral donors under the PNDP (French 
Cooperation, Germany, and Netherlands).  
 
2.2. 
Rationale for GEF involvement 
 
Cameroon is co-financing and borrowing for the multi-donor financed National Community 
Development Support Program (PNDP), one of the major instruments envisioned by the 
Government to achieve the goals identified in the second pillar of its PRSP. PNDP is a 
framework program for the Government of Cameroon to coordinate a number of complementary 
projects and donor interventions aimed at strengthening local governance and realizing demand-
driven subprojects and capacity-building activities at the community and communal level. The 
multi-donor financed Community Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP), the largest 
project under the PNDP, aims to achieve the goals of the PNDP by setting up a decentralized 
financing mechanism to ensure participatory community development in rural areas. The 
PAPNDP’s goal is to reduce poverty and promote sustainable rural development in Cameroon, 
which includes assisting local communes and communities in enhancing natural resource and 
agricultural productivity by preventing and reversing land degradation. Under the PAPNDP, 
communities and communes will be engaged in a participatory appraisal of their needs, leading 
to the preparation of local development plans and the implementation of micro-projects co-
financed by the PNDP. PAPNDP is structured as an APL and would be implemented in three 
phases of four years each; the first phase would cover five of Cameroon’s ten provinces: South, 
Centre, West, Adamaoua, North, and Extreme North. Similar project under the PNDP are being 
financed by the German Development Cooperation Agency (GTZ) and KfW in the Extreme 
North.   
 
The major goal of this GEF project is to facilitate the achievement of this objective by ensuring 
that land users also harness the potential synergies with PAPNDP’s activities by adding 
resilience to existing land-use systems via the improved conservation of above and belowground 
biodiversity, and improved conservation of wetlands and riparian zones that are essential for 
local and regional biodiversity conservation, ecohydrology, and adaptation to climate change. 
The PAPNDP’s impact on combating land degradation would be limited and fragmented without 
GEF incremental funding, and sustainable land management (SLM) would not be emphasized 
sufficiently in either national, sectoral, or decentralized development planning. The scale and 
scope of activities to address land degradation under existing Government and donor 
commitments would be far too limited and only scattered attention would be given to this critical 
Page  10
issue. GEF incremental funding will also help develop a replication plan of SLM best practices 
to be used by the Government during the subsequent phases of the PAPNDP. 
 
The GEF components have been designed to complement and ensure the environmental benefits 
of each of the four components of the first phase of this APL project (cf. Table 1 in Annex 15 
–
Incremental Cost Analysis, detailing IDA-financed and GEF-financed activities). The GEF 
project’s implementation and execution arrangements will rely extensively on those of the 
PAPNDP (for further details, cf. Section C - Implementation). The project will benefit from the 
Government and PNDP’s cross-sectoral framework, as well as existing decentralized 
management structures and logistics. The GEF project will be more likely to achieve its 
objectives through the integration of innovative sustainable land management practices into local 
development investments, the strengthening of the decentralization process on land management, 
and capacity building at the local and national level for more rational land-use planning, afforded 
by the umbrella framework of the PNDP. Since baseline activities will contribute to supporting 
the basic needs of communities, the likelihood of success of GEF activities will be higher, as 
communities will be in a better position to address longer-term issues associated with land 
degradation that contribute to the perpetuation of poverty. At the same time, the GEF project’s 
incremental activities will contribute to reaching PAPNDP’s overarching development objective 
of reducing poverty and promoting sustainable rural development.  
 
Likewise, this overarching structure, particularly in focusing on local and decentralized 
implementation, will facilitate a more systematic implementation of Cameroon’s priorities under 
the UNCCD, and create synergies with other key national strategies relating to biodiversity 
conservation and land management. GEF incremental activities will support the development and 
implementation of national priorities and strategies under the UN Convention to Combat 
Desertification (UNCCD), and specifically, Cameroon’s priorities outlined in the NAP. Less 
significantly, the project will support program priorities on sustainable land management 
outlined in the Convention on Biological Diversity and the UN Framework Convention on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC), particularly as they relate to increasing vegetative cover, 
conserving biodiversity, accelerating carbon storage in above- and below-ground biomass, and 
maintaining soil organic carbon and nutrient levels essential for maintaining agro-biodiversity.  
 
The GEF is uniquely positioned to support the project’s objectives given the likely global 
environmental benefits. Moreover, it is unlikely that these would be achieved in the absence of 
GEF support, due to material, technical and financial resource constraints. The PAPNDP’s 
impact on combating land degradation in its zones of operation would be limited and fragmented 
without GEF incremental funding specifically dedicated to this issue and, sustainable land 
management would not be emphasized sufficiently or coherently enough in both national sectoral 
or in decentralized development planning. The scale and scope of activities that would 
specifically address land degradation under existing Government and donor commitments would 
be far too limited relative to the magnitude of the problem. Without a more coherent framework 
for interventions, only scattered attention would be given to this critical issue. Likewise, current 
efforts underway to promote land-use planning and rationalization would continue to evolve 
slowly, taking several more years to achieve national coverage than if more GEF resources were 
available. Given Cameroon’s high level of rural poverty, it is unlikely that communities would 
prioritize investments in sustainable land and water management, particularly those with longer-
term payback periods, without incremental funding for capacity building and piloting of best 
practices. As a result, Cameroon would continue to experience significant ongoing land 
Page  11
degradation, further decreases in the diversity of biological resources in agro-sylvo-pastoral 
lands, and the quality of natural resources therein; thereby contributing to stagnating land 
productivity. These trends would undermine the likelihood of achieving the goals set by the 
Rural Development Strategy and by extension the Cameroonian PRSP. 
 
The proposed project would also add value to the GEF’s existing portfolio of projects in 
Cameroon, while also facilitating synergies between them. As a result, a more coherent, 
integrated approach to addressing Cameroon’s environmental and natural resource management 
challenges will be ensured. Coordination will be promoted in particular with:  
1.  the GEF supported Forestry and Environmental Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC), 
through regular meetings on the preparation and implementation of annual work 
programs and common schedule for supervision missions. Given mutually beneficial 
externalities, the two GEF projects complement each other. Deforestation engenders 
soil erosion and impoverishment. In addressing these issues, FESAC will contribute 
to the proposed GEF objectives. The proposed GEF SLM project will contribute in 
attenuating some of the root causes of forest degradation such as: (i) expansion of 
agriculture frontier in the absence of agriculture inputs to stabilize fertility levels, and 
farmers’ familiarity with adequate crop rotations; and, (ii) the persistence of a context 
that tolerates inequity and does not stimulate participation. 
2. Regional and transboundary programs The proposed project will also facilitate 
synergies with other ongoing GEF activities in the country and region (e.g. Reversing 
Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin and in the Lake Chad 
Basin Ecosystem. (For more information, please refer to Annex 2).   
 
GEF support is also value-added in catalyzing additional support from the donor community for 
sustainable land management in Cameroon, particularly for the second and third phases of the 
PNDP. This will allow for broader coverage of project interventions and accelerate the 
development of sound institutional capacity and policies for sustainable land management. With 
GEF support, the World Bank is currently incubating the TerrAfrica Partnership; TerrAfrica 
being a multi-partner platform that aims to scale-up SLM across SSA. Its activities center on 
building coalitions at regional and national levels to promote SLM across sectors, share 
knowledge, and help coordinate investments, thereby maximizing efficiencies and impacts. The 
TerrAfrica partnership is inclusive, involving SSA countries, civil society and research 
organizations, multilaterals and bilaterals (i.e., the AfDB, European Commission, FAO, GM of 
the UNCCD, IFAD, NEPAD, UNCCD Secretariat, UNDP, UNEP, and the World Bank In this 
context, the World Bank’s pivotal role in the TerrAfrica Partnership would be leveraged for 
scaling-up the best practices of the pilot interventions established under the project.  
 
4. Description 
 
GEF Project’s Priority Zones. 
The proposed project intends to support sustainable land 
management, and more specifically contribute to combating land degradation in 4 targeted 
Provinces: North, Adamaoua, Centre, and West. Specific intervention sites within these 
Provinces will be selected based on criteria identified and agreed upon with the counterpart. 
These include: (i) magnitude of land degradation (as measured through soil fertility depletion, 
rate of water runoff, and soil erosion, land-use systems, and land productivity); (ii) biodiversity 
conservation, crop cover and agro-forestry practices; and (iii) socio-economic facilitating factors 
or constraints. For further details, please refer to table 1 in Annex 4. Land degradation is more 
Page  12
acute in the North and Adamaoua Provinces (cf. map 1 in Annex 1, and Annex 17), and is felt by 
communities as one of the main constraints for improving their livelihood. Therefore, the project 
activities are likely to be concentrated in these 2 Provinces. A tentative list of intervention sites 
has been established during pre-appraisal (cf. Annex 6), and will be validated during appraisal. 
 
Components. 
The GEF project has three main components (see Annex 4 for a detailed 
description and Annex 5 for a detailed cost breakdown): (i) Integrating SLM and resulting 
environmental benefits into local development; (ii) institutional support to create an enabling 
operational and policy environment for SLM; and (iii) supporting project management and 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation and communication. The components have been 
designed to accelerate investments in SLM and the prevention and rehabilitation of land 
degradation and to promote the development of capacity, tools, and mechanisms for 
communities’ ownership in this process. The activities of these components will mitigate the 
main barriers to adopting effective SLM best practices in Cameroon. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT .07 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
5.3 
 Total 
5.37 
 
Page  13
6. Implementation 
 
Since the GEF project will be partially blended with the PAPNDP (
Projet d’Appui au PNDP
), its 
implementation and execution arrangements will rely extensively on those of PAPNDP. 
Accordingly, the Ministry of Public Investment shall have institutional responsibility for the 
project, and will be the agency accountable to the Government of Cameroon and the World Bank 
for the project’s proper execution and supervision. This overarching structure will increase the 
likelihood of project success, as detailed in Annex 15 (section on GEF Alternative Scenario). 
Other intervening structures are as follows:  
 
Ministries and PNDP’s Steering Committee.
 
PNDP has contractual arrangements with key 
concerned ministries
 which are also part of PNDP’s Steering Committee. The GEF project will 
benefit from these arrangements, which will be further specified during preparation and included 
in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The Steering Committee would be accountable to 
ensure: (i) a better coordination between ongoing GEF activities, and (ii) SLM policy 
mainstreaming, as well as training and workshops with concerned implementing agencies. The 
GEF project will therefore benefit from an integrated approach for promoting SLM; its 
incremental activities will benefit from these existing technical, administrative, and management 
capacities, reinforcing its credibility in its efforts to promote the mainstreaming of SLM into 
government policies. A survey and assessment of existing institutional, legislative and policy 
frameworks will lead to the formulation of recommendations for subsequent reforms in order to 
mainstream SLM into development policies. 
 
PNDP’s Project Management Unit (PMU).  
PNDP is implemented by a Project Coordination 
and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) and Provincial Project Units (PPU). This structure provides a 
sound basis for ensuring the implementation of GEF incremental activities. For example, the 
merged institutional set up and monitoring and evaluation system will facilitate synergies. 
PNDP’s PCMU is composed of a Project Management Unit (PMU) and its administrative and 
financial management units. The PMU would be responsible for coordinating the implementation 
of the project. It was deemed necessary to have the same project unit for the PAPNDP and the 
GEF projects as it would ensure a synergy between the two, facilitate the implementation of the 
GEF project, and strengthen capacity while avoiding parallel implementation units. Accordingly, 
the GEF project will benefit from the pre-existing PMU whose staff has experience in the CDD 
approach and has received training in accounting, auditing, procurement, disbursement, 
monitoring and evaluation. In order to further ensure the success of the GEF project, a land 
management specialist will be hired to serve as the GEF Focal Point, while being attached to 
PNDP’s Project Management Unit. This person will be a link between the project, the steering 
committee, and relevant ministries. Also, in order to ensure the cost-effective use of GEF funds 
and successful implementation of its activities while maintaining the PNDP implementation 
body as simple as possible, the proposed project will benefit from existing PNDP administrative 
and financial management units. During pre-appraisal mission, it was agreed that a land 
management specialist, junior accountant, and procurement assistant would be hired to ensure 
proper implementation of the GEF project.  
 
Local Communes and Communities. 
The project will develop a landscape approach to 
implement proposed activities on land degradation. Therefore, apart from communities in micro-
sheds, rural communes are the main beneficiaries of the project’s interventions. Individuals in 
Page  14
rural communities within the targeted areas would form community-based organizations, where 
all stakeholders would meet with a self-appointed secretariat to organize meetings, assess their 
needs, and prepare local development plans in a participatory manner. Local communities will 
then submit for approval their proposals for co-financing micro-investments at the provincial (for 
communal and inter-communal micro-
projects) or communal (for communities’ micro-projects) 
decision committees set in the GEF priority intervention areas. For financial mechanisms, refer 
to Section D. 
 
Other Stakeholders. 
The proposed project aims to contribute to a sustainable improvement of 
the living conditions of the rural populations, in particular the most underprivileged. In this 
context, management of agro-sylvo and agro-sylvo-pastoral lands presents a major challenge.  To 
ensure that policies and micro-projects contribute to local sustainable development, civil society, 
local small holders, the private sector, NGOs and community groups are involved at all stages of 
project development and implementation. Components focus on stakeholder needs, targeting 
capacity strengthening and empowerment for the long-term uptake of sustainable land-use 
practices. Stakeholder groups include: (i) local communities, community organizations and 
producer organizations whose livelihoods depend on agriculture and related production in and 
around key ecosystems and who will benefit from capacity building and the application of 
sustainable land management technology packages; (ii) indigenous and minority groups such as 
the Pygmies and Bororos respectively; (iii) NGOs, community organizations, and private sector 
agencies that will implement and monitor initiatives; (iv) government agencies (at the center, 
provincial and district levels) that will be engaged during the policy analysis, coordination of the 
program, and its implementation; and (v) the related research institutions that will direct the 
development and delivery of demand driven research and extension. 
 
2.1 Manuals, Financial Mechanisms and Arrangements 
 
Manuals.
 
A
comprehensive Project Implementation Manual (PIM), a Monitoring and 
Evaluation Manual, and an Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual are currently being 
prepared, and will be reviewed by the Bank during appraisal. The Project Implementation 
Manual will define institutional arrangements for implementing the project. In addition to 
defining criteria for selecting project sites in each of the four priority Provinces, and for eligible 
micro-projects, which will serve to identify and approve micro-projects. A positive list of such 
micro-projects has been prepared and agreed upon with the government during pre-appraisal. (cf. 
Table 2 in Annex 4). A negative list is available as well. 
 
The overall organization of the project, a detailed configuration of the PMU, the profile of the 
staff and their job descriptions, as detailed in PAPNDP’s PIM, will be updated as necessary and 
used for the GEF project. The existing Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual 
contains: (i) a job description of the accounting and financial staff; (ii) the accounting system to 
be followed; (iii) the main transactions’ cycles; (iv) the various operational procedures including 
budget management (planning, execution, and monitoring), management of assets, procurement 
of goods and services, and disbursement; and (v) internal control procedures; it will also be 
updated as necessary. 
 
Financial Mechanisms and Flow of Funds.
 
The GEF project will have one Special Account 
and four Second Generation Special Accounts to facilitate the project implementation and reduce 
the volume of withdrawal applications. The Government will open one Special Account (SA) in 
Page  15
FCFA in a commercial bank in terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. This Special 
Account will be used to finance the micro-projects and operating costs for NCU/PPUs. The 
authorized allocation for SA will be FCFA 300 millions and will cover about four months of 
eligible expenditures. Detailed description methods to be used in making payment from the SA 
will be specified in the disbursement letter and in the project’s Administrative and Financial 
Manual (see Annex 7). 
 
Financial Management Arrangements.
 
The NCU through its financial management and 
accounting unit will have the overall responsibility of the project financial management. They 
will maintain the project’s consolidated budget and accounts. To that end, the GEF Trust fund 
will be handled through the existing computerized and integrated financial management. The 
computerized financial management system is multi-currency and includes the following 
modules which should be integrated: general accounting, cost accounting, monitoring and 
evaluation, assets management, preparation of withdrawal applications and tracking of 
disbursements by donors, reports generating, including quarterly FMR (Financial Monitoring 
reports) and annual financial statements. Therefore, the GEF project will be handled in a separate 
data base and its specific financial statements will be consolidated for reporting purpose. 
Consequently, the existing computerized system will be updated and upgraded to a multi-
projects system. A fully functioning multi - projects financial management system satisfactory to 
the Bank is considered as a condition for negotiation (cf. Annex 7). 
 
Financial Monitoring Reports.  
On a quarterly basis, the following Financial Monitoring 
Reports will be prepared by the NCU and submitted 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter to the Bank. Financial Reports including a Statement showing inflows by sources and 
outflows by main expenditure classifications for the period, and cumulatively (project life); and 
schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. The reports will also include budget 
forecast for the next quarter. Physical Progress Reports Procurement Reports (cf. Annex 7).
 
Auditing.
 
The GEF grant will require the submission of Audited Project Financial Statements to 
IDA within six (6) months after year-end. An independent qualified external auditor has been 
appointed under PAPNDP on terms of references (TORs) acceptable to IDA. GEF Grant will be 
audited by the auditor appointed under PAPNDP and the TORs will be updated accordingly. 
However the auditor will provide a separate report with a single opinion on the audited GEF 
Project Financial Statements in compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) will 
be required including the accuracy and the propriety of expenditures made under the SOE 
procedures
 
and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for grant disbursements.  
In addition to the audit reports, the external auditors will be expected to prepare a Management 
Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements in 
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in the Grant 
agreement. The audit scope will be tailored to the project’s specific risks, in accordance with 
Bank requirements and agreed upon with the counterpart. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the project will be likely with the provision of incremental resources, 
appropriate decision-making tools, and capacity-building to beneficiaries. The participatory and 
community empowerment process will ensure a high degree of ownership and accountability. 
The combination of SLM mainstreaming, including improved cross-sectoral coordination 
Page  16
mechanisms for SLM policy development and implementation, with on the ground results, will 
generate durable multiple global, national and local benefits that local actors will strive to 
maintain. GEF incremental funding will contribute to preserving the ecological and economic 
value of land in critical areas, ensure that production is managed in an environmentally 
sustainable manner, and retard the deterioration and possible break-down of the functioning of 
important ecosystem services in priority areas. The reversal of land degradation trends will also 
ultimately lead to an increase in land productivity and an improvement in food security.  
 
Promotion of greater land security through the adoption and implementation of land-use plans, 
and training in sound land-use technologies and planning at multiple scales will help farmers and 
pastoralists plan with a longer-term perspective. GEF financed activities can also guarantee a 
higher effectiveness and sustainability of baseline interventions, maintaining a balance between 
improving rural livelihoods and infrastructure, on one hand, and protection of ecosystems and 
landscapes, on the other hand. The project will strive as much as possible to use local knowledge 
and indigenous species to enhance the viability of the agro-ecological systems. Practical 
applications by communities and producer groups will be supported in collaboration with local 
implementing agencies and technical agents.  
 
Institutional Sustainability. 
Given that PAPNDP has adopted a long-term Adaptable Program 
Loan (APL) approach, the proposed GEF-supported actions in Phase I of the APL will provide 
the foundation for an SLM policy and institutional framework and the validation of innovative 
approaches that will be able to leverage the next phase of APL resources to ensure replication 
and scaling-up  The PAPNDP further creates an enabling environment for the sustainability of 
the proposed project by strengthening the capacity of local institutions. It will ensure the 
sustainability of the project benefits. By strengthening the community and commune institutional 
and operational frameworks, the PAPNDP will increase Cameroon’s international credibility and 
facilitate the mobilization of additional donor funds. 
 
Through the PAPNDP, local capacities will be strengthened, thereby allowing the proposed 
project to benefit from effective local institutions. The groundwork undertaken by PAPNDP will 
also be reinforced by capacity building efforts undertaken by the proposed project. In effect, 
GEF incremental funding will build capacity and support innovative implementation of SLM 
best practices in local and communal development planning, thereby strengthening the overall 
impact of the PAPNDP. An institutional and capacity assessment of key concerned agencies will 
be conducted with the objective of highlighting, among other things, factors affecting their 
sustainability, and will help determine means of addressing them. The capacity and sustainability 
of these institutions will be further strengthened through the various training and workshops 
planned. The Steering Committee would provide the concerned ministries and other stakeholders 
with the conceptual, administrative, and technical expertise related to SLM to scale-up such 
initiatives and thus promote greater sustainability of actions undertaken by these institutions.  
 
Replicability. 
Interventions to be advanced under the GEF operation appear to have a great 
potential for replicability. The GEF project will profit from the multi-donor cooperation and 
sound enabling environment paved through IDA’s previous and ongoing engagements under the 
framework of the PNDP. PNDP should continue to expand for many years to come, to eventually 
cover Cameroon’s entire territory. GEF incremental activities can thus pilot, validate, and/or 
replicate sound approaches to sustainable land management through a vehicle that holds promise 
for national coverage and ready potential for scale-up. In this way, the benefits and synergies of 
Page  17
the PNDP-GEF operations can be rapidly amplified within a sustainable development 
framework. An important part of the replication and continuance of the outputs of the projects 
will depend on the capacity of the institutions in this sector. The project will help the responsible 
government bodies to evolve towards a policy development, advisory and monitoring role and 
provide strategic directions to the sector while allowing the private sector, producer groups, 
communities, local government and other stakeholders to undertake direct activities such as 
natural resource management, investment and marketing. In order to further ensure the 
successful replication and continuance of the outputs of the proposed project, the latter will assist 
the Government of Cameroon in developing a replication plan, which will be updated during the 
lifetime of the project based on experiences and lessons learned. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
A
number of lessons have been incorporated in the project design. These lessons are from the 
implementation of the PNDP, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the “Biodiversity  
Conservation and Management Project,” dated September 11, 2003, and those from other land 
management projects and biodiversity projects (in Cameroon, Chad, and Brazil). These are: 
 
4.1  Lessons learned from local development initiatives in Cameroon and Chad: 
 
Sustainable management of agro-sylvo-pastoral lands 
The AFD-financed project 
Eau-Sol-Arbre (ESA)
 built on initiatives of the now closed 
Développement Paysannal et Gestion des Terroirs (DPGT)
 project in the North and Extreme-
North Provinces, is very active in introducing new technology for the reduction of soil erosion, 
improvement of soil fertility and biodiversity, and in reforestation and awareness-raising on the 
need for tree-planting. It has also developed and rehabilitated numerous pastoral corridors and 
established an effective collaborative framework with 
the Institut de Recherche Agronomique 
pour le Développement (IRAD)
 to: (i) evaluate the impact of land management efforts on soil 
erosion, fertility and production; (ii) better integrate biodiversity management in agro-pastoral 
systems; (iii) develop and implement appropriate soil-restoration and water conservation 
technologies; and (iv) increase awareness on the value of tree-products for a more integrated and 
sustainable management of the ecosystem, including indigenous species (such as the 
gomme 
arabique (acacia senegal
)).  
 
The project 
Gestion Sécurisée des Espaces Pastoraux (GESEP)
,
active in the Extreme-North, 
North, and Adamaoua Provinces, is funded by the French Cooperation ( 
Service de Coopération 
et d’Actions Culturelles -SCAC)
 via the 
Fonds de Solidarité Prioritaire (FSP)
.
GESEP’s 
objectives are to: (i) revive the existing conflict resolution commissions in order to ensure land 
security for pastoralists; (ii) conduct training on integrated agriculture and livestock production; 
(iii) reinforce the capacity in SLM of the provincial representatives of the MINEPIA; and (iv) 
promote fruitful dialogue among various natural resource users. GESEP, in collaboration with 
the federation of herders in the North Province and Adamaoua, is actively involved in improving 
pastoral areas and implementing measures to reverse land degradation.     
 
Possible interventions by the project were identified at pre-appraisal, during exchanges with the 
GESEP project team; these include: (i) promoting the review of Decree No 78/263 dated 
September 03, 1978, relative to the creation of Conflict Resolution Commissions, to ensure the 
inclusion of all stakeholders, including representatives for the Ministry of Planning and the 
Page  18
Ministry of Decentralization; and (ii) raising-awareness (at the national and provincial 
government levels) for the reinforcement and legitimization of the authority of traditional chiefs 
and an increase in their financial incentives as they  play a critical role in mitigating conflict; 
thereby decreasing their need to maintain control over land and reinforcing their neutrality as 
well as the credibility and effectiveness of traditional conflict resolution mechanisms. Moreover, 
the team noted the severity of land degradation, especially in the Lagdo area in the North 
Province, where inter-communal interventions are urgently needed to mitigate the sand filling of 
the lake, rehabilitate the surrounding forestry massif, and conserving the ecosystem. 
 
The proposed project will coordinate with, and build on the experiences of GESEP and ESA to 
mitigate land degradation and promote sustainable land management via the introduction of best 
practices and technologies, zoning efforts, and the implementation of land-use plans for agro-
sylvo-pastoral lands. 
 
Community Action Plans.
 
Adequate follow-up after the establishment of community action 
plans is necessary for its proper implementation. Without continuing support from qualified 
technicians and NGOs, up to half of participating communities encounter serious problems 
implementing their action plans. Support is therefore needed to reinforce the participatory 
process, train community leaders in financial management, and make administrative 
arrangements for support from local NGOs with relevant expertise and/or from local 
implementing agencies and technical agent
s. The proposed project will benefit from PNDP’s 
multisectoral team to provide this support. 
 
Community-Driven Projects.
 
Experience has shown that a community driven development 
(CDD) approach toward natural resource management is desired by Cameroonians, at the 
national, provincial, and local levels. Demand for community-driven projects is extremely high.  
Capacity-Building.
  At the community level, capacity-building must be addressed before 
transferring resources to communities. Transferring resources without adequate attention to 
capacity-building could exacerbate rent-seeking behavior by local elites. Participatory 
approaches that empower vulnerable groups would mitigate this risk. The training of key 
stakeholders can be contracted to any operator with the required expertise (consultant firms, 
NGOs, research institutions, and/or government services). 
 
Responsibilities.
 
Local governments must not be assigned responsibilities that exceed their 
level of competence. Transferring resources to local governments without clear management 
procedures, mechanisms for transparency, and lines of accountability could lead to rent-
capturing by local leadership or bureaucracy. 
 
Disbursement.
 
Efficiency in disbursement is paramount in acquiring and maintaining local 
interest and the dynamism of community groups. 
 
4.2 
Lessons Learned from ICR for the “Biodiversity  Conservation and Management 
Project”: 
 
Decentralization.
 
Although not yet fully effective, the Government of Cameroon has started 
decentralization, vowing to disengage from the management of development activities and to 
increase the active participation of local governments (at the provincial and commune level) and 
rural communities in the planning and implementation of development activities. In a country as 
Page  19
diverse in all respects as Cameroon, decentralization is key for the project to be effective at the 
local level. Furthermore, one should note that communities need more control over their land and 
other natural resources in order to assume greater responsibilities for planning and management. 
In keeping this lesson in mind, the project will accompany the Government of Cameroon in its 
decentralization efforts and in the adoption of new decentralization laws (and land management 
plans) that would provide for the management of lands by rural communities. The importance of 
building strong partnerships between Local Governments (LGs) and Community-Based 
Organizations (CBOs) is recognized in order to achieve scale and sustainability of the operation. 
The proposed project will be in
 
line with PNDP’s strategy to accompany
 
the Government in its 
efforts towards decentralization. Providing the necessary flexibility in institutional arrangements 
to allow for the adaptation to local circumstances will contribute significantly to the 
improvements of results achieved.  
 
Disbursement and Procurement Procedures.
 
A lesson from the Biodiversity Conservation 
and Management Project is the need for disbursement and procurement procedures to be 
discussed and adapted in collaboration with all partners at the outset of program implementation. 
This will be taken into account by the proposed project. 
 
4.3 
Lessons Learned from ICR for the “Biodiversity  Conservation and Management 
Project” and the Land Management III Project in Brazil: 
 
Success and Sustainability.  
The project will keep in mind the fact that success and 
sustainability can only be achieved when full collaboration and integration of approaches is 
achieved between the environmental and agricultural sectors, and will involve all key Ministries 
in the preparation and implementation of this project (especially through its Steering Committee 
–
cf. C.2.). Sustainability of projects that aim at natural resource management is greatly enhanced 
if they generate benefits at the level of the individual plots, farms, and also for the community as 
whole. In effect, communities will not accept the additional costs (in time, money, or effort) 
imposed by sound natural resource management if they do not understand the benefits. In the 
case of this project, the reversal of land degradation will lead to improvements in land 
productivity, which will highly benefit the communities.  In addition, the development of a 
Conflict Management Framework will be an additional gain for the communities. 
 
Conservation of natural resources on a sustainable basis requires continuous attention and action 
on the part of rural producers. Furthermore, projects that aim at the conservation of natural 
resources tend to be more successful when all stakeholders participate in project preparation and 
implementation. In effect, it is unrealistic to expect concrete achievement in the domain of 
natural resource conservation without explicit consent and active participation of local 
populations. To achieve this, it is necessary to empower all key stakeholders and to give official 
recognition to this empowerment (through capacity-building training and support to the creation 
of various local committees to mitigate resource-based conflicts). Through the development of a 
Conflict Management Framework, this project will help stakeholders solve problems inherent in 
the management of commonly held natural resources. By so doing, the project will be an 
important ally to the local communities targeted through the assistance offered in land 
management and capacity-building, as well as in negotiation and mediation between different 
groups, reduction in conflict, resolution of situations where the interest of the individual is not in 
accordance with the interest of the community or where the interest of herders is in conflict with 
that of agriculturalists (and vice versa).   
Page  20
4.4 Lessons from other Countries 
 
The Niger Natural Resources Management Project. 
This project demonstrated a solid record 
of success and proved that communities have substantial capacity for local development in the 
area of natural resources management. In Niger, procedures used in the Community Action 
Program (e.g., community-based procurement procedures) were introduced and implemented 
after the midterm review of the Natural Resources Management project in early 2000, and the 
findings of the Community Action Program in Benin were confirmed. Since then the procedures 
have been successfully implemented by all 125 communities in the project, even with the 
handicap of a s
parse network of bank agencies. The project was rated “satisfactory” across-the-
board upon completion, and the sustainability of its interventions was rated as “likely,” 
particularly as a large share of communities involved in the project indicated their intention to 
self-finance micro-projects identified under the program. This is an important precedent, 
especially in light of the slowly emerging decentralization (laws enacted but no local elections).   
 
Other Lessons.
 
Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups.
 
Communities must be organized with a 
participatory process to address the development needs of their constituencies, particularly 
marginalized groups (herders), the underprivileged, women, and the young, and prioritize 
these needs at the community level. Without specific targeting of and outreach to indigenous 
communities (in the case of this project, the Pygmies) and minority groups (the Bororos), 
prior patterns of marginalization are likely to continue. 
 
Communication.
 
Direct communication between communities and project staff is essential. 
Staff should be recruited locally, provided they have the necessary expertise, or be fluent in 
at least one local language. Project management must be nimble and close to the 
beneficiaries (geographically and culturally). 
 
Balancing Trade-offs
.
Addressing barriers to SLM requires a good understanding of the 
trade-offs between competing land use systems, and the economic returns to the 
implementation of various SLM technologies. These include global environmental benefits, 
agro-economic production sustainability, profitability to small holders and employment 
creation. Lessons in Cameroon will be gleaned from ongoing research under the GEF-
supported “Alternatives to Slash and Burn” Project in better understanding the optimal trade-
offs (see Annex I).  
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The safeguard screening category for the proposed Project is S2 and the environmental screening 
category is B. Since it will complement activities under PAPNDP, the Project has triggered OP 
4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples due to the potential negative 
environmental and social impacts of future micro-projects. OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement has 
not been triggered because none of the Project activities will involve land acquisition. 
 
Page  21
To ensure effective participation of the pygmies in the planning and implementation of micro-
projects and the development of related sustainable land management practices, the Project will 
support training activities 
as recommended in PAPNDP’s Indigenous Peoples Plan (June 2003).  
 
As required by the Bank’s disclosure policy, both documents, the ESMF (June 2003) and the 
IPDP will be re-disclosed at the Bank’s Infoshop, prior to appraisal. The Government of 
Cameroon has approved and disclosed these documents on June 19, 2003, and does not require 
their re-disclosure. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Page  22
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
a. 
Project Implementation Plan 
i. 
Manual d’Exécution 
(To be completed and adopted by end of project 
appraisal)
 
ii. 
Manual de Suivi et Evaluation 
(To be completed and adopted by end of 
project appraisal)
 
iii. 
Manual de Procédures Comptables, Administratives, et Financières 
(To be 
completed and adopted by end of project appraisal) 
 
b.  Bank Staff Assessments 
·
Aide-mémoire de la mission de pré-évaluation 
(July 2005)
 
·
Aide-mémoire de la mission d’évaluation 
(October 2005)
 
c. 
Reports of Studies and other Outputs 
·
Report of the “Review of Institutional, Legislative, and Policy Frameworks Bottlenecks 
for proper SLM Implementation
”
(To be completed by project appraisal) 
·
Report of the “Detailed Stakeholder Analysis and Capacity-Building Assessment” 
(To be 
completed by project appraisal)
 
o
Participatory and Accountability Mechanism 
o
Conflict Management Framework 
o
Capacity-Building Plan 
·
Report of the “Inventory and Assessment of the Cultural and Technical Feasibility of Soil 
Protection and Restoration” 
(To be completed by project appraisal)
 
·
Report of the “Baseline Study” 
(To be completed by project appraisal)
 
·
Report of the “study of Innovative and Successful Practices in SLM” 
(To be completed by 
project appraisal)
 
d. Other 
·
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) prepared for the PAPNDP 
(June 2003)
 
·
Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP) prepared for the PAPNDP 
(June 2003)
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Ousmane Seck 
Title: Senior Agriculture Extension Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-9149 
Email: Oseck@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454, Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  23
