Page  1
A
GENCY
’
S
P
ROJECT 
ID:
 P089289 
 
 
GEFSEC P
ROJECT 
ID:  
C
OUNTRY
:
Cameroon  
 
P
ROJECT 
T
ITLE
:
Sustainable Agro-Pastoral and 
Land Management Promotion Under the 
Community Development Support Program  
GEF A
GENCY
:
World Bank   
 
O
THER 
E
XECUTING 
A
GENCY
(
IES
): 
Ministry of 
Development, Planning and Programming 
 
D
URATION
:
4
years 
GEF F
OCAL 
A
REA
:
Land degradation 
GEF O
PERATIONAL 
P
ROGRAM
:
OP#15 
(Sustainable Land Management) 
GEF S
TRATEGIC 
P
RIORITY
:
Strategic Priorities #1 
(Targeted Capacity Building) and #2 
(Implementation of Innovative and Indigenous 
SLM Practices) 
Pipeline Entry Date:
 N/A
 
E
STIMATED 
S
TARTING 
D
ATE
:
April 2005 (PDF-B) 
PROJECT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
GEF C
OUNCIL  
S
UBMISSION
 
C
ONTRIBUTION TO 
K
EY 
I
NDICATORS OF THE 
B
USINESS 
P
LAN
:
The project will expand the areas 
which will be covered by a SLM regime by integrating sustainable land management into local 
development; introducing and implementing land-use plans and conflict resolution frameworks; as 
well as adopting legal texts on land-use rights.
R
ECORD OF ENDORSEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE 
G
OVERNMENT
(
S
): 
(Enter Name, Position, Ministry)
 Date
:
(Month, day, year)
 
Justin Nantchou Ngoko, GEF Focal Point, 
Ministry of Environment and Forests 
September 15, 2004 
 
FINANCING PLAN (US$)
 
GEF P
ROJECT
/C
OMPONENT
 
Project 6,000,000
PDF A 
     
PDF B 
350,000
PDF C 
     
Sub-Total GEF 
6,000,000
C
O
-
FINANCING
*
IDA 20,000,000
Government  
9,660,000
HIPC-multilaterals 27,200,000
France (C2D) 
25,000,000
Germany (KfW) 
8,750,000
Beneficiaries 1,390,000
Sub-Total Co-financing: 
92,000,000
Total Project Financing:
98,000,000
F
INANCING FOR 
A
SSOCIATED 
A
CTIVITIES 
I
F
A
NY
:
L
EVERAGED 
R
ESOURCES 
I
F
A
NY
:
*Details provided under the Financial Modality 
and Cost Effectiveness section
Approved on behalf of the 
World Bank
.
This proposal has been prepared in accordance with GEF 
policies and procedures and meets the standards of the GEF Project Review Criteria for work 
program inclusion 
 
Steve Gorman  
Executive Coordinator, The World Bank 
Project Contact Person:
 
Christophe Crepin (World Bank)
 
Tel. and email: 
202-473-9727, ccrepin@worldbank.org 
Date: August 22, 2005 
 
36847 
Page  2
2
I. PROJECT 
SUMMARY 
 
A. Project rationale 
 
Came
roon’s rural development and poverty reduction strategies emphasize the need to 
reverse stagnating agro-sylvo-pastoral productivity while safeguarding its rich natural 
resource base and unique biodiversity assets. However, efforts toward these goals are 
being seriously hampered by land degradation. Across many areas of Cameroon, land 
degradation is occurring in advanced stages. The root causes of land degradation can be 
categorized as: inappropriate land use, increased competition over land, unsustainable 
agricultural practices, overgrazing, and deforestation.  
 
To address land degradation challenges and achieve the goals identified by its PRSP, the 
Government of Cameroon is co-financing and borrowing for the multi-donor-financed 
National Community Development Support Program (PNDP). PNDP is a framework 
program for the Government to coordinate a number of projects and donor interventions 
aimed at strengthening local governance and capacity-building activities at the 
community and communal levels. The multi-donor financed Community Development 
Program Support Project (PAPNDP), the largest project under the PNDP, aims to set up a 
decentralized financing mechanism to ensure participatory community development in 
rural areas.   
 
The GEF alternative has been designed as a partially blended project to PAPNDP. GEF 
incremental activities closely parallel and complement each of the four components of the 
first phase of this APL project. Therefore, the proposed project’s implementation and 
execution arrangements would rely extensively on those of the PAPNDP.  
 
1. 
Rationale for GEF involvement  
 
The PAPNDP’s impact on combating land degradation would be limited and fragmented 
without GEF incremental funding, and SLM would not be emphasized sufficiently in 
either national sectoral or decentralized development planning. The scale and scope of 
activities to address land degradation under existing Government and donor commitments 
would be far too limited and only scattered attention would be given to this critical issue.  
The GEF project will catalyze widespread adoption of SLM practices in the agro-pastoral 
sector and promote increased cross-sectoral cooperation, leading to substantial global 
environmental benefits across GEF focal areas. GEF is uniquely positioned to support the 
proposed project’s objectives. It will significantly increase the capacity of local 
communities and decentralized service providers to integrate SLM into broader natural 
resource management planning at local and sub-regional levels. It will also create a more 
conducive policy environment and institutional framework for SLM. Finally, it will 
enhance national management information systems and GIS-based tools and database for 
monitoring land degradation and biodiversity trends and their relationship with rural 
development.   
 
Page  3
3
The proposed project would add value to the GEF’s existing portfolio of projects in 
Cameroon, while promoting a more coherent, integrated approach to address 
 
environmental and resource management challenges. Coordination will be enhanced in 
particular with the GEF supported Forestry and Environmental Sector Adjustment Credit 
(FESAC), through regular meetings on the preparation and implementation of annual 
work programs and common schedule for supervision missions. The proposed project 
will also facilitate synergies with other ongoing GEF activities in the country and region: 
Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin, and in the Lake 
Chad Basin Ecosystem.  With GEF support, the World Bank is currently incubating the 
TerrAfrica Partnership and the Strategic Investment Program for SLM in SSA (SIP). 
Both initiatives provide scale-up mechanisms which the proposed Cameroon GEF project 
on SLM will be in a position to leverage its impact, particularly in subsequent phases.  
 
Global environmental benefits include restoring the ecosystem health and the services the 
ecosystems will provide through increasing soil moisture and decreasing of erosion rate. 
Project interventions will also enhance the protection of classified forests and wildlife 
protected areas as result of land-use plans, new resource conflict management plans, and 
increased awareness targeted at riparian communities or those situated in buffer zones. 
 
2. Project 
objectives 
 
The project’s development objective
is to enable communities to contribute to reduce and 
prevent land degradation in critical areas. This will be achieved through the adoption of 
SLM practices and development of adequate capacity, tools, and mechanisms for 
communities. The project will contribute to reconciling the short-term objective of 
increased land productivity with long-term local, national, and global environmental 
objectives. 
 
The project’s global environmental objective
is to improve the well functioning of 
ecosystems by integrating SLM into local development and by decreasing biodiversity 
loss in fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral areas. As a result of GEF interventions, the project will 
contribute to rehabilitating degraded lands and curbing further degradation, reducing soil 
erosion, stabilizing sediment storage and release in critical trans-boundary water bodies 
such as Lake Chad and the Gulf of Guinea, and increasing vegetative cover and carbon 
sequestration in the targeted areas. ( Higher level objectives can be found at Annex D of 
PAD.) 
 
3. 
Project outputs/outcomes, components, and activities 
 
3.1 Project 
outcomes 
 
The project’s expected outcomes
are: (i) communities in critical, priority areas enabled to 
reduce and prevent land degradation, leading to improved functional integrity of 
ecosystems in targeted areas, and ultimately to increased productivity of agro-sylvo-
pastoral lands under management; (ii) stronger institutional and human capacities at the 
local and national levels in SLM planning and implementation; and (iii) more appropriate 
Page  4
4
enabling environment and stronger legal, institutional, and policy framework for SLM 
implementation.  
 
3.2 Project 
components 
 
The GEF project has three main components: (i) support for integration of SLM into local 
development; (ii) institutional support for enabling environment for SLM; and (iii) 
supporting project management and coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and 
communication. The components have been designed to accelerate investments in 
combating land degradation and to promote the development of capacity, tools, and 
mechanisms for communities’ ownership in this process.  
 
Component 1 - Integrated SLM into Local Development 
(Total US$ 70.83m; GEF 
US$ 3.890 m; co-financing US$ 66.94m)
The PAPNDP provides technical assistance to communes and communities to prepare 
their development plans in a participatory manner and to address their issues and needs. 
The development plans provide the basis for the selection and the design of micro-
projects. A non-exhaustive positive list of micro-projects (cf. Table 2 of Annex C) and a 
negative list (cf. Table 3 of Annex C) have been elaborated. The project intends to 
finance by project-end approximately 90 communal and 50 community micro-projects, 
with the maximum cost for each type of expenditure estimated at US$3,600,600, and 
US$400,000 respectively. Beneficiaries’ contributions will be the same for both 
communal and community micro-project: a 2% financial contribution and 8% 
contribution in kind (labor, material).  
 
Based on land-use and local development plans, and using an integrated landscape 
approach, the GEF
 
project will complement and co-finance community and communal-
driven micro-projects on SLM in their priority areas. The GEF component will help 
communities to slow and reverse land degradation while conserving unique biodiversity 
(including agro-sylvo-biodiversity), hence improving the productivity of the land. 
Building on Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) in the design and implementation of 
SLM practices, activities to be supported include financing micro-projects on SLM to 
reduce soil erosion and water runoff and to improve vegetative cover. Other GEF 
supported activities include promotion of sound technologies such as contour planting, 
renewal of degraded hillsides and pastures, ecologically sound water management, 
application of conservation tillage systems, tree planting, windbreaks, and grassed 
waterways.   
 
Main Outcomes:  
The main outcome of this component will be the promotion and adoption of good 
practices on sustainable land management by communes/communities, through proper 
implementation of demand-driven micro-projects. 
 
Component 2 
–
Institutional support for enabling environment for SLM 
(Total US$ 
11.17m; GEF US$ 1.33m; co-financing US$ 9.84m)
Page  5
5
Sub-Component 2.1 
–
Institutional support to the land reform process: 
The PNDP supports the decentralization process in Cameroon by strengthening local 
governance.  GEF resources will complement the actions of PAPNDP by focusing on 
development and reinforcement of policies, regulations, and institutional frameworks at 
national and decentralized levels to address land degradation and to mainstream SLM  
into rural development policy frameworks. The project will reinforce the capacity and 
accelerate the process of multi-sectoral coordination among key ministries to promote 
sound SLM policies, programs and guidelines. Building upon ongoing efforts by the 
Government, the project will support the review and adoption of legal text(s) on land use, 
with the objective of preparing and implementing land-use plans at the provincial and 
community levels, for rationalizing land use and tenure at the local level and emphasizing 
such factors as vulnerable soils, levels of soil fertility, arable land, fallow areas and agro-
sylvo-pastoral suitability. To this end, the project will foster dialogue between local 
government rural communities and their leaders, farmers, herders and other resource 
users and will enhance incentives for the adoption, replication, and sustainability of SLM 
practices. The GEF resources will finance workshops, training, study tours, studies, and 
consulting services.
 
Main Outcomes 
The main outcomes of this sub-component will be (i) a comprehensive policy and 
institutional framework to support SLM; (ii) strengthened awareness and coordination 
among key ministries to promote and mainstream sound SLM policies, programs, and 
guidelines; (iii) land-use planning and SLM integrated into zoning processes and GIS 
databases and maps; and (iv) land-use plans integrated at the local level. 
 
Sub-Component 2.2 – Enhancing capacity building at the local level: 
Under the PAPNDP, the capacity of communes will be strengthened through targeted 
training and programs (communal accounting, decentralization, conflict resolution, and 
local development) for elected decentralized authorities and commune staff.  The 
proposed GEF project will support land-use planning diagnostics and targeted 
environmental studies at the inter-community, and if necessary, at the communal level, 
focused on enhancing the implementation of integrated landscape or watershed 
management plans. These studies would directly feed into the subsequent design, 
development, and monitoring of micro-projects eligible under Component 1. They would 
take into account upstream-downstream linkages and hydrological flows where 
watersheds are the unit of analysis, as well as riparian zones, gallery forests, and buffer 
zones of protected areas. Support would also include s
etting up of participatory and conflict-
management processes among farmers, pastoralists, other resource users and community leaders. 
In addition, support will be provided to strengthen and promote local institutions that can 
sustain capacity at the local level, in particular inter-community associations focused on 
watershed management or SLM.  
 
Based on the baseline training supported by the PAPNDP, the GEF project will support 
capacity building of local communities on integrating SLM practices into local and 
Page  6
6
communal project planning, as well as related studies. This component will also facilitate 
the preparation and development of awareness-raising programs through local press, 
workshops and training seminars, for the benefit of targeted communes, communities, 
NGOs and concerned line-ministries. To the greatest extent possible, activities will 
promote locally appropriate technologies and customized approaches to land 
conservation and rehabilitation.  
 
Main Outcomes  
The outcomes of this sub-component will be (i) strengthened capacity of local 
communities in SLM good practices and (ii) increased capacity of NGOs and public 
extension agents for providing support on micro-projects. 
 
Component 3 
–
Supporting project management and coordination, monitoring and 
evaluation, and communication 
(Total US$ 16.0m; GEF US$ 0.78m; co-financing US$ 
15.22m)
The PAPNDP ensures project coordination through workshops and meetings aimed at 
better coordination among ministries, better liaisons with donors, and better national 
communication. It has set up (i) a computerized monitoring and evaluation system to 
follow activities in financial and technical terms and (ii) a knowledge management 
system for decision makers. Stakeholders at every level are involved in gathering, 
processing, analyzing, storing and disseminating the information required for transparent 
and efficient decision-making, and for sound financial and technical monitoring of 
activities.  
 
Under this component, the GEF project will benefit from PNDP’s management, 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and communication systems already in place. 
Land degradation and biodiversity parameters will be integrated into existing M&E 
systems already in place. It will be complemented by use of the GIS-based land-use 
zoning map and associated MIS, which will facilitate optimal replication of activities to 
areas most vulnerable to land degradation. This process will also provide a better handle 
on evaluating the impacts of various interventions on SLM. GEF resources will finance 
incremental project management and monitoring needs: workshops, office equipment and 
supplies, a vehicle, staff salaries for the accountant and SLM specialist, and related 
operational costs. 
 
Main Outcomes 
The main outcomes of this component will be (i) effective monitoring and evaluation; (ii) 
efficient and timely technical and financial progress reports; and (iii) dissemination of 
project impacts and results. 
 
B.  Key indicators, assumptions, and risks  
 
1. Key indicators 
 
Page  7
7
The key indicators
to be used in evaluating whether the project has achieved its proposed 
outcomes are: (i) number of hectares of land maintained and rehabilitated through SLM 
practices in project areas; (ii) decreased soil erosion rate (runoff coef.) in the project 
areas; (iii) increased vegetative cover in targeted areas; (iv) legal texts on land-use rights 
reviewed and adopted; (v) number of land-use plans being effectively implemented; (vi) 
number of land-use conflict resolution frameworks being effectively implemented in 
targeted areas (cf. Annex G for more details).  
 
2.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects 
 
The predominant risks are considered as minor to moderate, and should not have a 
substantial negative impact on the success of the project. These potential risks that may 
affect project success and their respective mitigation measures incorporated into project 
design are: 
 
(i)
 The existing legal framework
 might be tainted by the government’s possible 
unwillingness to implement land reform at the decentralized level. This will be addressed 
through development of awareness raising programs and the government’s (especially the 
concerned line ministries’) close involvement in the project implementation. Also, the 
risks related to the legal framework will be identified through a Review of Institutional, 
Legislative, and Policy Framework Bottlenecks for Proper SLM Implementation, and 
recommendations will be made accordingly during project preparation and 
implementation; 
 
(ii) 
Conflicts related to land use
 (including encroachment) might impair successful 
implementation of the micro-projects. The implementation of land-use plans will occur 
through a strong participatory approach, which should contribute to reducing conflicts. 
Furthermore, after undertaking discussions with the government, existing Conflict 
Management Frameworks will be strengthened and new ones will be set up during 
preparation as a tool for proper Project implementation, to address potential conflicts on 
land-use between agriculturalists, herders and foresters.  
 
(iii) 
The capacity of implementing agencies
 might be insufficient to support a 
successful implementation of SLM micro-projects. A Stakeholder Analysis and Capacity-
Building Assessment is currently underway, and will lead to the development of relevant 
capacity-building and training for the various stakeholders. Recommendations will be 
made on how the project can help address existing (capacity) gaps at the national level 
and promote a systematic national agenda for best SLM policies and practices through a 
coordinated and harmonized decision-making process on land-use related matters.  
 
(iv) 
Drought 
might be an impediment to efforts to promote sustainable land 
management, especially in the North Province and Adamaoua. In order to address this 
potential risk, the project will rely on lessons learned from other natural resource 
management projects that have addressed this issue successfully. 
 
II. COUNTRY 
OWNERSHIP 
Page  8
8
A. Country Eligibility 
 
Cameroon ratified the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) in 1997, the 
UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 1994, and the U.N. Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 1994. It is preparing a National Action 
Plan (NAP) under the UNCCD, which will be finalized at the end of 2005. It also adopted 
a
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) in 2002.  
 
B. Country Drivenness 
 
The Government’s National Action Plan to implement the UNCCD, and other 
strategies on land management.
 Initial steps and interim accomplishments for 
Cameroon in view of preparing its NAP are outlined in the 2004 Annual Progress Report 
on NAP Development to the UNCCD Secretariat; these include the inauguration of an 
inter-ministerial Coordination Committee to address land degradation and promote the 
implementation of the UNCCD in Cameroon. The NAP seeks to harmonize various 
initiatives addressing land degradation in concert with various stakeholders under a more 
coherent, and scientifically sound program. The NAP calls for investments in sustainable 
land management that can promote synergies between the three main environmental 
conventions, thereby addressing land degradation, biodiversity conservation, and climate 
change mitigation and adaptation. 
 
Cameroon has a functional foundation of policies, legislation, regulations, and 
partnerships upon which to build land management and soil conservation 
programs. 
The national Law No. 05/12 of 05/12/1996 outlines a national framework for 
environmental and integrated natural resources management. Despite the existence of this 
Law and the creation of an Inter-ministerial Environment Committee, environmental 
pressures and biodiversity loss remain acute. In response, the Government formulated a 
coherent strategy embodying the AGENDA 21 principles adopted in Rio in 1992. The 
Government has formulated a biodiversity strategy and an associated action plan. 
Implementation of this action plan will help promote sustainable management of the 
various ecosystems. 
 
Decree # 678, signed by the Prime Minister in 1995 and linked to Law 18/12 and 
Law 20/01 of 1994, sets the basis for establishing a zoning system for rational land 
use and complementary GIS maps for rational development.
 These activities would 
be supported under the PAPNDP-GEF operation through a participatory approach to 
spatial planning and development in the priority intervention zones.  Likewise, 
considerable interest exists among the Government of Cameroon and rural communities 
to address land degradation in a more concentrated, integrated way.  
 
However, 
Decree No. 74-1, dated July 6, 1974, is the only one to address the issue of 
land use and tenure. 
The implementation of this land-tenure legislation is difficult at the 
local level, as it is sometimes in contradiction with traditional land rights; thereby leading 
to potential conflicts, specifically with regards to encroachment, land damages resulting 
Page  9
9
from herding, and the non-existence or non-respect of zoning plans that determine 
agricultural and pastoral/grazing zones (cf. section D. 4. for further details). 
 
The Government of Cameroon is engaged in administrative decentralization.
 As 
stipulated in Law 74/23 and the 1996 constitution, the Government has begun to create 
decentralized entities. For example, the 
communes
,
which are governed by an elected 
mayor and council and are becoming the decentralized body closest to local communities, 
have begun to play a major role in local development, collecting, depositing and 
managing local resources.  
 
C. Country Strategy 
 
Cameroon’s Strategy Document for the Development of the Rural Sector 
of
February 2002 discusses the government’s goals of reducing rural poverty, promoting 
food security, increasing agricultural production, improving the quality of produce, and 
ensuring agricultural and environmental sustainability. It further elaborates upon four (4) 
central axes of achieving the stated objectives: (i) Modernize the agricultural production 
apparatus; (ii) Restructure the institutional framework; (iii) Create a legal environment 
conducive to rural development by promoting access to information and markets, and the 
development of rural infrastructure; and (iv) Promote the sustainable management of 
natural resources. 
 
The proposed project is in accordance with the objectives and axes in Cameroon’s 
Strategy Document, especially axis (iv). Axes (i), (ii), and (iii) will be addressed by the 
project as means of ensuring the effectiveness and sustainability of land management in 
the targeted Provinces. 
 
D.  Program and Policy Conformity 
 
1. 
Fit  To  GEF Operational Program  and strategic priority 
 
GEF Operational Policy #15 aims to catalyze partnerships with organizations, land users, 
and stakeholders to provide coordinated support at various levels to address land 
degradation under a “landscape” approach in a manner that achieves lasting global 
environment benefits. In addition, OP#15 strives to mitigate and prevent land degradation 
in order to maintain the “structure and functional integrity of ecosystems”. The proposed 
project strongly supports this aim. It will not only mitigate existing negative impacts of 
land degradation, but will also address the root causes, thereby advancing prevention 
strategies and contributing to restoring the productivity of natural resources in agro-
sylvo-pastoral areas. The proposed project is in line with OP#15 strategic priorities #1 
(Targeted Capacity Building) and #2 (Implementation of Innovative and Indigenous SLM 
Practices). Targeted capacity building will focus on integrated land-use planning, 
primarily at the local level (communities and communes). In addition, project activities 
will provide support at the national level for strengthening participatory institutional 
mechanisms and capacity for integrated land-use planning and implementation. Likewise, 
interventions in vulnerable areas, and the dissemination of practice SLM technologies 
Page  10
10
through co-funding of innovative, demand-driven micro-projects will be supported. In 
this way, land-resource management and conflict resolution mechanisms can be 
mainstreamed under a cross-sectoral approach. 
 
2. 
Sustainability (including financial sustainability) 
 
The sustainability of the project will be likely with the provision of incremental 
resources, appropriate decision-making tools, and capacity-building to beneficiaries. The 
participatory and community empowerment process will ensure a high degree of 
ownership and accountability. The combination of SLM mainstreaming, including 
improved cross-sectoral coordination mechanisms for SLM policy development and 
implementation, with on the ground results, will generate durable multiple global, 
national and local benefits that local actors will strive to maintain. GEF funding will 
contribute to preserving the ecological and economic value of land in critical areas, 
ensure that production is managed in an environmentally sustainable manner, and halt the 
deterioration and possible break-down of the functioning of important ecosystem services 
in priority areas. The reversal of land degradation trends will also ultimately lead to an 
increase in land productivity and an improvement in food security.  
 
Promotion of greater land security through the adoption and implementation of land-use 
plans, and training in sound land-use technologies and planning at multiple scales will 
help farmers and pastoralists plan with a longer-term perspective. GEF financed activities 
can also promote a higher effectiveness and sustainability of baseline interventions, 
maintaining a balance between improving rural livelihoods and infrastructure, on one 
hand, and protection of ecosystems and landscapes, on the other hand. The project will 
strive as much as possible to use local knowledge and indigenous species to enhance the 
viability of the agro-ecological systems. Practical applications by communities and 
producer groups will be supported in collaboration with local implementing agencies and 
technical agents.  
 
Institutional Sustainability. 
Given that PAPNDP has adopted a long-term Adaptable 
Program Loan (APL) approach, initial GEF-supported actions can further help with 
laying a solid foundation for an SLM policy and institutional framework and the 
validation of innovative approaches that can be replicated and scaled-up in subsequent 
phases. The PAPNDP further creates an enabling environment for the sustainability of 
the proposed project by strengthening the capacity of local institutions. It will ensure the 
sustainability of the benefits from the proposed project even after external donors leave.  
With the PAPNDP, community and commune institutional frameworks would be 
strengthened, thereby allowing the project interventions to become more sustainable. 
Increased local capacity is also expected to leverage additional donor funding for 
sustaina
ble land management. With Cameroon’s international credibility strengthened in 
terms of environmental governance, it will also increase donors’ interest in mobilizing 
long-term funding for sustainable land management in Cameroon. 
 
Through the PAPNDP, local capacities will be strengthened, thereby allowing the 
proposed project to benefit from effective local institutions. The groundwork undertaken 
Page  11
11
by PAPNDP will also be reinforced by capacity building efforts undertaken by the 
proposed project. In effect, GEF incremental funding will build capacity and support 
innovative implementation of SLM best practices in local and communal development 
planning, thereby strengthening the overall impact of the PAPNDP. An institutional and 
capacity assessment of key concerned agencies will be conducted with the objective of 
highlighting, among other things, factors affecting their sustainability, and will help 
determine means of addressing them. The capacity and sustainability of these institutions 
will be further strengthened through the various training and workshops planned. The 
Steering Committee would provide the concerned ministries and other stakeholders with 
the conceptual, administrative, and technical expertise related to SLM to scale-up such 
initiatives and thus promote greater sustainability of actions undertaken by these 
institutions.  
 
3. Replicability 
 
Interventions to be advanced under the GEF operation appear to have a great potential for 
replicability. The GEF project will profit from the multi-donor cooperation and sound 
enabling environment paved through IDA’s previous and ongoing engagements under the 
framework of the PNDP. PNDP should continue to expand for many years to come, to 
eventually cover Cameroon’s entire territory. GEF incremental activities can thus pilot, 
validate, and/or replicate sound approaches to SLM through a vehicle that  holds promise 
for national coverage and ready potential for scale-up. In this way, the benefits and 
synergies of the PNDP-GEF operations can be rapidly amplified within a sustainable 
development framework. The TerrAfrica Partnership and the Strategic Investment 
Program for SLM in SSA (SIP) could lend scale-up mechanisms to replicate the best 
practices achieved under the first phase of the proposed GEF project.  
 
An important part of the replication and continuance of the outputs of the projects will 
depend on the capacity of the institutions in this sector. The project will help the 
responsible government bodies to evolve towards a policy development, advisory and 
monitoring role and provide strategic directions to the sector while allowing the private 
sector, producer groups, communities, local government and other stakeholders to 
undertake direct activities such as natural resource management, investment and 
marketing. 
 
4. Stakeholder Involvement 
 
The proposed project aims to contribute to a sustainable improvement of the living 
conditions of the rural populations, in particular the most underprivileged. To ensure that 
policies and micro-projects contribute to local sustainable development, civil society, 
local small holders, the private sector, NGOs and community groups will be involved at 
all stages of project development and implementation. Components focus on stakeholder 
needs, targeting capacity strengthening and empowerment for the long-term uptake of 
sustainable land-use practices. Stakeholder groups include: (i) local communities, 
community organizations and producer organizations who will benefit from capacity 
building and the application of SLM technology packages; (ii) indigenous and minority 
Page  12
12
groups such as the Pygmies and Bororos; (iii) NGOs, community organizations, and 
private sector agencies; (iv) government agencies (at the center, provincial and district 
levels); and (v) the related research institutions. 
 
The project will develop a landscape approach to implement proposed activities on land 
degradation. Therefore, apart from communities in micro-sheds, rural communes will be 
the main beneficiaries of the project’s interventions. Individuals in rural communities 
within the targeted areas would form community-based organizations, where all 
stakeholders would meet with a self-appointed secretariat to organize meetings, assess 
their needs, and prepare local development plans in a participatory manner. Local 
communities will then submit for approval their proposals for co-financing micro-
investments at the provincial (for communal and inter-communal micro-projects) or 
communal (for communities’ micro-projects) decision committees set in the GEF priority 
intervention areas. 
 
In addition to addressing development issues related to the pygmy populations in the 
project area through the implementation of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan 
(IPDP), the GEF project is also carrying out a stakeholder analysis.
 
The study consists of 
a
detailed analysis, capacity building assessment, and development of capacity-building 
training programs, both at national and local levels. Given the complementarity of its 
interventions with PAPNDP, the GEF project will draw on PAPNDP’s organizational 
structure and focus its support on training of IPs in (i) sustainable land management as 
part of the preparation of local action plans and communal development plans to ensure 
that Baka, Kola and Aka can participate effectively in the planning and implementation 
of micro-projects; and (ii) the establishment and maintenance of community forests or 
traditional hunting zones based on demand. 
 
5. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
The following major outcomes will be achieved by project completion: (i) sustainable 
land management practices have been adopted and implemented by communities through 
micro-projects; (ii) a comprehensive policy and institutional framework to support 
sustainable agro-ecological activities has been prepared and implemented in a 
participatory manner; (iii) land-use planning and sustainable land management (SLM) 
have been integrated into zoning processes with the use of GIS databases and maps (at 
the regional level), and land-use plans have been adopted and implemented (at the local 
level, within the targeted Provinces); (iv) the capacity and coordination among key 
ministries have been strengthened to promote sound SLM policies, programs and 
guidelines (at the national level); (v) the capacity of local communities in SLM good 
practices, and of NGOs’ ability to provide support on micro-projects (at the local level), 
have been strengthened; and (vi) project impacts and results have been monitored and 
disseminated.  
 
The strategy developed for the project’s monitoring and evaluation system is based on the 
project’s Results Framework (see PAD - Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring), 
and on lessons learned from a series of Bank-financed natural resource management 
Page  13
13
projects. Participation of key stakeholders will be maximized; they will be involved in the 
project preparation and implementation phases. Consolidated M&E reports would be 
submitted to the Bank and independent mid-term evaluations will be undertaken by the 
PMU; recommendations from both sets of reports will provide the project with feedback 
to adjust project activities and future interventions, thereby ensuring the success of the 
project’s implementation.    
 
E.  Institutional Coordination and Support 
 
1. 
Core Commitments and Linkages 
 
The proposed project will complement the multi-donor National Community 
Development Support Program (PNDP), which enjoys robust, multi-donor support and 
cooperation. Sustainable land management (SLM) would appear to be an important 
element for meeting the broader goals of consolidating food security and improving rural 
livelihoods.
 
Given the linkages between static poverty and land degradation, there is 
wisdom in accelerating investments in SLM via a broad, national community 
development program such as PNDP. Although, the project is not co-financed with other 
donors, the team will develop as necessary close collaboration with institutions involved 
in SLM initiatives, especially in the North and Adamaoua provinces.   
 
2. 
Project Implementation Arrangement 
 
Since the GEF project will be partially blended with the PAPNDP (
Projet d’Appui au 
PNDP
), its implementation and execution arrangements will rely extensively on those of 
PAPNDP. Accordingly, the Ministry of Public Investment will have institutional 
responsibility for the project, and will be the agency accountable to the Government of 
Cameroon
 and the World Bank for the project’s proper execution and supervision. This 
overarching structure will increase the likelihood of project success, as detailed in Annex 
F
(Incremental Cost Analysis section “GEF Alternative Scenario”). Other intervening 
structures are: (i) Ministries and PNDP’s Steering Committee; (ii) PNDP’s Project 
Management Unit (PMU); (iii) Local Communes and Communities; and (iv) Local 
Implementing Agencies. For further details, please refer to Annex E. 
Page  14
14
ANNEX 
A: I
NCREMENTAL 
C
OST 
A
NALYSIS
 
1. Context 
 
Cameroon’s rural development and poverty reduction strategies emphasize the need to 
reverse stagnating agro-sylvo-pastoral productivity while safeguarding its rich natural 
resource base and unique biodiversity assets. However, efforts toward these goals are 
being seriously hampered by land degradation. Across many areas of Cameroon, land 
degradation is occurring in advanced stages, due to both natural and anthropogenic 
causes. The root causes of this degradation vary greatly from one agro-climatic region to 
another (see Annex 1 for details), yet, in general, the main causes of land degradation can 
be categorized as: inappropriate land use, increased competition over land, unsustainable 
agricultural practices, overgrazing, and deforestation. Deteriorating land quality is most 
prevalent where people lack land tenure security and/or water rights, thus having little or 
no incentive to invest in land management and soil and water conservation practices.  
 
The Government supports policies and investments that can reverse the serious land 
degradation that is occurring, strengthen biodiversity conservation efforts, advance the 
administrative decentralization agenda, and better integrate natural resource and 
sustainable land management principles into local, regional, and national planning 
processes. Likewise, considerable interest exists among the Government of Cameroon 
and rural communities to address land degradation in a more concerted way. To illustrate 
this commitment, the Government has taken some steps to promote more rational land-
use planning and macro-level zoning plans, and to establish an inter-ministerial 
coordination mechanism to oversee the implementation of the U.N. Convention to 
Combat Desertification. At the same time, while the value of an integrated landscape 
approach toward land-use planning is recognized, a number of barriers have precluded 
the ability to translate this approach into action on the ground. These barriers include: 
 
Limited funding mechanisms for SLM
.
Advances on the government’s decentralization 
agenda and the inception of the PAPNDP have recently made it possible to finance SLM 
activities with broad national coverage under a highly participatory model. Financing is 
generally very scarce for rural communities to undertake small-scale natural resource 
management activities whose agglomeration could quickly achieve a positive global 
environmental impact. The few decentralized development program precedents in the 
area of natural resource management that have occurred either were limited in 
geographical scope, or did not address land degradation in a comprehensive or holistic 
way. 
 
Lack of technical knowledge and capacity among communities
.
While both climatic 
and demographic factors are among the root causes of land degradation, lack of 
appropriate land-use planning and management skills among communities compounds 
the situation and is most immediately open to improvement. The current capacity of local 
communities to effectively manage the natural resources contained within their lands is 
very limited. Given adequate support for capacity building, best practice SLM techniques 
for reducing soil erosion, improving soil fertility, and regenerating biomass in arid and 
Page  15
15
semi-arid areas could be used more extensively. Such practices would also have a 
positive impact on reducing greenhouse emissions and increasing carbon sequestration in 
soils and agricultural lands.  
 
Weaknesses in the policy environment and legal framework for SLM and 
decentralized implementation of land-use plans
.
The process of decentralization is still in its early stages. Weaknesses in the legal 
framework and policy environment, particularly relating to land tenure and security, can 
discourage investments in sustainable land management. Limited cross-sectoral co-
ordination has further hampered mainstreaming of SLM policies. Likewise, low capacity 
of communities and local governments to undertake natural resources management 
activities can aggravate existing human migration pressures that can ultimately be 
destabilizing. Implementation 
of Cameroon’s current land tenure laws has proved 
difficult on the ground, and incongruence with traditional land rights has induced a 
number of conflicts, specifically with regard to encroachment, damages resulting from 
herding, and the non-existence or non-respect of zoning plans for agricultural and 
pastoral/grazing areas and protected areas for wildlife.  
 
Limited information basis for long-term monitoring of land degradation and 
biodiversity conservation
 
Exacerbating this is the limited information basis for long-term monitoring of land 
degradation and its socio-economic impacts, particularly in the rural space. Most 
decisions and interventions on land-use planning and natural resources management are 
made on limited local information, leading to poor resource rationalization. 
 
Lack of innovative, holistic approaches to SLM in the context of rural poverty 
reduction
.
The environmental and socio-economic challenges facing poor rural 
communities in Cameroon are inter-connected, and demand a holistic approach balancing 
the ecological, economic, social, and financial needs of communities. These approaches 
have heretofore been limited or lacking on a national scale. As the underlying outlook for 
growth continues to improve and the process of land degradation continues to become 
increasingly severe, it has become critical to integrate SLM and biodiversity conservation 
principles into local development planning. Adopting these at an early stage may be 
pivotal to precluding irreversible environmental damage or species loss.  
 
2. Project Overview 
 
This four-year GEF funded project encompasses a suite of incremental activities enabled 
with the addition of US $6 million to the World Bank-financed Community Development 
Program Support Project (PAPNDP). The project will proceed in tandem with and 
complement all of the four components of the PAPNDP, which is co-financed by IDA 
and the French Development Agency (AFD). It will also complement aspects of other 
baseline projects under the umbrella framework of the Community Development 
Program (PNDP), supported by the KfW and the African Development Bank, among 
others. For example, the KfW are funding a parallel PNDP support project in the Extreme 
Page  16
16
North Province (7 Million Euro for the initial phase) that includes a component on natural 
resource management.   
 
The project aims to enable communities to combat land degradation and biodiversity loss, 
thereby helping to sustain long-term land productivity. In line with the strategic priorities 
of the GEF OP #15, the global environmental objective of the GEF alternative project is 
to promote sustainable land management and decrease biodiversity loss in fragile agro-
sylvo-pastoral ecosystems. Interventions will address the GEF focal area of land 
management and, to a lesser degree, biodiversity conservation. The GEF project will 
remove some of the major institutional, financial, and technical barriers to making greater 
investments in reversing land degradation and promote the development of greater 
capacity, tools, and mechanisms for community ownership of this process. The project 
has three components: (i) support for local development; (ii) institutional support for 
enabling environment for SLM; and (iii) supporting project management and 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and communication.  
 
The incremental GEF activities will contribute to reducing soil erosion, stabilizing 
sediment storage and release in critical water bodies, and increasing vegetative cover and 
carbon sequestration in the targeted areas.  The incremental cost for community based 
innovative SLM investments, technical assistance, and capacity building activities 
associated with these objectives are identified by comparing the baseline scenario and the 
GEF alternative scenarios. The baseline scenario represents the impacts that likely would 
result from ongoing implementation of the PAPNDP in the four provinces targeted by the 
GEF project, and the outcomes associated with other associated interventions directly or 
indirectly intended to enhance natural resource and sustainable land management in those 
areas. The baseline can be constructed by examining the intended impacts of 
implementing the PAPNDP without incremental GEF resources, as well as other 
activities under the framework of the PNDP.  
 
3. Baseline Scenario 
 
PNDP is a framework program for the Government of Cameroon to coordinate a number 
of complementary projects and donor interventions aimed at strengthening local 
governance and realizing demand-driven subprojects and capacity-building activities at 
the community and communal level. The multi-donor financed Community Development 
Program Support Project (PAPNDP), the largest project under the PNDP, aims to achieve 
the goals of the PNDP by setting up a decentralized financing mechanism to ensure 
participatory community development in rural areas. PAPNDP is structured as an APL 
and would be implemented in three phases of four years each; the first phase would cover 
five of Cameroon’s ten provinces: South, Centre, West, Adamaoua, North, and Extreme 
North. The key expected outputs of PAPNDP are: (i) a system for channeling funds to 
rural communities to finance prioritized collective infrastructures; (ii) stronger capacity 
of communities and local governments to plan and manage their own development; and 
(iii) an improved legal and regulatory frameworks for decentralized rural development. 
Communities and communes will be engaged in a participatory appraisal of their needs, 
leading to the preparation of local development plans and the implementation of micro-
Page  17
17
projects co-financed by the PNDP. The second phase of the PNDP will maintain support 
to communities involved in the first phase but will extend the reach of the first phase 
actions to all provinces and new communities. Similar programs under the PNDP are 
being financed by the German Development Cooperation -  KfW in the Extreme North.   
 
In addition to the activities under the PNDP, a number of projects concerning natural 
resource management, and more specifically, forestry resources and protected areas 
management, are underway in Cameroon. Among the most significant of these ongoing 
projects are: 
-
the project Gestion Sécurisée des Espaces Pastoraux (GESEP), active in the 
Extreme-North, North, and Adamaoua Provinces, funded by the French 
Cooperation (Service de Coopération et d’Actions Culturelles-SCAC) via the 
Fonds de Solidarité Prioritaire (FSP). GESEP’s objectives are to: (i) revive the 
existing conflict resolution commissions in order to ensure land security for 
pastoralists; (ii) conduct training on integrated agriculture and livestock 
production; (iii) reinforce the capacity in SLM of the provincial representatives 
of the MINEPIA; and (iv) promote fruitful dialogue among various natural 
resource users. GESEP, in collaboration with the federation of herders in the 
North Province and Adamaoua, is actively involved in improving pastoral areas 
and implementing measures to reverse land degradation;     
-
the AFD-supported “Eau, Sol, Arbre” projects in the Extreme North Province 
(6.5 million Euros, expected closure in 2006), aimed at sustainable management 
of rural lands; 
-
the AFD supported Decentralized Local Development in West-Bénoué in the 
Northern Province (12 million Euros, expected closure in 2006), which supports 
building rural and pastoral water supply facilities as well as agricultural 
development; 
-
the GTZ/KfW-financed natural resource management micro-finance project in 
the Southwest and Eastern Provinces, and the GTZ-financed national parks and 
forestry management project in the Southeast of Cameroon (5 million Euros); and  
-
The IDA and GEF-supported Forestry and Environmental Sector Adjustment 
Credit (FESAC) and Forest Sector Management and Reform Project (PFSE), 
which is under development and would mainly intervene in the Southern and 
Eastern areas of the country.  
 
These projects should not be formally considered part of the baseline scenario, however, 
for the following reasons: (i) many these projects would be winding down in the period in 
which the GEF project would be commencing (late 2006); (ii) target areas and 
populations of the project interventions fall outside of the four targeted provinces for the 
GEF project; (iii) none of these projects plans to actively work in the priority sites that 
have been pre-identified for the SLM GEF project;  and (iv) many interventions are 
narrowly focused on forestry sector management and deforestation, rather than land 
degradation or sustainable land management 
per se
.
The PAPNDP channels grants to rural community-based organizations and rural 
communes to co-finance priority micro-projects that reduce poverty by addressing their 
Page  18
18
priority needs. Eligible micro-projects may be in the domain of collective social 
investments (e.g. schools), public infrastructure (e.g. storage facilities, market stalls), 
rural finance (e.g. improving micro-finance institutions), and natural resources 
management. Thus, the PAPNDP already aims to allocate a small percentage of funds to 
leverage community involvement in natural resource management. Micro-projects 
supported under this window would focus on elementary natural resource management 
activities, such as the development of water management plans and water collection 
infrastructure and the establishment of community forestry initiatives. Yet communities 
in rural areas rarely prioritize natural resource management in local development plans, 
all else being equal, given the existence of high levels of poverty and more immediate 
challenges, such as access to potable water or basic medical services. In addition, rural 
populations often either perceive land degradation to be a longer-term issue not 
necessitating constant or near-term investments, or they fail to fully understand its 
adverse impacts (whether direct or indirect) on their welfare. It is unlikely that 
communities would prioritize investments in SLM, particularly those with longer-term 
payback periods.  
 
Due to the material, technical and financial resource constraints, under a purely demand-
driven approach only a handful of micro-projects co-financed under the PAPDNP (i.e. 
less than 25) would be realized that would directly
contribute to combatting land 
degradation. The overall impact of these projects on the environment and land quality 
would be limited. In addition, the few investments that would be realized in the domain 
of natural resource management would likely be too fragmented or widely dispersed to 
address broader ecosystem challenges at the landscape level.  
 
In terms of the policy environment, the baseline scenario would see some scattered 
attention by the Government and donors to advancing sustainable land management. 
However, the earmarked resources would be inadequate in relation to the magnitude and 
severity of the problem. Land degradation issues would be addressed largely th
rough ‘top 
down’ national strategies and highly centralized planning and coordination processes that 
are not sufficiently mainstreamed into local development planning or decentralized 
decision-making. For example, some of the efforts toward achieving SLM may be 
effectuated through macro-level zoning plans; however, these plans can often be out of 
sync with existing land uses, priorities, and economic and socio-political realities on the 
ground. Given the limited resources available to the Government specifically dedicated to 
the issue, SLM issues would not likely be advanced in any coherent or holistic way, but 
rather on a more 
ad
hoc
 basis, with questionable sustainability. Current efforts underway 
to promote more rational land-use would evolve only slowly, taking several more years to 
achieve national coverage than if more resources were available. 
 
Under the PAPNDP, 
capacity building support will be provided to assist in the 
preparation of local and communal development plans and subprojects, and 
implementation. NGOs or technical agents would be contracted to strengthen the 
beneficiaries’ capacity to implement subprojects by providing training in community-
based procurement, financial management, and project management. Limited capacity 
building will target natural resource management, as a function of the expected limited 
Page  19
19
demand for such subprojects. Therefore, in the baseline scenario, SLM strategies and 
investments are very unlikely to be integrated into decentralized development plans, and 
the depth of local capacity in SLM would continue to remain shallow. In addition, a 
number of successful land management practices would fail to be widely disseminated or 
replicated due to limited means of service providers and NGOs to work with interested 
communities.  
 
As a result of these factors, Cameroon would continue to experience significant ongoing 
land degradation and further decreases in the diversity of biological resources in agro-
sylvo-pastoral lands, and the quality of natural resources therein. Threatened biodiversity 
contained in the fragile ecosystems lying in the GEF priority zones could likewise 
become even more critically endangered.
 
The country’s most vulnerable provinces would 
continue to face progressive depletion of water resources and declining fertility of 
agricultural soils, increased conflict between pastoralists and farmers, intensification of 
agricultural production, and the encroachment of human settlements on natural habitats.
 
Few meaningful environmental benefits at either the national or the global level would be 
realized under the baseline interventions. These trends would undermine the likelihood of 
achieving the goals set by the Rural Development Strategy and, by extension, the 
Cameroonian PRSP. 
 
4. GEF Alternative Scenario 
 
GEF incremental activities will significantly increase the capacity of local communities 
and decentralized service providers to incorporate SLM and broader natural resource 
management considerations into local and sub-regional planning. In addition, the project 
will create a more conducive policy environment and institutional framework for SLM. 
Finally, incremental activities will enhance national management information systems 
and GIS-based tools and databases for monitoring land degradation and biodiversity 
trends and their relationship with rural development.  The result of these integrated SLM 
activities will be a measurable gain in the total area of land under sustainable 
management as well as measurable reductions in existing biodiversity loss in the targeted 
areas, thereby contributing to the rehabilitation of fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral ecosystems.  
Global environmental benefits will include an increase in vegetative cover compared to 
the baseline and associated improvements in soil fertility as measured through: (i) ph; (ii) 
NPK; (iii) soil moisture; and/or (iv) improvement of erosion rate. In addition, project 
interventions in some cases would enhance the existing level of protection of some 
classified forests and wildlife protected areas as a result of land-use plans, new resource 
conflict management plans, and increased awareness targeted at riparian communities or 
those situated in buffer zones. 
 
The GEF alternative has been designed as a partially blended project to the existing 
multi-donor financed Community Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP). 
Therefore, the project’s implementation and execution arrangements would rely 
extensively on those of the PAPNDP, whose first phase will have already been under 
implementation for two years at GEF project entry. GEF incremental activities would 
closely parallel and complement each component of the PAPNDP; this integration would 
Page  20
20
improve the design of all four PAPNDP components, while complementing aspects of 
other projects under the broader PNDP, namely the German-financed decentralized 
development support program for the Extreme North province.  
 
This overarching structure will increase the likelihood of project success, since: (i) 
communities in targeted areas will be in a better position to address less immediate 
concerns related to land degradation, as baseline activities under PAPNDP will help 
support their basic needs and the construction of priority infrastructure; (ii) GEF activities 
will benefit from the PNDP’s existing cross-sectoral institutional framework as well as 
the PAPNDP’s existing management structures and logistics support at both national and 
regional levels; (iii) decentralized investments will facilitate a more systematic 
implementation of Cameroon’s priorities under the UN Convention to Combat 
Desertification (UNCCD), UN Convention on Biological Diversity (UNCBD), and the 
UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and help to create synergies 
among these national strategies relating to fulfilling its commitments.  
 
The GEF project will result in the integration of innovative SLM practices into local 
development investments and increased capacity at decentralized levels for integrated 
land-use planning. GEF incremental activities will enable communities in priority areas 
(encompassing some of the country’s populations that are most vulnerable to the effects 
of land degradation) to engage in SLM planning processes and to design, implement, and 
monitor related micro-investment activities. The 
primary
 vehicle to achieve these results 
will be financial and technical support for community-driven plans and micro-projects 
that can simultaneously address priority needs and promote sustainable land management 
and biodiversity conservation. Sites will be selected for priority GEF interventions on the 
basis of strict criteria in four (4) targeted Provinces: North, Adamaoua, West and Center.  
 
Project objectives would also be achieved through the following other main incremental 
activities: 
-
Policy advisory in the review and adoption of legal texts on land use; 
-
Support for the adoption/implementation of participatory, integrated land-use 
plans and micro-zoning within targeted areas at the communal and community 
levels, integrating SLM and biodiversity conservation considerations; 
-
Capacity building and accelerated coordination among key ministries, institutions 
and other stakeholders to create an enabling environment and improved policy 
and institutional framework for SLM; 
-
Setting up of participatory and conflict-management processes among farmers, 
pastoralists, other resource users and community leaders; 
-
Strengthening the capacity of NGOs and local implementing agencies and 
technical agents with respect to SLM and land-use planning, including training in 
use of GIS-based tools (e.g., databases, maps); and 
-
Improving M&E systems for analyzing land degradation trends and associated 
socio-economic impacts in the rural space. 
 
A
more detailed view of incremental activities by component is provided in the table 
below.  
Page  21
21
 
T
ABLE 
1: 
ACTIVITIES FINANCED BY IDA AND BY GEF
Activities financed by IDA 
Activities financed by GEF 
Component 1: Integrating SLM into Local Development 
1
¾
Co-financing of public micro-projects 
and community infrastructure 
¾
Promotion of  water management 
infrastructure and soil conservation 
techniques 
 
¾
Co-financing, and assisting communities in the 
implementation of demand driven, incremental 
micro-projects on integrated, SLM practices. These 
may include, 
inter alia
,
establishment of 
windbreaks and buffer strips, rehabilitation of 
wetlands; improved management of livestock and 
agricultural wastes; development of community-
based rangeland and bushfire management 
programs, and alien species control programs. 
Some activities might consist in piloting results of 
innovative SLM practices introduced by national 
and local research institutions.  
Component 2: Institutional support for enabling environment for SLM 
Sub-Component 2.1 
–
Institutional support to the land reform process 
¾
Finalization of legal framework for 
decentralized governance 
¾
Capacity building for Councils in local 
development and financial management 
¾
Sensitization on decentralization 
 
¾
Policy advisory in the review and adoption of 
legal texts on land use. 
¾
Support for the adoption/implementation of land-
use plans within targeted areas at the communal 
and community levels.  
¾
Strengthen capacity and accelerate coordination 
among key ministries, institutions and other 
stakeholders to create an enabling environment and 
improved policy and institutional framework for 
SLM. 
¾
Build awareness on SLM policies and programs 
through   workshops at national and decentralized 
levels.  
¾
Integration of SLM and biodiversity 
conservation considerations, and GIS-based tools 
(e.g., databases, maps) into land-management 
planning and micro-zoning processes.  
 
Sub-Component 2.2 – Enhancing capacity building at the local level 
¾
Support the elaboration of local 
development plans   
¾
Support identification and analysis of 
revenue increasing micro-projects 
¾
Support to poverty alleviating micro-
project implementation  
¾
Community training and outreach 
 
¾
Support communities, communes, and Councils 
to develop and implement participatory integrated 
land management plans. 
¾
Identify and conserve biological diversity critical 
for sustainable exploitation of agro-sylvo-pastoral 
lands. 
¾
Promote public awareness in targeted 
communities regarding land degradation impacts 
and SLM good practices. 
¾
Setting up of participatory and conflict-
management processes among farmers, 
pastoralists, other resource users and community 
Page  22
22
leaders. 
¾
Production and dissemination of materials on 
innovative SLM practices and lessons learned. 
¾
Promote reliance on native species, indigenous 
knowledge and use of innovative SLM 
technologies. 
¾
Strengthen capacity of NGOs and local 
implementing agencies and technical agents with 
respect to SLM and land-use planning. 
 
Component 3: Supporting project management and coordination, monitoring and evaluation 
and communication 
¾
training to strengthen national 
coordination 
¾
Sound management of information 
related to project implementation and 
impacts 
¾
Accounting and financial monitoring 
 
¾
Enhance spatial and temporal monitoring of 
land-use changes and linked environmental and 
socio-economic impacts. 
¾
Improve national M&E systems for analyzing 
land degradation trends and associated socio-
economic impacts. 
¾
Support analyses to better understand the costs 
and benefits of various SLM interventions in 
different sub-regional, agro-climatic, and socio-
economic contexts. 
¾
Monitoring project impacts with respect to land 
degradation and biodiversity in targeted areas.  
Page  23
Expected global environmental benefits of the project include: 
-
Increased number of  region’s most vulnerable communities capacitated to 
effectively contribute to combating land degradation  
-Restoration, protection, or conservation of fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral ecosystems 
by increasing area of land maintained and rehabilitated under SLM practices 
-
Increased agro-biodiversity in targeted fragile agro-sylvo-pastoral ecosystems, 
(as measured by either re-emergence of tree crop species or increase in the 
number of species per unit plot in GEF priority zones versus control areas, 
whichever is most applicable).   
-
Reduction in methane gas emissions and increased carbon sequestration in soils 
and biomass  
-
Reduction in soil erosion, stabilizing sediment storage and release in 
transboundary water bodies such as Lake Chad and the Gulf of Guinea. 
-
Benefits from global biodiversity use more equitably shared and indigenous 
knowledge effectively incorporated into global environmental conservation 
efforts 
 
Incremental national and local benefits of the GEF alternative include:  
-
Positive externalities, in terms of maintaining or boosting rural land productivity;  
-
Promotion of alternative livelihood strategies for the rural poor;  
-
Strengthened local capacity for natural resources and sustainable land 
management, including pasturelands and community forest resources; and 
-
Strengthened central and decentralized institutional capacity for sustainable land 
management. 
 
GEF support will also catalyze additional support from the donor community for 
sustainable land management in Cameroon, particularly for the second and third phases 
of the PNDP. This will allow for broader coverage of project interventions and accelerate 
the development of sound institutional capacity and policies for sustainable land 
management. The project will also facilitate synergies with other ongoing GEF-supported 
activities in Cameroon and the West/Central Africa region, thereby bolstering the 
likelihood of achieving different but complementary global environmental objectives to 
rehabilitate the broader sub-regional ecosystems. Among these synergistic projects are: 
Forestry and Environmental Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC), Reversing Land and 
Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin, and Reversal of Land and Water 
Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem. 
 
Incremental Cost Calculations. 
The budget for the GEF project is $ 6.00 M, of which 
$3.89 M
 is for the financial support to local development subprojects (component 1), 
$1.33 M
 is for institutional support for an enabling environment for SLM (component 2), 
and $0.78
 M is for supporting project management and coordination, monitoring and 
evaluation, and communication (component 3). Thus, the total incremental cost of the 
GEF activities is about 6.12% of the total costs of all of the baseline activities under the 
PNDP. A detailed breakdown of these costs is provided below. A breakdown of the cost 
components by contributors and an estimate of GEF incremental costs as a percentage of 
total project cost are also provided in Table 1.
 
Page  24
1
T
A
B
L
E
1
:
I
n
c
r
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
C
o
s
t
M
a
t
r
i
x
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
I
D
A
G
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
o
f
C
a
m
e
r
o
o
n
B
e
n
e
f
i
c
i
a
r
i
e
s
B
i
l
a
t
e
r
a
l
(
F
r
a
n
c
e
a
n
d
G
e
r
m
a
n
y
)
G
E
F
T
o
t
a
l
G
E
F
I
n
c
r
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
s
P
e
r
c
e
n
t
a
g
e
o
f
T
o
t
a
l
1
.
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
n
g
S
L
M
i
n
t
o
L
o
c
a
l
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
1
0
.
0
0
(
P
A
P
N
D
P
)
1
.
9
4
P
A
P
N
D
P
)
2
7
.
2
0
(
H
I
P
C
D
e
b
t
R
e
l
i
e
f
)
3
.
3
3
(
F
E
I
C
O
M
)
1
.
3
9
(
1
.
0
0
f
o
r
P
A
P
N
D
P
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
+
0
.
3
9
f
o
r
G
E
F
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
1
4
.
3
3
(
A
F
D
/
M
O
F
A
)
8
.
7
5
(
K
f
W
)
(
D
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
l
o
c
a
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
n
E
x
t
r
e
m
e
N
o
r
t
h
)
3
.
8
9
7
0
.
8
3
5
.
5
%
2
.
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
f
o
r
a
n
e
n
a
b
l
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
L
M
4
.
4
5
(
P
A
P
N
D
P
)
2
.
3
6
(
2
.
3
5
f
o
r
P
A
P
N
D
P
+
0
.
0
1
f
o
r
G
E
F
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
0
.
0
0
3
.
0
3
(
A
F
D
/
M
O
F
A
)
1
.
3
3
1
1
.
1
7
1
1
.
9
%
3
.
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
,
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
a
n
d
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
,
a
n
d
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
5
.
5
5
(
P
A
P
N
D
P
)
2
.
0
3
(
2
,
0
0
f
o
r
P
A
P
N
D
P
+
0
.
0
2
8
5
f
o
r
G
E
F
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
)
0
.
0
0
7
.
6
4
(
A
F
D
/
M
O
F
A
)
0
.
7
8
1
6
.
0
0
0
.
5
%
T
o
t
a
l
2
0
.
0
0
3
6
.
8
6
1
.
3
9
3
3
.
7
5
6
.
0
0
9
8
.
0
0
6
.
1
2
%
U
n
i
t
s
:
U
S
D
$
M
Page  25
T
a
b
l
e
2
:
D
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
I
n
c
r
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
C
o
s
t
M
a
t
r
i
x
a
n
d
C
o
m
p
a
r
i
s
o
n
o
f
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
a
n
d
G
E
F
A
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
I
n
c
r
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
C
o
s
t
\0d
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
S
c
e
n
a
r
i
o
(
P
A
P
N
D
P
+
A
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
u
n
d
e
r
P
A
P
N
D
P
)
A
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
S
c
e
n
a
r
i
o
w
i
t
h
G
E
F
A
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
D
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
E
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
,
S
o
c
i
a
l
,
a
n
d
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
B
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
1
.
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
n
g
S
L
M
i
n
t
o
L
o
c
a
l
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
$
3
.
8
9
M
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
:
$
6
6
.
9
4
M
G
E
F
A
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
:
$
7
0
.
8
3
M
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
u
b
l
i
c
o
r
s
o
c
i
a
l
m
i
c
r
o
-
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
t
h
a
t
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
l
o
c
a
l
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
,
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
a
s
m
a
l
l
n
u
m
b
e
r
(
l
e
s
s
t
h
a
n
2
5
)
t
h
a
t
w
o
u
l
d
a
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
p
r
o
m
o
t
e
b
a
s
i
c
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
(
e
.
g
.
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
)
a
n
d
s
o
i
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
t
y
r
e
s
t
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
.
F
e
w
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
t
o
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
l
a
n
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
w
h
i
c
h
c
o
u
l
d
a
f
f
e
c
t
a
n
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
a
b
l
e
g
l
o
b
a
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
i
n
t
h
e
l
a
n
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
o
r
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
f
o
c
a
l
a
r
e
a
s
.
-
P
A
P
N
D
P
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
I
-
K
f
W
D
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
u
n
d
e
r
P
N
D
P
i
n
E
x
t
r
e
m
e
N
o
r
t
h
P
r
o
v
i
n
c
e
.
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
n
u
m
b
e
r
(
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
1
0
0
)
o
f
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
-
b
a
s
e
d
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
l
a
n
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
m
i
c
r
o
-
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
t
h
a
t
c
a
n
a
d
d
r
e
s
s
r
u
r
a
l
g
r
o
w
t
h
i
n
t
a
n
d
e
m
w
i
t
h
l
o
c
a
l
c
h
a
l
l
e
n
g
e
s
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
t
o
l
a
n
d
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
.
A
g
g
r
e
g
a
t
e
d
i
m
p
a
c
t
o
f
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
w
o
u
l
d
l
e
a
d
t
o
m
e
a
s
u
r
a
b
l
e
l
o
c
a
l
,
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
g
l
o
b
a
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
.
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
i
n
r
e
s
t
o
r
i
n
g
f
r
a
g
i
l
e
a
g
r
o
-
s
y
l
v
o
-
p
a
s
t
o
r
a
l
l
a
n
d
s
c
a
p
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
,
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
s
i
n
s
o
i
l
f
e
r
t
i
l
i
t
y
,
v
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
v
e
c
o
v
e
r
,
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
o
f
p
a
s
t
u
r
e
a
n
d
r
a
n
g
e
l
a
n
d
s
,
w
a
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
)
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
s
i
n
d
i
r
e
c
t
l
y
t
o
t
h
e
m
a
i
n
t
e
n
a
n
c
e
a
n
d
/
o
r
a
u
g
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
r
u
r
a
l
l
a
n
d
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
.
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
v
e
g
e
t
a
t
i
v
e
c
o
v
e
r
a
n
d
r
e
d
u
c
e
d
p
r
e
s
s
u
r
e
o
n
f
o
r
e
s
t
r
y
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
d
r
y
-
l
a
n
d
s
r
e
c
l
a
m
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
g
a
l
l
e
r
y
f
o
r
e
s
t
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
w
i
d
e
r
u
p
t
a
k
e
o
f
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
l
a
n
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
a
n
d
t
e
c
h
n
o
l
o
g
i
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
,
d
i
r
e
c
t
s
e
e
d
i
n
g
,
a
g
r
o
-
f
o
r
e
s
t
r
y
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
)
.
I
n
c
r
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
G
l
o
b
a
l
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
B
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
n
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
r
e
g
i
o
n
’
s
m
o
s
t
v
u
l
n
e
r
a
b
l
e
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
a
t
e
d
t
o
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
t
o
c
o
m
b
a
t
i
n
g
l
a
n
d
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
.
R
e
s
t
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
,
o
r
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
r
a
g
i
l
e
a
g
r
o
-
s
y
l
v
o
-
p
a
s
t
o
r
a
l
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
b
y
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
i
n
g
a
r
e
a
o
f
l
a
n
d
m
a
i
n
t
a
i
n
e
d
a
n
d
r
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
e
d
u
n
d
e
r
S
L
M
p
r
a
c
t
i
c
e
s
.
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
a
g
r
o
-
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
i
n
t
a
r
g
e
t
e
d
f
r
a
g
i
l
e
a
g
r
o
-
s
y
l
v
o
-
p
a
s
t
o
r
a
l
e
c
o
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
.
R
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
m
e
t
h
a
n
e
g
a
s
e
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
s
a
n
d
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
e
d
c
a
r
b
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
s
o
i
l
s
a
n
d
a
b
o
v
e
a
n
d
b
e
l
o
w
-
g
r
o
u
n
d
b
i
o
m
a
s
s
.
R
e
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
s
o
i
l
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
,
s
t
a
b
i
l
i
z
i
n
g
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
n
d
Page  26
2
.
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
f
o
r
a
n
e
n
a
b
l
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
L
M
$
1
.
3
3
M
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
:
$
9
.
8
4
M
G
E
F
A
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
:
$
1
1
.
1
7
M
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
f
o
r
l
o
c
a
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
m
o
d
e
s
t
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
i
n
t
h
e
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
t
o
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
n
d
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
t
h
a
t
m
a
y
r
e
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
e
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
i
n
s
e
l
e
c
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
.
F
i
n
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
l
e
g
a
l
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
f
o
r
d
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
g
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e
.
C
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
f
o
r
C
o
u
n
c
i
l
s
i
n
l
o
c
a
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
f
i
n
a
n
c
i
a
l
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
,
w
i
t
h
m
i
n
i
m
a
l
g
a
i
n
s
i
n
t
h
e
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
l
o
c
a
l
a
u
t
h
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
t
o
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
s
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
.
-
P
A
P
N
D
P
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
I
I
a
n
d
I
I
I
C
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
l
o
c
a
l
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
t
o
i
n
c
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
b
r
o
a
d
e
r
I
E
M
c
o
n
s
i
d
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
t
o
l
o
c
a
l
a
n
d
s
u
b
-
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
s
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
l
y
s
t
r
e
n
g
t
h
e
n
e
d
,
l
e
a
d
i
n
g
t
o
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
,
l
o
c
a
l
,
a
n
d
g
l
o
b
a
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
.
D
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
l
a
w
s
r
e
f
l
e
c
t
s
h
a
r
e
d
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
-
d
r
i
v
e
n
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
M
i
n
i
s
t
r
y
o
f
E
n
e
r
g
y
a
n
d
W
a
t
e
r
a
g
e
n
t
s
a
t
d
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
l
e
v
e
l
s
t
o
a
d
d
r
e
s
s
a
n
d
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
I
E
M
i
s
s
u
e
s
g
r
e
a
t
l
y
s
t
r
e
n
g
t
h
e
n
e
d
.
A
n
e
n
a
b
l
i
n
g
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
s
t
r
o
n
g
e
r
i
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
p
o
l
i
c
y
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
f
o
r
S
L
M
b
u
i
l
t
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
a
c
c
e
l
e
r
a
t
e
d
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
m
o
n
g
k
e
y
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
i
e
s
,
i
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
s
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
s
a
n
d
r
e
v
i
s
i
o
n
/
a
d
o
p
t
i
o
n
o
f
k
e
y
l
e
g
a
l
t
e
x
t
s
.
S
i
g
n
i
f
i
c
a
n
t
i
m
p
r
o
v
e
m
e
n
t
i
n
t
h
e
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
o
f
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
t
o
d
e
s
i
g
n
a
n
d
p
l
a
n
m
i
c
r
o
-
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
t
h
a
t
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
S
L
M
a
n
d
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
s
i
n
t
o
l
o
c
a
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
p
l
a
n
s
a
n
d
i
n
t
e
r
-
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
a
g
r
e
e
m
e
n
t
s
i
n
t
a
r
g
e
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
.
K
e
y
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
l
o
c
a
l
s
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
s
s
e
n
s
i
t
i
z
e
d
t
o
t
h
e
r
e
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
i
p
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
l
a
n
d
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
c
h
a
l
l
e
n
g
e
s
a
n
d
l
o
c
a
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
i
s
s
u
e
s
.
F
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
s
p
u
t
i
n
p
l
a
c
e
f
o
r
b
a
l
a
n
c
i
n
g
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
e
x
p
l
o
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
p
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
n
e
e
d
s
a
t
d
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
l
e
v
e
l
s
,
a
s
w
e
l
l
a
s
c
o
n
f
l
i
c
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
r
r
a
n
g
e
m
e
n
t
s
t
o
a
d
d
r
e
s
s
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
s
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
l
a
n
d
a
n
d
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
r
e
s
o
u
r
c
e
u
s
e
r
s
a
t
t
h
e
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
l
e
v
e
l
.
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
a
n
d
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
i
n
c
r
i
t
i
c
a
l
t
r
a
n
s
-
b
o
u
n
d
a
r
y
w
a
t
e
r
b
o
d
i
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
L
a
k
e
C
h
a
d
,
G
u
l
f
o
f
G
u
i
n
e
a
)
.
B
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
f
r
o
m
g
l
o
b
a
l
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
u
s
e
m
o
r
e
e
q
u
i
t
a
b
l
y
s
h
a
r
e
d
a
n
d
i
n
d
i
g
e
n
o
u
s
k
n
o
w
l
e
d
g
e
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
i
n
c
o
r
p
o
r
a
t
e
d
i
n
t
o
g
l
o
b
a
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
e
f
f
o
r
t
s
.
Page  27
3
.
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
,
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
a
n
d
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
,
a
n
d
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
$
0
.
7
8
M
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
:
$
1
5
.
9
2
M
G
E
F
A
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
:
$
1
6
.
0
0
M
A
g
e
n
e
r
a
l
p
u
b
l
i
c
a
w
a
r
e
n
e
s
s
-
r
a
i
s
i
n
g
c
a
m
p
a
i
g
n
a
n
d
a
b
r
o
a
d
-
b
a
s
e
d
,
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
o
r
y
r
u
r
a
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
s
y
s
t
e
m
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
,
w
h
i
c
h
w
o
u
l
d
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
s
o
m
e
d
a
t
a
o
n
s
t
a
t
e
o
f
t
h
e
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
.
-
P
A
P
N
D
P
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
I
V
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
S
L
M
a
n
d
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
c
o
n
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
i
n
t
o
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
M
&
E
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
h
a
v
i
n
g
b
r
o
a
d
s
c
o
p
e
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
a
g
e
.
P
r
o
m
o
t
i
o
n
o
f
p
a
r
t
i
c
i
p
a
t
o
r
y
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
m
e
t
h
o
d
o
l
o
g
i
e
s
a
n
d
u
s
e
o
f
G
I
S
-
b
a
s
e
d
t
o
o
l
s
a
n
d
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
s
,
a
c
c
e
l
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
i
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
e
x
c
h
a
n
g
e
a
m
o
n
g
k
e
y
s
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
s
,
t
h
e
r
e
b
y
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
n
g
g
l
o
b
a
l
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
.
I
m
p
r
o
v
e
d
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
M
&
E
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
f
o
r
a
n
a
l
y
z
i
n
g
l
a
n
d
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
t
r
e
n
d
s
a
n
d
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
s
o
c
i
o
-
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
.
B
e
t
t
e
r
u
n
d
e
r
s
t
a
n
d
i
n
g
o
f
t
h
e
c
o
s
t
s
a
n
d
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
o
f
v
a
r
i
o
u
s
S
L
M
i
n
t
e
r
v
e
n
t
i
o
n
s
i
n
d
i
f
f
e
r
e
n
t
s
u
b
-
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
,
a
g
r
o
-
c
l
i
m
a
t
i
c
,
a
n
d
s
o
c
i
o
-
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
c
o
n
t
e
x
t
s
.
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
i
m
p
a
c
t
s
o
n
c
o
m
b
a
t
i
n
g
l
a
n
d
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
a
n
d
i
n
c
r
e
a
s
i
n
g
b
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
i
n
t
a
r
g
e
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
e
d
.
C
o
m
m
o
n
g
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
s
e
t
f
o
r
d
a
t
a
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
,
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
,
a
n
d
e
x
c
h
a
n
g
e
o
n
l
a
n
d
d
e
g
r
a
d
a
t
i
o
n
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
i
e
s
,
l
o
c
a
l
g
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
,
c
i
v
i
l
s
o
c
i
e
t
y
,
a
n
d
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
.
*
T
h
e
i
n
c
r
e
m
e
n
t
a
l
c
o
s
t
r
e
f
l
e
c
t
s
t
h
e
d
i
f
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
t
h
e
G
E
F
a
l
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
v
e
c
o
s
t
a
n
d
t
h
e
b
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
c
o
s
t
.
F
o
r
m
o
r
e
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
c
o
s
t
b
r
e
a
k
-
d
o
w
n
s
b
y
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
,
s
e
e
T
a
b
l
e
1
.
Page  28
5
A
NNEX 
B: 
PROJECT LOGICAL FRAMEWORK
 
1. Result 
framework 
 
PDO 
Project Outcome Indicators 
Use of Project Outcome Information
PDO 
Enable communities to contribute to 
combating land degradation in critical 
areas.  
 
·
50 000 ha under SLM practices in 
project areas by the mi-term review 
·
120 000 ha under SLM practices in 
project areas by the project end 
 
Global Environmental Objective: 
Promote SLM and decrease biodiversity 
loss in fragile sylvo-pastoral 
ecosystem/landscapes. 
·
Reappearance of new tree crop  
species (particularly in dry lands and 
semi-arid project sites); 
·
Increase in biodiversity in per unit 
plot in GEF site vs. control group 
·
2,000,000 tree crops introduced by 
the mi-term review; 
·
5,000,000 tree crops introduced by 
the project end. 
 
Intermediate Outcomes 
 
Intermediate Outcome Indicators 
 
Use of Intermediate Outcome 
Monitoring 
1.1 Sustainable land management practices 
adopted and implemented by communities 
through micro-projects  
 
-
Improved Soil fertility by the end of 
project: (i) pH maintained between 5.5-
6.5; (ii) Available P
2
O
5
increased from 
13-14 to above 15 mg/kg (ppm) in the 
northern provinces for Alfisols and 
Vertisols and from 12 to above 13 mg/kg 
in the Centre and the West provinces
 
for  
Ultisols and Oxisols (iii) Exchangeable 
Al
3+
 rate maintained below 30% in the 
Centre and the West, (iv) organic carbon 
rate maintained above 40 g/kg in the 
northern provinces; above 50 g/kg in the 
centre and the western provinces; (v) 
Total N increased from 1.9 to above 
2g/kg; (vi) Sum of exchangeable bases 
increased above 13.6 cmol/kg 
(meq/100g); (vii) Decreased erosion rate 
(runoff coefficient) from 1t/ha to less than 
0.5 t/ha; 
-
Increased vegetable cover by the project 
end.  
-
50 (of which 27 new) Conflict 
Resolution Frameworks  effectively 
operational by mi-term review  
-
85  Conflict Resolution Frameworks  
effectively operational by the project end;
 
2. Institutional support for enabling 
environment for SLM 
 
A. Institutional support to the land 
Page  29
6
reform process 
 
At the national level
2.1 Comprehensive policy and institutional 
framework  to support sustainable agro-
e
cological activities has been prepared in a 
participatory manner and is effective 
 
2.2 Strengthened capacity and coordination 
among key ministries to promote sound 
SLM policies, program and guidelines 
 
At the regional level
2.3 Land use planning and sustainable land 
management is integrated into zoning 
processes and GIS databases and maps 
 
At the local level
2.4 Land use plan is integrated at the local 
level 
 
B
Enhancing capacity building at the 
local level 
 
2.5 Strengthened capacity of local 
communities in SLM good practices 
 
2.6 Strengthened capacity of NGOs toward 
providing support on micro-projects 
 
T
he study aimed at reinforcing land 
use rights has been completed by the 
project end. 
 
An Inter-sectorial coordination 
mechanism is in place and is 
operational at least at the provincial 
level by the project end. 
 
150  landscape management plans 
implemented, by the mi-term review 
 
350  landscape management plans 
implemented, by the project end 
 
At least 150 communities are able to 
proper implement SLM tools kit by the 
project end. 
 
3. Supporting project management and 
coordination, monitoring and 
evaluation, and communication 
 
3.1 Monitoring and evaluation 
 
3.2 technical project progress report are 
produced and issued in a timely manner 
 
3.3 Financial project progress report are 
produced in a timely manner (including 
audit) 
 
3.4 Project impacts and results are 
disseminated 
 
GIS-based MIS is in place and is being 
used 
 
Progress  reports issued in a timely 
manner 
 
Best practices and lessons learned are 
regularly disseminated 
 
Page  30
7
2. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Monitoring and evaluation functions will be integrated into project management 
arrangements and the PNDP Proj
ect Management Unit’s monitoring and evaluation 
systems that are already in place. This system allows for ongoing project evaluation of 
the impacts of various interventions under the project, feeding into the dissemination of 
best practices in sustainable land management. Predetermined output and input indicators 
would assess the success of the micro-projects and other interventions and bring lessons 
learned to bear on the design of new activities. The system will benefit from 
complementary usage of the GIS-based land-use zoning maps and associated MIS, which 
will facilitate optimal replication of activities to most vulnerable communities. 
Monitoring would be carried out by project staff, PNDP project management unit (PMU), 
consultants, communes, communities and other beneficiaries. Nevertheless the PMU 
would ensure the general project progress monitoring by controlling scheduled actions, 
evaluating the adequacy of execution in relation to what was planned, and facilitating any 
necessary modification. 
 
A
detailed project monitoring and evaluation plan with annual target values and 
arrangements for data collection and reporting will be finalized before appraisal. At 
present, the key indicators
are: (i) number of hectares of land maintained and 
rehabilitated through SLM practices in project areas; (ii) decreased soil erosion rate 
(runoff coef.) in the project areas; (iii) increased vegetative cover in targeted areas; (iv) 
legal texts on land-use rights reviewed and adopted; (v) number of land land-use plans 
being effectively implemented; (vi) number of land-use conflict resolution frameworks 
effectively implemented in targeted areas. In arid and semi-arid areas, number and 
density of tree crop species will be monitored as key proxy indicator for the re-emergence 
of other agro-biodiversity, given the greater ease of participatory monitoring. In other 
cases, control plots will be compared with those in the targeted project areas to assess net 
changes in biodiversity species. These incremental SLM indicators will be integrated into 
PAPNDP’s existing monitoring and evaluation protocol, and codified into the monitoring 
and evaluation manual, which will also be completed before appraisal.  
 
Comprehensive baseline studies are ongoing to establish adequate data on the start-up 
situation in order to set appropriate targets to allow comparison of key indicators at 
regular intervals. Given the heterogeneous nature of each of the project sites, different 
targeted indicators for the expected environmental outcome will be developed for each 
priority area. Scientific and other environmental studies to be undertaken as part of 
Component 2.2 will complement baseline information and help to target SLM indicators 
relevant to larger geographical scales (e.g., watersheds). Cooperation with the FAO 
(LADA project) and TerrAfrica will be pursued in order to harmonize key SLM 
indicators for Sub-Saharan Africa. 
.
.
Page  31
8
A
NNEX 
C: R
ESPONSE TO 
P
ROJECT 
R
EVIEWS
 
1. Convention Secretariat comments and IA/ExA response 
 
2. GEF Secretariat and other Ag
encies’ comments and IA/ExA response 
 
Comments from the GEF Secretariat 
Response from the Project Team 
1. It is important to analyze 
the full root-causes impact chain for land 
degradation targeting 
-
local applications (access to technologies, 
access to farm inputs etc.), 
-
institutional, individual, and systemic 
capacities, and 
-
the enabling environment for SLM (policies, 
regulatory framework, law enforcement, 
incentive frameworks).
 
The overall project design reflects a 
good understanding of the root-causes 
impact chain of land degradation at 
different levels. A description of root 
causes is provided in the Project Brief in 
Annex I (pp 42 
–
45), and Annex XV, 
Incremental Cost Annex (pp 93-94). 
This is also reflected in the criteria for 
site selection (Project Brief pp 55-57). 
In GEF priority zones, in particular, 
these root causes are being carefully 
analyzed in the baseline studies that will 
be completed in the next 2-3 months in 
the pre-identified shortlist of project 
sites.  
2. Need for awareness creation and capacity 
building at all levels. (to increase the 
ownership) 
 
Following the preparation mission and 
the result of the stakeholder analysis 
and capacity building assessment as part 
of the PDF-B studies, the scope of 
component 2 has been revised to 
encompass awareness raising and 
capacity building for SLM at all levels. 
A
training plan will be developed before 
appraisal on the basis of the final 
assessment.  Refer to project Brief pp. 
35, 62-64, 79, 84-86. Building 
ownership among stakeholders is a key 
element of the project’s sustainability 
strategy (see Project Brief pp 33-34). 
 
3. Importance of an inter-ministerial steering 
committee in order to allow for a coordinated 
and harmonized decision making on land use 
related matters…. Strong link to activities 
related to an improved enabling environment 
at the national level. 
 
Following the preparation mission, the 
scope of component 2, in particular sub-
component 2.1 now emphasizes to a 
greater extent activities at the national 
level to improve the enabling 
environment for SLM. These include: 
development of policies, regulations, 
Page  32
9
and institutional frameworks; review 
and adoption of legal texts on land-use; 
and acceleration of multi-sectoral 
coordination among concerned 
ministries. Regarding the latter, this will 
be achieved through mechanisms such 
as the UNCCD/NAP Implementation 
National Steering Committee, and the 
PAPNDP steering committee.  
Moreover, these national activities are 
linked to actions at the local and sub-
national levels. Refer to pp. 62-64 and 
p. 29 of Project Brief.
 
4. It is suggested to analyze the replication 
potential during the PDF-B stage of the 
project. 
 
Replication of successful pilot SLM 
interventions suitable to different agro-
climatic and social contexts is built into 
the proj
ect’s sustainability and 
replicability strategies (see in particular, 
Project Brief p 35). 
 
5. M&E systems should be in place on the 
RBF. Institutional arrangements have to be 
presented and the role of local stakeholders 
clarified in the monitoring process.  
 
A
results-based M&E framework is 
outlined in discussion of key outcome 
indicators (see Executive Summary), 
monitoring strategy, in the Project Brief 
pp 32, and results framework and 
logframe (see Project Brief Annex III, 
pp 50-53). The indicators have been 
designed to reflect the desirability of 
participatory monitoring and evaluation. 
The PAPNDP M&E manual is being 
revised to reflect the need to integrate 
the incremental GEF activities and 
targeted outcomes. The project’s 
institutional arrangements are presented 
in Project Brief Annex VI (pp. 67-68).  
Page  33
10
3. STAP expert review and IA/ExA response 
 
Reviewer: 
 John Peacock         Range Ecology/Ecophysiology Specialist 
Date
:
27
July 2005 
 
General Comment: 
 
When reading this STAP Roster Technical Review of the above project it must be understood 
that this is a review of a draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and not of the final document. 
In recognizing the advantages of reviewing the document as early as possible in its development, 
it should be noted that, because it is a draft, I probably have many more concerns and questions 
of clarification. 
 
It must be stated at the outset that this GEF project, if successful, is vital for Cameroon because, 
through the use of Sustainable Land Management (SLM) practices it will improve the economic 
growth in the rural communities, sustain rural livelihoods, and ultimately reduce the incidence 
and severity of poverty. 
 
Comments from STAP Expert 
Response from the project team 
1. Key Issues 
1. 
Scientific and technical soundness of the project  
The ultimate goal of this project is excellent as it would 
enhance ecosystem integrity and increase productivity (and 
indirectly rural wealth) through work with land managers in 
selected ecosystems. I congratulate the team that is 
developing the project. Unfortunately the scientific and 
technical aspects of the project are poorly addressed in this 
draft and need further elaboration in the final PAD. In fact 
there is little change from the earlier PDF document.  It is 
essential that the scientific soundness of the PAD is 
strengthened for the implementation and success of the 
proposed project. Having said this, the project has some 
good scientific and technical concepts and components, but 
these could also be strengthened. 
a. 
The focus on decentralization is excellent and stressed 
throughout. The project values participatory 
approaches and consultation in the implementation, but 
unfortunately not in design of the micro-projects.  
b. 
An M & E system has been conceived and is planned 
for the project, but not elaborated in the draft. 
c.  The project intends to involve indigenous people, 
however at the same time the project is weak on 
recognizing the value of indigenous technical 
knowledge (ITK) to the design and implementation of 
SLM practices. 
d. 
The project proposes to cover the four main provinces 
and ecological zones, but at the same time this could be 
its Achilles heal. The project, in my opinion, is too 
ambitious and the number of targeted areas to be 
selected should not be greater than four. 
e. 
The project addresses well the issues of land reform 
and land tenure, but provides no technical guidance for 
a. Community driven micro-projects to be co-
financed, derive from local development plans. Due 
to the material, technical and financial resource 
constraints, under a purely demand-driven approach 
only a handful of micro-projects co-financed under 
PAPNDP would be realized that would directly 
contribute to reversing land degradation. An  
integrated landscape approach will be then 
developed and contributions from beneficiaries 
(communes and CBOs) of at least 2% in cash and 
8% in kind (labor, material) will be required. 
Detailed criteria for the selection of project sites as 
well as eligibility criteria for micro-projects have 
been agreed upon with the counterpart and will be 
incorporated in the PIM. 
b. The existing M&E manual and the integrated 
financial and technical management system under 
PAPNDP are being updated and will also be used 
for monitoring progress on GEF project activities. 
 
c. Best practices to be promoted will necessary  
include ITK, in order to ensure their replicability 
and sustainability. The team will ensure that this 
aspect be  better reflected in the final version of the 
PAD.    
d. Although the Project  is intending to cover four 
provinces and based on the criteria set for the 
s
election of area/sites of intervention, its activities 
Page  34
11
the SLM practices to be used in the design, 
implementation and monitoring phases. 
f. 
Training needs are emphasized throughout but there is 
no mention of technical training in SLM practices.  
g. 
The principles of sustainable land management  are 
w
ell covered, but then reference is made, in numerous 
places, to a number of untested SLM practices (e.g. P 
35 para. 2) that may not be suitable for the Cameroon, 
rather than to those that have been developed and 
tested in rural areas in West Africa, making more use 
of  ITK. 
 
Finally, I fully endorse the recommendation for a full-time 
land/soil management expert familiar with local SLM 
practices. The person must have considerable experience in 
the region and preferably in Cameroon. 
will be mainly concentrated in the North and 
Adamaoua provinces where land degradation issues 
seem to be more severe.  
A
list of best practices on SLM is being produced 
based on the on-going projects experiences , 
e
specially in the North and Adamaoua provinces. 
This will also include lessons learnt from integrated 
landscape management approach and conflict 
resolution mechanisms. 
f. Technical training on SLM will be the backbone  
for the implementation of project  activities and will 
be reflected on the training plan being prepared.. 
g. See lessons learnt from on-going experiences in 
the North and Adamaoua. 
 
2. 
Identification of the global environmental benefits 
and/or drawbacks of the project     
Healthy, thriving ecosystems are the main providers of 
services for sustainable living. This project will clearly 
have a marked positive effect on all the ecosystems 
services, viz. regulating, supporting, provisioning and 
cultural services.  Therefore the project should provide 
considerable global environmental benefits, particularly in 
relation to reduction of land degradation, increased 
biodiversity and agro-biodiversity and carbon sequestration, 
in the humid tropics. However, it is important that the 
impact indicators of land degradation in the humid tropics 
are clearly listed (may be for each ecosystem service). 
Traditional knowledge (cultural services) needs to be 
emphasized more as this can yield global benefits. Also the 
policy, institutional bottlenecks referred to on page 8 are 
most important and should be completed as this will lead to 
further global benefits.  
 
The project agrees with the statement, while keeping 
in mind the need for having simple and measurable 
indicators. A baseline Study is  being carried out 
and will provide guidance on the best indicators to 
be considered for each agro-ecosystem. 
 
3. 
How the project fits within the context of the goals 
of GEF, as well as its operational strategies, program 
priorities, GEF Council guidance, and the provisions of 
the relevant conventions     
The project addresses the overall operational goal of the 
GEF focal area on land degradation and fits extremely well 
within the goals, strategies and priorities of the GEF 
Operational Program on Sustainable Land Management 
(OP#15). The project also fits well into the following 
important GEF criteria: 
a. 
The GEF Operational Program of Climate Change 
through the work on carbon sequestration issues and 
possible impacts of drought. 
b. 
Supports GEF goals on biodiversity by addressing the 
issues of biodiversity and agro-biodiversity of diverse 
ecosystems laid out in GEF’s Operational Strategy and 
Programs on Biodiversity.  
c. 
Is in line with the proposed new strategic directions for 
the next phase of GEF, viz. GEF- 4, starting end of 
2006. 
d.  Follows closely the National Action Programmes 
(NAPs) that are being developed for Cameroon. 
The preparation of the NAP is progressing 
Page  35
12
However it refers only to the 1999 draft (P.7 & 40). 
Has Cameroon completed its NAPs, which is due in 
2005? Without seeing a recent version it will be 
difficult to say whether the proposed project will 
complement and increase the efficiency of the NAPs. 
e
.
If this project is successful, then it will fit well under 
sub-Regional Action Programmes (SRAPs), possibly 
with Chad and Niger. 
f.  It addresses a number of Thematic Programme 
Networks, TPN2 on agro-forestry and soil 
conservation; TPN3 on rangeland and fodder crops and 
TPN4, on ecological monitoring, natural resource 
mapping and remote sensing, under the Regional 
Action Programs (RAPs). 
g.  The project clearly distinguishes between baseline 
actions to be covered by the national programs and the 
incremental actions to be covered by the GEF 
component. 
h. 
GEF’s vision on preservation of the integrity of an 
ecosystem and a landscape approach are adhered to. 
satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by 
end 2005. The related section  of the PAD has been 
updated accordingly.  
 
4. 
Regional context  
The ultimate goal of this project is to enhance ecosystem 
integrity and increase productivity (and indirectly rural 
wealth) through working with the land managers in each of 
the targeted areas.  Similarly the project addresses most of 
the factors in the Sustainable Rural Livelihoods 
Framework. This framework will also help the team to 
model the processes to identify factors, within each selected 
area, that are the most sensitive to change. Therefore the 
project will not only benefit the poor rural communities and 
indigenous people in Cameroon, it could easily be 
considered as a model for West Africa, in general, and the 
region, in particular. It has the potential to be considered as 
a
model (as mentioned above) for Land Degradation 
Assessment in the Humid Tropics viz.  The LADA (Land 
Degradation Assessment in Drylands) for the humid 
tropics. 
No comment. 
5. 
Replicability of the project (added value for the 
global environment beyond the project itself) 
Provided the project is kept simple, designed and 
implemented well at the community level, it has 
considerable potential for replicability. The document is 
strong on local/national outreach but links to regional and 
international institutes needs to be strengthened for 
outreach. The draft only refers to local research institutes 
(P19. Component 1). Links with other international 
institutes, particular the CGIAR centers, need to be more 
transparent in the document. Cameroon represents nearly 
90% of the African ecosystems, therefore, if the project 
became more institutionalized it could become a model for 
Land Degradation Assessment in the Humid Tropics 
(humid forest margins) and could be replicated in similar 
ecosystems throughout the region and in West Africa. 
Although they are all closely working with IRAD, 
the team shares the view to explicitly include 
international research institutes working on land 
management, such as CGIAR, IITA, CIRAD, 
CIFOR, ICRAF, as key potential partners for the 
project. This is being reflected in the PAD. 
6. 
Sustainability of the project.  
The potential is good because of its strong linkages with the 
PNDP which has three, 4 year phases and the project 
A
study on successful land management practices 
and another one on cultural and technical feasibility 
are being conducted and their findings w
ill be 
Page  36
13
overlaps with the first two phases. If the GEF component is 
successful then the adopted SLM packages should 
automatically be incorporated into the remaining phases of 
the PAPNDP project. But to be successful, and therefore 
sustainable, the project needs to incorporate all the lessons 
l
earnt from previous listed projects (P 21-24). It also needs 
to examine other techniques that have been developed and 
have increased the sustainability and productivity in rural 
communities in the region and in West Africa. Evaluation 
of the 
Sustainable sedentary farming models
 and other 
techniques discussed in the Senegal project on ecosystem 
management is a good example1. It might be valuable as 
part of the baseline assessment of this project to carryout a 
meta-analysis on all the relevant development projects 
completed in the Cameroon on land degradation, land 
management, biodiversity conservation and agricultural/ 
environmental productivity. In the past, Cameroon has 
served as a benchmark site for CGIAR research in the 
Ecoregional Program for the Humid and Sub-Humid 
Tropics of sub-Saharan Africa (EPHTA) 
(
www.iita.org/partner/ephta.htm
). This research is still on-
going and publications on the Cameroon benchmark site 
can be found on 
www.iita.org/info
.
A
summary of the 
impact of this long-term research can be found in: An 
assessment of IITA’s benchmark area approach. There are 
also a number of past and ongoing projects on forest 
restoration, slash and burn and many agricultural 
development projects. CIFOR has put together a 
compilation of publications, maps, pictures, hyperlinks, and 
references on a CD-rom called Cameroon’s forest and 
people. There is also DURAS, 
www.duras-project.net
with 
the collaboration of CIRAD. These are just a few more 
sources of baseline information and SLM practices that 
have been developed for Cameroon.
 
1. 
Page 34-35 (7-8) and Annex XI. Integrated Ecosystem 
Management in Four Representative Landscapes of 
Senegal/ UNDP. 
 
incorporated in the PAD. 
2. Secondary Issues 
7. 
Linkages to other focal areas 
As mentioned in 3, the project is contributing to global 
benefits in the other focal areas of both Climate Change and 
Biodiversity. However the linkages to biodiversity must be 
strengthened. For impact and consistency it is also 
important to ensure that the indicators for measuring 
biodiversity, which are listed in the logframe (p.20), are 
also mentioned in the text (P15. para 3). 
No comment. 
8. 
Linkages to other programs  
Some are listed and clearly these are very important, but 
what are the linkages with other organizations e.g. CIFOR, 
DURAS, ICRAF, IITA, ILRI and NEPAD? The more 
institutionalized the project becomes the better chance it 
has of both succeeding and remaining sustainable. 
See section 5 above. 
 
9. 
Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects 
Provided the project is successful
it will have many positive 
No comment. 
Page  37
14
effects on the environment. However without the GEF 
component or if the GEF component fails, many of the 
selected micro-projects, viz. road building and dam 
construction, could be extremely damaging to the 
environment. For this reason the project needs to 
a
cknowledge the existence of indigenous technical 
knowledge and utilize it when designing and selecting the 
different SLM packages.
 
10. 
Degree of involvement of stakeholders in the 
project  
The project is excellent as it is clear at the outset that all the 
relevant stakeholders will be involved. However it fails to 
say who these actually are. I encourage you to expand the 
PNDP’s steering committee to key stakeholders that are 
outside the government (P 26. para 3) viz. indigenous 
peoples, CGIAR centers, NGOs and local research 
institutes. It is vital, that in addition to these indigenous 
peoples, farmers, herders, local and international scientists 
being represented in the management of the project,  that 
their role, at the community level,  as stakeholders, is also 
expanded to include design and implementation . 
 Although  it seems difficult to integrate  
representatives of  indigenous  people as the steering 
committee is set at the national level, the team 
considers this suggestion, as valuable and will 
discuss it with the counterpart during prior to 
appraisal.  
11. 
Institutional support to the land reform process 
Another strength of this project is its promotion of land 
reform. It has stressed the need for decentralization from 
the outset and has built the project around local 
communities. This is excellent as it enables land use 
analysis and has developed a framework for addressing 
conflicts. However although the land reform component is 
strong it is not clear how this will ultimately affect the 
implementation of the different SLM practices e.g., the 
private versus public land issues and possible resulting 
conflicts. This needs to be better addressed. A review of 
experiences from the implementation of food for work 
programs that have focused on community based works 
such as small scale irrigation, irrigation canal rehabilitation, 
terracing, land improvement, watershed improvement, 
pasture rehabilitation and other types of agriculture works 
that have been demanded by communities might be of 
value here. Many of these work programs have dealt with 
investments in land improvement at public versus private 
level.  
This aspect is now extensively developed in the 
revised version of the PAD. Further details will be 
provided upon receiving the recommendation of the 
ongoing study on the institutional and legal 
bottlenecks on land management. 
12. 
Capacity building at the local level 
The training component is strong, but largely in the area of 
project logistics, procurement etc. it appears weak however 
on technical aspects. It may be necessary to try and utilize 
people who were trained earlier. 
(See15j). 
The use of NGO 
staff to train in project administration and management is 
excellent but may not be appropriate for technical training. 
It might be useful to also consider technical training 
utilizing local farmers and/or indigenous technical experts. 
Based on the stakeholders’ analysis being carried 
out, technical agents will be contracted out to 
provide required training to communes and CBOs, 
as well as to local implementing agencies. 
13. 
Innovativeness of the project  
Linking the GEF component of the project to the PAPNDP 
is a good and novel idea. It also makes, if successful, the 
GEF component very cost effective. As mentioned earlier 
in 4 & 5, it could be a model project on land degradation 
assessment for the humid tropics. 
No comment. 
Page  38
15
3. General Questions  
How many relevant local research institutions will be in the 
selected areas in the 4 provinces? 
The are at least four in the centre ( ICRAF, IITA, 
CIRAD, CIFOR, IRAD) and at least IRAS is active  
in each of the other three provinces. 
Does the Institut de Recherche Agricole pour le 
Developpement
 (IRAD) have a research outlet in each of 
the selected areas? 
Yes. See above. 
During the recent pre-appraisal mission were the criteria 
established for selection of the targeted areas?  
Yes. The  selection criteria include among others, 
the magnitude  of land degradation,  soil fertility and 
biodiversity depletion,   erosion as measured 
through the runoff rate, population density,  extend 
of area concerned by land degradation and 
communities preparedness, in terms of past 
experience on SLM with on-going initiatives, level 
of organization,  interest on SLM, and existence or 
not of other facilitating factors.   
Are any of the villages that were used in the National 
Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support 
Project in any of the selected areas?  
Yes.   Villages in the Center province and in the 
North. 
Village-based community development in the Cameroon 
National Agricultural Extension and Research Program 
Support Project seems to have worked well. Will this 
approach be adopted in this project? 
This approach is being develop under the PAPNDP 
and will be adopted in the GEF project as well.  
How exactly will the project ensure inclusion of the 
pygmies when they are present in the selected areas? 
An IPDP has been developed under PAPNDP and is 
being implemented. This plan will be updated  as 
necessary to integrate SLM for inclusion of 
pygmies. 
What are the short term incentives to increase income (
See 
15 l & m
)? 
Based on lessons learnt from the on-going 
experiences, especially looking at the high 
migration rate of population from the extreme North 
to the North and Adamaoua, because of the poor 
agro-sylvo-pastoral land productivity, local 
communities and communes in these provinces have 
a
great sense  of the need to improve the 
management of their natural resources. The pressure 
on these resources is increasingly felt as one of the 
main issues to be addressed.  Therefore they may 
not necessarily need any specific incentives. 
Nevertheless, the project is anticipating paying a 
special attention to improving soil fertility in farm 
lands by introducing  water conservation and soil 
erosion control techniques and high nitrogen 
converting plants. The project will also introduced 
new species on pastoral lands to improve their 
quality. 
What are the long term incentives and how are these made 
sustainable? 
Long-term incentives include: (i) positive 
externalities in terms of maintaining or boosting 
land productivity; (ii) promoting alternative 
livelihood strategies for the rural poor; (iii0 
strengthening local capacity for natural resources 
and sustainable land management, including 
pasturelands and community forest resources and 
(iv) strengthening central and decentralized 
Institutional capacity for sustainable land 
management and (v) promoting s
ecured land use 
Page  39
16
rights, especially in the North province. 
Will the land management specialist be hired? This is vital. 
It is also essential that the person has extensive experience 
with SLM practices in the region.  
Yes. 
It is not clear about the source and role of the Sustainable 
Land Management experts referred to on page 59 and 
depicted in the flow chart on page 62.  
This refers to consultants on SLM to be contracted 
out  as needed. 
Are data available on Cameroon’s carbon balance? What is 
the estimated net carbon sequestration capacity of 
Cameroon’s forests? 
No, to the extend of the team knowledge. 
Reliance on native species is mentioned (P 20). Is there 
much local seed or plant material being produced? Where 
are the local native seeds coming from? Have provisions 
been made for increases in native plant material? 
 
Seeds will be collected by communities with the 
assistance of local implementing agencies, and/or 
provided by research institutions. 
Can the effects of drought be coped with in the project? 
Yes, to some extent through water conservation and 
soil erosion control techniques, which will lead to 
the refilling of the underground water. The micro-
projects such as water wells are also eligible under 
PAPNDP. 
How will the grazing corridors be set up? 
The grazing corridors will be set up based on the 
land-use plans to be developed in a participatory 
manner. The  traditional conflict resolution 
mechanisms will also be  revived and/ or 
strengthened as necessary.  
When will the baseline data be collected, how will these 
data be stored and analyzed for changes? 
A
computerized monitoring system developed under 
PAPDNP will be upgraded for monitoring progress 
on SLM. 
Is the project directed towards women as well as the 
“resource poor’ farmers? 
To some extent as land use rights will be developed  
especially for resource poor farmers. In the North 
women  lack of  source of energy and  may need 
some support to develop community  and/or 
communal forests.  
Improving the agricultural productivity of land is 
mentioned many times (P. 11, 12, 14, 30, 61) but it is not 
clear how these increases will be monitored and measured? 
Agricultural productivity will be measures through  
improved soil fertility as measured for each agro-
ecosystem and increased of yields for main crops. 
What will be the role of the extension service in this 
project? 
The delivery  of extension services will be 
contracted out to local implementing agencies. 
What is the role of producer organizations? 
Producer organizations are considered or are 
members of CBOs. The latter are one of the main 
beneficiaries of project intervention. 
Will the project involve the private sector? 
Yes, through local implementing agencies and 
technical agents to be contracted out. 
Has the question of mobility of staff been adequately 
addressed in this project? This seemed to be a major 
problem in earlier projects. 
Provision has been made to that end  to complement 
the existing facilities under PAPNDP. 
Are training manuals available? Will there be adequate time 
to train the trainers on technical issues? 
The training manual is being prepared and would be 
finalized prior to appraisal and  adopted latest prior 
to negotiation 
Is there a record of all the people trained under the earlier 
Cameroon Biodiversity Conservation and Management 
Project? 
Yes. 
It would be very useful to not only have maps of the 
country and proposed project areas, but also to have maps 
showing the areas covered by the other completed related 
An extensive data base from completed and on-
going projects has been made available to the team 
during the pre
-
appraisal mission. All these 
Page  40
17
projects and those ongoing projects listed. Need to again 
build on what has already been achieved. These projects, 
which have cost a lot of money, should not be seen as 
entities in themselves but a part of a sustainable learning 
curve. 
information are being incorporated in the project 
data base. 
4. Suggestions for improvement of the Project Proposal: 
It is recognized that this PAD document is only an 
early draft. However the following should be considered: 
a. 
The project lacks cross referencing. The Annexes that 
have been completed are good and are helpful, but 
these should be linked to the text.  
The team will ensure to that all references are linked 
to the text. 
b.  An additional Annex describing in detail the SLM 
practices to be used 
(See 
1
Annex XI) 
should be 
incorporated. 
It will, upon receiving the findings of the on-going 
study on SLM best practices as well as the one the 
technical and cultural feasibility of SLM. 
c.  It is clear that different sections of the project, 
particularly the Annexes, have been developed and 
written by different people. Important now to check for 
consistency throughout the document.  
Done. 
d. Micro-projects are referred to throughout the 
document, but it is not until page 70 that one gets a 
clear idea what these are. Needs to be explained very 
clearly when first referred to in the document. 
Done. 
e. 
It is advisable, for many reasons that the number of 
targeted areas is no greater than four; one per province 
perhaps. The main reason for this is that this a very 
complex project and the success of it will depend on 
getting each step right. Too many areas will dilute all 
the resources and could lead to failure. In brief, keep it 
simple and do each part well. 
Most of project activities will be located in two 
provinces: the north and Adamaoua, because of the 
magnitude of land degradation and biodiversity 
depletion in the these areas. 
