                                                                                                OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                         IDA/R2006-0233/1

                                                                                                         December 19, 2006




                                                                                     Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                           For meeting of
                                                                             Board: Tuesday, January 9, 2007



FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                   Bosnia and Herzegovina - Community Development Project
                                                Additional Financing

                                                     Project Paper


         Attached is the Project Paper regarding a proposed additional financing credit to Bosnia
and Herzegovina for a Community Development Project (IDA/R2006-0233). This project will
be taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Tuesday, January 9, 2007 under the
Streamlined Procedure.




Distribution:

 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents

may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                          Documento f
                                       The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 37912-BA




                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                             ON A

                    PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                          INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR3.4 MILLION

                             (US$5.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                             FORA

                        COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROJECT




                                       November21,2006




HumanDevelopmentDepartment
SouthEastEurope Country Unit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.


                                    Bosniaand Herzegovina
                            CommunityDevelopmentProject
                                               ProjectPaper
                        ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                       Page

Project Paper Data Sheet.........................................................................................................
I.Introduction ,..............,......,............................
               ..                                                                                                                            1

11.Background andRationale for Additional Financing,,,,,,,, .....
                                                              .......,...,.......,...........,...... ..............,.......................7
                                                                     .......,..............,,.....,.... ............,,.......................3
                                                                                                    ....,......................,..........3
IV. Benefits and Risks ............................................................................................................
111.Expected Outcomes ...............................
                                                                                                                                             8
V. FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing..                                   ........................................8
VI. Allocation of Credit Proceeds...........................................................................................                 9
Attachment I-Project DevelopmentObjectives: Perfromance Indicators....,....                                              ...........,..... 10


                                   Project Paper Data Sheet




 Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCEAND TREASURY o f Bosnia and
 Herzegovina; Ministry of Finance of the Federation o f Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBH);
 Ministry ofFinance ofRepublika Srpska (RS); "Odraz" Foundation Sarajevo FBH; Contact
 Person: Mr.Fejsal Kirlic (FBH) Tel: 387-33 227 370; Development and Employment Fund;
 Contact Person: Mrs.Slobadanka Dukic (RS) Tel: 387 51221270
Email: fkirlic@o@                                                           I          P




FY                          2007 1            2008 I
Annual                       2.5                2.5
Cumulative                   2.5                5.0


policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                       [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                      ]Yes [ IN0

I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?




The proposedAdditional Financing Credit would support:
1: Performance Based Grants (USD 4.00 million)
2. Institutional Capacity Building (USD 0.65 million)
3. Project Implementation (USD 0.35million)

Does the additional financing trigger any new safeguard policies? - Yes, Environmental
Assessment (OPIBP 4.01)
None o f the activities financed under the additional financing are expecting to have an adverse
environmental impact. Nevertheless, appropriate environmental aspects would be considered
when assessingfinancing o frural roads and other infrastructure proposals. The Operations
Manuals for both RS and Federation include the environmental and social s_creening process.
                                       --
                      P              For Additional Financing
[I Loan [X ] Credit [] Grant For
Loans:Total World Bank financing (US$5.Om.equivalent)

                      Source                               Local        Foreign              Total
Borrower                                                                     0.00               1.o
IDA                                                                          0.00               5.O
Total                                                                        0.00               6.0

                                                  1

2

                                  BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA
                                          PROJECTPAPER
                                                FORTHE
                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


I.Introduction

1.    This ProjectPaper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an additional
financing credit inan amount o f SDR 3.4 million (US$5.0 millionequivalent) to Bosnia and
Herzegovina for the Community Development Project (CDP).

2.    The proposed additionalfinancing credithas beenrequestedby the State Ministryof Finance
and both Entity Prime Ministers, as well as mayors o f participating municipalities. Itwould help
finance a subset o f the pipeline o f proposals received from the poorest municipalities inthe country
which were unable to be financed under the existing CDP credit. N o changes are proposed to the
design or implementation arrangements of the ongoing project.

3.    ResultsOutcomes: The additional financing i s expected to further strengthenthe results and
outcomes achieved under the CDP by a continued focus on financing investments which strengthen
local government abilities to leverage and mobilize resources while increasing the participation of
citizens inbudget planningand decisionmaking. The additional financing would continue to
strength the results outcomes of the CDP by reaching 200,000 beneficiaries inaddition to the 1.3
million citizens covered to date under the CDP. The project would continue to work through elected
municipal governments to finance basic small-scale non-revenue generating social and economic
infrastructure investmentsthat are part of the municipalities strategic development plans which have
beenidentified as priorities by urbanand ruralpoor local communities as essential for social and
economic development. The project would continue to strengthenparticipatoryprocesses inlocal
governments to increase citizen's access to municipal services.

4.    The project would continue to be implementedthrough municipal governments inpartnership
with localcommunities and would aimto continue the highlevel ofpublic andprivate co-financing
(equal to 47% of IDA financing inthe Federation and 41% inthe RS) by citizens, municipal and
cantonal governments and private organizations.


11.Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

5,      Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) has achieved substantial progress ineconomic reconstruction
and state building and has experienced highrates o f economic growth (5.3%) inthe last decade
which are consistent with post war recovery. Along with this progress, BiHhas begunthe process
of negotiations with the EuropeanCommission on a stabilization and association agreement (SAA).
While the post-war reconstructionagenda inBiHhas been completed, the country is faced with a
resource constraint for continuing investmentswhich would further solidify social cohesion,
enabling business growth and state building. The economic growth has beenfueled largely by
international donor assistance. However, this assistance has declined substantially, from a higho f
US$750 million annually to less thenUS$300 million inrecent years. Growth has been
concentrated inthe more developed regions, cantons andmunicipalities o f the country, while poorer

                                                     3

municipalities--which constitute the majority--continue to face a resource and capacity constraint.
Poverty and unemployment rates remainhigh.

6.      EUaccessionandthe strengthening ofthe State andthe local governments is firmly the
development agenda for policy makers inBiHover the next five to ten year horizon. This agenda
will guide reform andintegrationinthe country at all levels of governance. The focus i s likely to
be on strengthening functions at the level ofthe central government while onthe other side
empowering municipalitiesto mobilize revenues and deliver services. Development efforts would
needto focus on strengthening the state and local governments and institutions inline withEU
standards. The current situation is, however, characterized by a "governance gap" that exists at the
state and municipal levels which is not only affecting overall macroeconomic policies but may
affect the country's readiness for EUaccession. This gap would needto be addressedby
strengthening the capacity o f municipalities to deliver services; govern inaccordance to EU
standards and principles; strengthening their capacity to absorb EUaccession funds (particularly
regional development funds which are earmarked for poverty reduction inunderdevelopment
regions); and creating a local environment which encouragesbusiness and economic growth.

7.      The country is characterized by the two government entities, the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (FBH) and Republika Srpska (RS). Inthe FBHthere are ten cantons and 79
municipalities with an average o f 7 municipalities per canton, while inthe RS there i s the entity
level government and 61 municipalities and two cities. Inaddition to these, there i s a district of
Brcko which i s a separately administered local government unit.Over 60 percent o f the country's
population is concentrated ineight regions and approximately 60 municipalities within the five
cantons inthe FBH(Tuzla, Sarajevo, Zenica, Mostar, Bihac) and inthree o f the RS regions
(Prijedor, Banja Luka and Doboj) around the company towns for steel, coal, heavy machinery such
as Zenica, Tuzla and Prijedor. The Government structure i s complex andthe sharing and flow o f
revenues within entities between cantons and municipalities i s complicatedand inefficient.

8.      Over half o f the municipalities (74-80) are under-developed and citizens are largely poor;
another 20 are marginally better off; while approximately 30 are better off and are able to borrow
for investments. Inthe poorest municipalities, local level social assessments conducted under the
Community Development Projectpoint to the need for basic public infrastructure and services in
needof repair, reconstructionor construction. Citizens express the hightransaction costs for the
poor inaccessing basic services or having their voices heard and the problem o fjoblessness. These
factors make investmentsintheir localities for businesses difficult. The young inparticular express
frustration with the lack of opportunities and the needto migrate in search for jobs elsewhere.

9.      Redistribution o f revenues i s often inconsistent and progressive and result insmaller and
poorer municipalities not receivingtheir due allocations. Some o f the poorest municipalitieshave
annual budgets of less then US$l.O million equivalent each andmore then 50%-80% ofthese
budgets are spent on covering administrative costs. This resource constraint translates into an
inability and a lack o f capacity to plan and address citizens increasing demand for basic services,
rehabilitation and maintenance o f social infrastructure(libraries, parks, sports centers, youth
centers, street lighting, garbage recycling, schools, clinics, citizen friendly municipal offices).
While investmentsinthe private sector are increasing, these areas ofpublic common goods are not
being financed. Responsibility for such investmentsrests with the municipalities. The financing o f
such investmentswill be through public sector investments.




                                                    4

10.     A majority ofmunicipalities inBiH, 88 ofthe total of 140, receivedfinancing for sub-
projects under the CDP. A majority o f CDP projects inthese poorest municipalities prioritize social
andcommunity level infrastructure through participatory means of identification and budgeting
which create the capacity for good governance and inclusion. Preliminary findings from the
ongoing impact evaluation suggestthat the CDP, inthe post Daytonmunicipalities inparticular, has
had a significant role inbuilding the capacity of municipal governments to planbudgetsand deliver
municipal services. Inthese municipalities inparticular the CDP has had a significant impact on
delivery o f services and on enhancing economic opportunities for residents as well as encouraging
the returnof internally displaced people. Without CDP financing many o fthe communitieswould
have beenwithout services. Changes inthe populationfigures for the year 2000 andmore recently
seem to indicate returns which could easily be attributed to accessible roads and services which
made returnpossible after the war's destruction.


Original Proiect Design:

11.     Through CDP, the World Bankhas been an important source o f financing for investments
by the poorest municipalitiesand a critical leverage for municipal reform as well as for participatory
processes for citizen involvement and planning. Municipalities have beenthe central partner for
implementation of the CDP which focuses on the poorest municipalities. Intaking this approach the
project has financed stability at the community level and investedinlong term sustainability of the
peace process and has launched a process of long-term institutional change based on citizen
participation. The CDP i s due to close on December 31,2006. These municipalities will continue
to requireassistance. The CDP has reached over 1.30millionbeneficiaries (334,900 households) or
25 percent o f the country's population inthe poorest municipalities. Average number o f
beneficiaries per project is 3,289 people.

12.     The CDP has invested inthe poorest communities with performancegrants through
municipal governments for nonrevenue generating investments. This approach has been
characterized by citizen driven decisionmaking throughperformance grants andparticipatory
budget planning betweenmunicipal governments andcitizens who agree to work amongst
communal groups for common goods. Experience shows that local government is a critical site of
empowerment. InBiHunder the CDP, 74 municipalities were identified as the poorest
municipalities (rural and semi urban) and by September 2006 over 88 (63 inthe FBHand
approximately 37-40 inthe RS') were assistedthroughtechnical assistance and performance grants
for non revenue generating physical and social infrastructure and capacity buildingfor participatory
budget planning. The CDP aimed to decreasetransaction costs for citizens who were poor to
participate indecision making for 397 community level municipal investments and governance.
Becausethese 88 municipalities (more thanhalf of the total number o f municipalities) are the
poorest inBiH, these performance grants can represent up-to 20 percent to 80 percent of total
municipal financing. The project has achieved a high level o f co-financing from municipalities and
citizens.

13.     This approach under the World Bank financed CDP focuses on citizens' participationin
municipal decision making for investments basedon citizens' identificationo f needs (for rural
roads, water supply, electricity, schools, clinics, street lighting,parks, libraries, sports facilities,
radio stations, agriculture cooperatives etc).


 due to changingprofiles o f poverty

                                                     5

14.     The CDP original financing was a total of SDR 11.8 million (IDA credit ofUS$15.0 million
equivalent) with counterpart financing o f US$2.63 million equivalent. Total project cost was
US$17.63 million. IDA financing was on standardIDA terms with a grace period 10 years; a
maturity o f 35 years; a commitment fee o f 0.5%; anda service fee of 0.75 %. The CDP credit was
approved on June 26,2001 and became effective on March 26,2002. Both IP andPDO have been
rated as Satisfactory throughout the implementation o f the original project.

15.     As has been done under the original project, the additional financing will provide support to
the existingthree project components:

        Component 1-Performance Based Grants (US$4.25 million):
    The proposedproject would provide grants as amechanism to target non revenue generating
    investments to low-income municipalities and their poor communitieswith a focus on
    improving service delivery, cost recovery, the financial management capacity o f local
    governments; and public accountability/communityparticipation. The additional credit will
    finance a subset of the same municipalities which participated inthe original CDP (only the
    poorest municipalities would be eligible to receive assistance from the additional credit). These
    requests for community investment financing were made over the past year by participating
    municipalities and could not be financed under the original credit due to limited availability of
    financing. The creditwould finance the pipelineo f subprojects (approximately 60 out of the
    120 requests inthe pipeline)that were unable to be financed under the existing CDP credit.
    Giventhat the additional financing will not be able to finance the full list o f projects inthe
    pipeline-the   selection o f projects would be carried out inclose consultation with the line
    ministriesand the PIUs.

        Component 2-Institutional Capacity Building (US$O.50 million):
    The project would increase the capacity of municipalitiesto improve service delivery through
    technical assistance and training. Capacity for municipalities would be developed inthe areas
    of participatory inclusive procedures such as citizens score cards. This component will be
    implementedinclose cooperation with the World Bank Institute.

        Component 3-Project Implementation (US$O.25 million):
    The project implementationarrangementswould remainthe same as for the CDP. Theproject
    would be implemented inpartnership betweenPIUs, municipalities and citizens associations
    andNGOs. Inthe FBH, the PIU responsible for the implementationwill operate as a part of the
    Federation Foundationfor Sustainable Development (ODRAZ). Inthe RS,the Development and
    Employment Fund(DEF) will be responsible for project management.

16. Supervision ratings for the Ongoing Project: Satisfactory.

Reasonsfor Additional Financing:

17.     The ongoing project has achieved its development objective and a multiple of social and
economic outcomes. Client demand i s very high and exceeds the financing available under the
CDP. A large number o f project applications from municipalities have been received which were
unable to be financed under the existing CDP credit. The Government has requestedthe World
Bank to continue to finance the CDP. Additional financing o f the CDP had been requested by the
Governments o f both Entities, the State Ministry o f Finance and Treasury and the participating
municipalities and their local communities. The additional financing would enablethe CDP to

                                                   6

cover these investments. The capacity o f the CDP to disburseand monitor results effectively is now
well established. Instrategic terms, this financing would continue the Bank's assistance and
engagement with the majority o f the municipalities inBiHwhich are also the poorest over the 18
monthperiod during which the Bank would prepare a municipal development project. The Bank
has developed a good working relationship with municipal governments which has allowed for
uninterruptedimplementationdespite the administrative complexities and uncertainties ofBiH.This
should be continued and strengthened.

18.      Implementation Arrangements for the Additional Financing: All implementation
arrangementswill continue to be the same as underthe original project, which have consistently
beenrated satisfactory on both DevelopmentObjectives and ImplementationProgress. Counterpart
financing was rated as highly satisfactory, Significant here i s the co-financing from citizens, which
inthe FBHis 17percent oftotal financing and26 percent of IDA financing. Inthe RSitis 9 percent
o f total financing and 13 percent o f IDA financing. Inthe FBHmunicipal governments' and
community and citizen organizations co-financing together signify 47.8 percent o f IDA while inthe
RS this amount is 41.O percent o f IDA.Inthe FBHthe CDP is implemented through ODRAZ
Foundation which is a quasi independent government foundation, and inthe RSthe project is
implementedthrough the Development Employment Fund(DEF) which is also a quasi independent
government foundation. The foundations work inpartnership withthe participating municipal
governments inthe project.

19.      The financial management systemto be usedunder the proposed additional financing is the
same as that usedunder the ongoing project. The financial management o f project activities has
been satisfactory. A recent financial management supervision missionnotedthat the project has
maintained satisfactory financial management arrangements. Internal control procedures are
documented and duly followed by project staff. The project maintains its accounting records
correctly and reconciles regularly all general ledger account balances with relevant source
documents. Budgets are preparedon time and agreedwith all relevant Government agencies and the
Bank. Audit reports for 2005 o f project accounts were submitted on time and were acceptable to the
Bank, with one minor management letter issue reported. The Guidelines o f Fiduciary Management
for Community-DrivenDevelopment Projects (CDD Guidelines)are taken into consideration,
where applicable.

20.      The two foundations ODRAZ and DEF are responsible for the financial management and
procurement under the project and for supervising and monitoring o f all activities financed under
the project. Both foundations are audited annually and audit reports are submittedto the Bank. The
project i s under the supervision o f Bank's FMS. 100 percent o f projects under the CDP have been
reviewedby the Bank for social and for procurement clearances.

21.      Environment (OP 4.01): The ongoing project i s a Category FI; the same rating will apply to
the activities supported by the additionalfinancing. An ISDShasbeenprepared for the additional
financing.


111. ExpectedOutcomes

22.      The proposed additional financing credit will benefit200,000 poor citizens inrural and
urban local communities inthe FBHand the RSthrough the implementationo f approximately 60



                                                   7

nonrevenue generating socio-economic infrastructure andproductive subprojects. The results
outcomes from the monitoredperformance indicators (attachment 1) of the CDP are that:

    (9      municipalities view citizens as partners for investment decision making;
    (ii) investmentsidentifiedinmunicipalstrategiesforfinancingarehighprioritiesforlocal
            communities andhave been identifiedby local communities;
    (iii) co-financingofprojectinvestmentsbylocalgovernments; citizensandprivatesector
            was high;
            internally displaced citizens have returnedto their municipalities;
            conditions have been created for economic development and opportunities for people to
            stay;
            improvement o f living conditions for citizens through restoration of basic services has
            enabled return o f residents;
    (vii)   created enabling environment for economic activity; and
    (viii) created enabling environment for lasting peace.

IV.BenefitsandRisks

23.     The economic, social and political benefits o f the additional financing credit have been
discussedindetail throughout this project paper. The projectwill directly affect an additional
200,000 citizens inthe poorest communities inBiH; continue to strengthen the capacity of
participatingmunicipalities to deliver quality services to citizens while increasing citizens access to
municipal services. The project also allows for theBankto have a presence and a visibly positive
involvement at the local community and municipal level.

24.     The risk of not continuing with the CDP is that the municipalities which are currently unable
to raise revenues for capital investmentswill not be able to meet the needs o f their citizens for basic
service delivery. They will continue to lag interms of creating an enabling environment for
stability and economic development andwill be further delayed intheir development towards credit
worthiness and their ability to absorb other sources o f financing such as EUaccession funds when
those become available.

25.     Generally the financial management capacity and accountability inthe public sector is low,
encompassing poor governance and corruptionthat undermines the effective implementationof
projects and the achievement o f their development objectives, The project will be implementedby
two experienced project unitswith long experience with implementation o f Bank financed projects
and with elaborate procedures securing proper internal controls. The Bank's supervision which
includes 100%prior review o f subprojects financed under the CDP i s designedto follow-up on
these procedures and monitor the achieved outputs o f the project.

V. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

26.     The additional financing credit would beprovidedon IDA hardenedterms, with a grace
period 10 years; a maturity of 20 years; a commitment fee of 0.5%; and a service fee o f 0.75 %.




                                                   8

VI. Allocationof CreditProceeds


         ProjectComponents               Borrower        IDA Financing         Total Project
                                       Contribution          (US$M)            Cost inUS$M
                                          (US$M)
1.PerformanceBased Grants                   0.75             4.25                    5.00
2. Institutional Capacity Building                           0.50                    0.50
3. ProjectImplementation                     0.25            0.25                    0.50
                    TOTAL                    1.00            5.00                    6.00


27.      Counterpartfunding will be provided from the entity budgets, participating local
governments andtheir communities. Counterpartfunding by participating local governments and
local communities may beincash and inkind(labor, material) and may not beless than 15% o fthe
total value of a given sub-project. Counterpartfunding for the project implementation (i.e.
incrementaloperating costs) will becovered from the entity budgets.




                                                 9

                                                  AttachmentI
                     Pro ct DevelopmentObjectives:PerformanceIndicators
                                         -I_.-_
                           _I _II  I-1-1

                                                                                                x_
        Indicator                                                 rogress to Date in CDP                Expected
                                                                                                           Results
?DOIndicator              ---                                                                      .dditional

                                                                                                   7-w-.m*l*
                                                                                                   inancing
1.Municipalities and                                               sub projects completed.         4t least 60 o f
citizens identified        :itizens and municipal                                                  ie 120
investments insocial                                                                               ibprojects in
infrastructure inthe       iriority investments.                                                   le pipeline
poorest municipalities o f                               1, 306,110 beneficiaries or over 25%      nanced in a
BH(80 municipalities)                                    o fBosnia Herzegovina citizens.           ibset o f
through performance                                                                                iunicipalities
grants.                    iocial infrastructure inthe   75 local roads projects                   wered under
2. 400 sub projects to be  loorest municipalities.                                                 le CDP.
completed                                                3 irrigation systemsrestorations



                           :apital investments.




                           var.                          musical instruments ,sports and other
                                                         equipmentfor schools, youth centers,
                                                         sports clubs, cultural centers and

                                                         40 repairheconstruction and supply
                                                         with computer equipment and books



                                                         2 equipments for agriculture

                                                         33 trainings sessions for self

                                                         7 ecological projects
                                                         6 projects for handicapped and
                                                         marginalized groups.
                                                         14 Capacity buildingprograms for
                                                         local governments.

                                                         Population increases between 2000-
                                                         2006 intarget municipalities seem to
                                                         indicate returns that could be directly
                                                         attributed to sub projects.




                                                       10

,2. Strengthening o f        ,ow capacity inthe poorest      2itizens identified priority investments  crease capacit
 Capacity o f poorest 80     nunicipalities for project      nMunicipal Developmentplans               *municipalitie
 municipalities in           inancing; citizen outreach and  :$rough   town hall meetings based on      deliver
 participatory processes for iarticipatory planning o f      ;ocial assessments and formation o f      rvices-
'planning, identifying and   nunicipal investments.
I financing                                                  :ommunity action groups and local         crease access
           municipal social                                  :ommunity councils in 88 poorest          -citizens to
I investments.                                               nunicipalities.                           unicipal
                             'rojects implemented by                                                   brvices.
                             nunicipalities without citizen  Each municipality received an average     icrease
                             )articipation                   s f 5 performance grants which were       teraction
                                                             :o-financed  by municipalities, citizens  :tween citizen!
                             Von transparent, non            2nd private partnerships o f upto 47%     id municipal
                             iarticipatory planning          s f each grant.                           ivernments
                             xocedures inpoorest                                                       icrease citizen
                             nunicipalities                  Total performance grants per              irticipation in
                                                             nunicipality on average increased         idget planning
                                                             investment financing by five to ten
                                                             times inthat municipality.                icrease
                                                                                                       )operation and
                                                             [ncreased level o f municipal             iordination an
                                                             government, citizens, private and NGO irtnerships
                                                             participation. Their co financing upto    :tween
                                                             $0-47 percent o f IDA financing.          IDRAZ,DEF,
                                                                                                       DAs.
                                                             Municipal governments viewed
                                                             citizens participation and transparency   everage
                                                             of financial decision making as key to    nancing for
                                                             improvement ininvestments; service        iunicipalities
                                                             delivery and ability to raise financing.  rough
                                                                                                       sntinuedhighe
                                                             80 newly elected mayors received          ites o f co-
                                                             training inparticipatory budget           nancing..
                                                             planning in2005.


                                                             Capacity o f CDP and relationship with
                                                             municipalities is being tapped into by
                                                             other Bank projects for
                                                             implementation as well as information
                                                             collection (remittance migration
                                                             survey for ECA regional study) and
                                                             dissemination
                                                                      ___ - (Social
                                                                              - - Audits, PEIR).
                                                                  I_I   I                          I_




                                                           11




