Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3538-1 BOS 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3538-1 BOS 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2007, entered into between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) 
(“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section VI of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15
th
 and November 15
th
 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause: (a) Part A of the Project to be carried out by the 
Federation; and (b) Part B of the Project to be carried out by the Republika 
Srpska, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
either Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its 
respective Project Agreement or Subsidiary Agreement or the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that either Entity shall be able to perform its obligations 
under its respective Project Agreement or Subsidiary Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
either Operational Manual shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed 
or otherwise modified without the prior written agreement of the 
Association. 
 
4.03. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: any 
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs 
and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of the event has 
been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
a Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Association and 
an Entity, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 5.01: 
 
(i) 
a Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Entity concerned, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(ii) 
the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association has been 
adopted. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Project Agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Entity concerned and is legally 
binding on said Entity in accordance with its terms; and  
 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and the Entity 
concerned and is legally binding upon the Recipient and said Entity in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Trg BiH 1  
 71000 
Sarajevo 
 Bosnia 
and 
Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387-33) 471-822 
Page  5
-
4
-
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI)  
 
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above  written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Dragan Vrankic    
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
 
Toby Linden 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (i) basic services and facilities for 
low income and poor communities in under-served municipalities; and (ii) the 
governance and capacity of local governments to deliver services to poor communities in 
partnership with the communities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
The Federation 
1. 
Performance Grant Program
(a) 
Provision of services to conduct financial, social and operational 
assessment of local governments. 
 
(b) 
Provision of services to develop financial and operational action plans to 
improve the performance of local governments. 
 
(c) 
Provision of Performance Grants to Beneficiaries to implement the 
financial and operational action plans under subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, including 
the investment of non-revenue generating social infrastructure and services. 
 
2.   
Institutional Strengthening
Provision of services to strengthen the capacity of municipal governments, 
community associations and organizations to perform social analysis, project 
identification and monitoring and evaluation under the Project. 
 
3. Project 
Implementation
Provision of services, goods and incremental operating costs to the Federation 
PIU in the course of Project implementation and for purposes of audit of the Project 
accounts. 
 
Part B:
Republika Srpska 
1. 
Performance Grant Program
(a) 
Provision of services to conduct financial and operational assessment of 
local governments. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Provision of services to develop financial and operational action plans to 
improve the performance of local governments. 
 
(c) 
Provision of Performance Grants to Beneficiaries to implement the 
financial and operational action plans under subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, including 
the investment of non-generating social infrastructure and services. 
 
2.   
Institutional Strengthening
Provision of services to strengthen the capacity of municipal government, 
community associations and organizations to perform social analysis, project 
identification and monitoring and evaluation under the Project. 
 
3. Project 
Implementation
Provision of services, goods and incremental operating costs to the Republika 
Srpska PIU in the course of Project implementation and for purposes of audit of the 
Project accounts. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Entities to, carry out the Project in 
accordance with the following institutional and other arrangements: 
 
1.  
Part A of the Project shall be carried out by the Federation, through the 
Federation PIU, and Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the Republika Srpska, 
through the Republika Srpska PIU.   
 
2.  
The Federation PIU and the Republika Srpska PIU shall be responsible for the 
overall management and implementation
 of the Entities’ respective parts of the Project, 
including the procurement, the financial management, the environmental management, 
and monitoring and evaluation, in accordance with the Operational Manual, including the 
Guidelines, and satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section II.  
Implementation Covenants
1.  
The Recipient shall cause the Federation to maintain the Federation PIU at all 
times during Project implementation, and the Recipient shall cause Republika Srpska to 
maintain the Republika Srpska PIU during the same period, in each case with such staff 
and resources as shall be required for the Federation PIU and the Republika Srpska PIU, 
as the case may be, to perform its duties in respect of the overall management and 
implementation of Part A and Part B, as the case may be, of the Project in accordance 
with the Operational Manual, including the Guidelines, and satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
2.  
The Recipient shall cause the Entities to carry out the Project in accordance the 
Operational Manual, including the Guidelines, and maintain the Operational Manual until 
the completion of the Project, and unless the Association may otherwise agree, not to 
amend, repeal or waive, or permit to be amended, repealed or waived, the Operational 
Manual, including the Guidelines, or any provision of either one thereof.  
 
Section III.  
Subsidiary Agreements
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make 
part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the Federation under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Federation (“Federation Subsidiary 
Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Association, which shall 
include the following:  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
the Recipient shall relend to the Federation an amount in Euro 
equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories A.(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 of Part A of Section VI of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be 20 years, including a 
10-year grace period; 
 
(iii) 
the Recipient shall charge the Federation a commitment charge 
at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing 
not withdrawn from time to time; 
 
(iv) 
the Recipient shall charge the Federation a service charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable 
under Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
 
(v) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing shall be 
repayable in Euro and shall be the equivalent in SDRs 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Financing Account on account of expenditures for the Project.  
 
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make 
part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the Republika Srpska under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the RS (“RS Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms 
and conditions approved by the Association, which shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
the Recipient shall relend to the RS an amount in Euro 
equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories B.(5), (6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 of Part A of Section VI of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be 20 years, including a 
10 -year grace period; 
 
(iii) 
the Recipient shall charge the RS a commitment charge at a rate 
equal to the rate payable under Section 2.03 of this Agreement, 
on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing not 
withdrawn from time to time; 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iv) 
the Recipient shall charge the RS service charge on the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Financing withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable under 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
 
(v)  
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing shall be 
repayable in Euro and shall be the equivalent in SDRs  
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Financing Account on account of expenditures for the Project. 
 
3.  
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive either of the Subsidiary Agreements 
or any of their respective provisions. 
 
Section IV. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient, through the Federation PIU for purposes of Part A of the 
Project, and through the Republika Srpska PIU for purposes of Part B of the Project, shall 
monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
twenty one (21) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient, through the Federation PIU for purposes of Part A of the 
Project, and through the Republika Srpska PIU for purposes of Part B of the Project, 
respectively, shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2008, 
a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the respective 
Entity’s part of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the respective Entity’s part of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(ii) 
review with the Association, by October 31, 2008, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain and cause the Entities, through the Federation PIU 
and the Republika Srpska PIU, respectively, to maintain a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section IV, the Recipient 
shall cause each of the Entities, through the Federation PIU and the Republika Srpska 
PIU, respectively, to prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for Part A 
and Part B, respectively, of the Project covering such quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3.  
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient or such other 
period as agreed by the Association.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of 
such period. 
 
Section V. 
Procurement
A. General 
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing 
shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I 
of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
Page  12
-
11
-
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(1) Registration 
 
(i) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
 
(ii) 
Where registration is required, bidders (1) shall be allowed 
a
reasonable time to complete the registration process, and 
(2) shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to 
their capability and resources to successfully perform the 
contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification.  
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a 
registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity to register. 
 
(2) Advertising 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of twenty one (21) 
days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(3) Pre-qualification 
 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex 
works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at 
least on
e
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 
Page  13
-
12
-
Procurement Method 
 
30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification 
applications.  Minimum experience, and technical and financial 
requirements, shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification 
documents. 
 
(4) 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
including those in the Federation and Republika Srpska, shall be 
eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they 
are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
law and are not a dependent agency of the contracting authority.  
Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(5) Bidding 
Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding 
documents for the procurement of goods, works or services, 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
(6) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having 
submitted the lowest-evaluated, substantially responsive 
bid and no negotiation shall take place. 
 
(7) Price 
Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(8) 
Rejection of Bids 
 
(i)
All bids shall not 
be rejected and new bids solicited 
Page  14
-
13
-
Procurement Method 
 
without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
(ii) 
When the number of bids received is less than three, re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
ECA Regional Sample Bidding Documents, modified as acceptable to the 
Association, shall be used. 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
All contracts shall be subject to the Association’s Prior Review. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Section VI. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient
 (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
A.  Part A of the Project 
(1) Works 
 
(2) Goods  
 
(3) Consultants’ services for the  
 
Project 
 
(4) Operating Costs 
 
1,550,000 
 
202,500 
 
202,500 
 
85,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
B.  Part B of the Project 
(5) Works 
 
(6) Goods  
 
(7) Consultants’ services for the 
 
Project 
 
(8) Operating Costs 
 
1,030,000 
 
132,500 
 
132,500 
 
65,000
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,400,000
Page  16
-
15
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
(b) 
Under Categories allocated to Part A or Part B of the Project unless:  
(i) 
A Project Agreement between the Association and the Entity 
responsible for implementing Part A or Part B of the Project, 
as the case may be, has been executed, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association;  
(ii) 
A Subsidiary Agreement between the Recipient and such 
Entity has been executed, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association; 
(iii) 
An opinion has been furnished to the Association stating that 
such Project Agreement and Subsidiary Agreement have been 
duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are 
legally binding upon them in accordance with their respective 
terms; and 
 
(iv) 
The Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association has 
been adopted by such Entity.   
 
2. 
The Closing Date is August 31, 2008. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a 
percentage)* 
 
On each May 15th and November 15th commencing May 
15, 2017 to and including November 15, 2026: 
 
5% 
 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions
.
Page  18
-
17
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means for the purposes of Part A of the Project, an Eligible 
Municipality (as hereafter defined) among the municipalities agreed between the 
Federation (as hereafter defined) and the Association, and, for the purposes of 
Part B of the Project, an Eligible Municipality (as hereafter defined) among the 
municipalities agreed between Republika Srpska (as hereafter defined) and the 
Association. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section VI of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Eligible Municipality” means for the purposes of Part A of the Project, a 
Municipality (as hereafter defined) of the Federation, which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Guidelines (as hereafter defined) among the 
Municipalities agreed between the Federation and the Association, and, for the 
purposes of Part B of the Project, a Municipality of Republika Srpska, which 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Guidelines among the Municipalities 
agreed between Republika Srpska and the Association. 
 
5. 
“Entity” means the Federation or Republika Srpska (as these expressions are 
hereafter defined), as the case may be, and “Entities” refers to the Federation and 
Republika Srpska collectively. 
 
6. 
“Federation” means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
subdivision of the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
7. 
“Federation PIU” means the Project implementation unit, a legal entity 
established pursuant to Government Decree 14/1996, dated August 16, 1996, 
which has become a division of the Foundation for Sustainable Development, an 
established legal entity, as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section I of 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, and such term includes any successor or 
successors thereto satisfactory to the Association. 
 
8. 
“Federation Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association 
and the Federation of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Federation Project Agreement. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
9. 
“Federation Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Federation, referred to in paragraph 1 of Section 
III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Federation Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
11. 
“Guidelines” means the guidelines, which form an integral part of the 
Operational Manual (as hereafter defined), referred to in Sections I and II of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreements (as hereafter defined), setting out the 
operational and administrative procedures for the preparation, approval 
processing, financing, implementation and supervision of the Performance Grants 
(as hereafter defined), as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time 
with the prior written agreement of the Association. 
 
12. 
“Municipality” means an administrative subdivision of the Federation or 
Republika Srpska, as the case may be, and “Municipalities” means, collectively, 
more than one such Municipality. 
 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental expenditures 
related to the operation of the Federation PIU and the Republika Srpska PIU, 
respectively, including on account of Project management, implementation, and 
monitoring and evaluation, as approved by Association on the basis of budgets 
acceptable to the Association, which would not have been incurred absent the 
Project and include the costs of salaries for the Federation PIU and the Republika 
Srpska PIU (except salaries of civil servants), travel costs, office rent, audits, 
office and vehicle maintenance, utilities and office supplies, and other 
miscellaneous costs as may be agreed with the Association from time to time. 
 
14. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, including the Guidelines, satisfactory 
to the Association, to be adopted by the Federation PIU and the Republika Srpska 
PIU (as hereafter defined), referred to in Sections I and II of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement and Sections I and II of the Schedule to the Project Agreements, 
setting out the operational and administrative procedures for the implementation 
of the Project, and as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Association. 
 
15. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Community Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated October 19, 2001 (Credit No. 3538 BOS). 
 
16. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
17. 
“Performance Grants” means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for the financing of one or more Sub-
projects (as hereafter defined) as set out in the Guidelines. 
 
18. 
“Performance Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Federation 
PIU and a Beneficiary, or the Republika Srpska PIU and a Beneficiary, as the 
case may be, and referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 (b) of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreements. 
 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 20, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. 
“Project Agreement” means either the Federation Project Agreement or the 
Republika Srpska Project Agreement, as the case may be, and “Project 
Agreements” means said project agreements, collectively. 
 
22. 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “Entity” means either the Federation or RS (as 
hereafter defined), as the case may be, and “Project Implementing Entities” or 
“Entities” means the Federation and RS, collectively. 
 
23. 
“Republika Srpska” or “RS” means Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of 
the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 
24. 
“Republika Srpska PIU” means the Project implementation unit, located in the 
Development and Employment Foundation of the Republika Srpska created 
pursuant to Government Decision No. 02/1-020-861/00, dated September 5, 
2000, as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section I of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement, and such term includes any successor or successors thereto 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
25. 
“RS Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and RS 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the RS Project 
Agreement.  
 
26. 
“RS Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the RS, referred to in paragraph 2 of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
Page  21
-
20
-
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to each Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Sub-project” means an activity referred to under Parts A.1.(c) and B.1.(c) of the 
Project, and in respect of which a Performance Grant is provided, or proposed to 
be provided, for the benefit of a Beneficiary. 
 
28. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the Federation Subsidiary Agreement and the RS 
Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, and the term “Subsidiary 
Agreements” means said agreements collectively.  
 
29. 
“Subsidiary Financing” means the financing to be made out of the proceeds of 
the Financing provided to each Entity under a Subsidiary Agreement.
 
