Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3538-1 BOS 
 
Federation Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
Dated June 5, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3538-1 BOS  
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 5, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and FEDERATION OF BOSNIA 
AND HERZEGOVINA (“Federation” or “FBH”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement of same date between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
(“Recipient”) and the Association (the “Financing Agreement”).  The Association and the 
Federation hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall carry out Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the 
Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall carry out its Respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
3.01. 
The Federation’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Federation of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 
Page  3
2
3.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Federation’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina  
Mehmeda Spahe 5 
71000 Sarajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
387 33 203 152 
 
AGREED at Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first 
above written.  
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/  Toby Linden  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Borjana Kristo  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Federation
’s Respective Part of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Institutional Arrangements
The Federation shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance 
with the following coordination mechanisms: 
 
1.  
The Federation PIU shall be responsible for the overall management and 
implementation of the Federation
’s Respective Part of the Project, including the 
procurement, the financial management, the environmental management, and monitoring 
and evaluation, in accordance with the Operational Manual, including the Guidelines, and 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section II.  
Implementation Covenants
1.  
The Federation shall maintain the Federation PIU at all times during Project 
implementation, with such staff and resources as shall be required for the Federation PIU 
to perform its duties in respect of the overall management and implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, including the 
Guidelines, and satisfactory to the Association.  
 
2.  
The Federation shall cause the Federation PIU to carry out the Project in 
accordance the Operational Manual, including the Guidelines, and maintain the 
Operational Manual until the completion of the Project, and unless the Association may 
otherwise agree, not to amend, repeal or waive, or permit to be amended, repealed or 
waived, the Operational Manual, including the Guidelines, or any provision of either one 
thereof.  
 
3. 
In carrying out Part A.1.(c) of the Project, the Federation shall follow the 
Guidelines, which form an integral part of the Operational Manual, and shall give details 
of all procedural arrangements for the review, appraisal, supervision, and monitoring and 
evaluation, of Sub-projects, including procedures for submission and review of requests 
for financing, criteria for the review and approval of Sub-projects, and approval of 
Performance Grants, applicable procurement, disbursement and other implementation 
guidelines, and model forms of Performance Grant Agreements and works contracts with 
local contractors. 
 
4. 
In carrying out Part A.1.(c) of the Project the following terms and conditions 
shall apply: 
 
(a) 
Performance Grants shall be provided for the benefit of Beneficiaries and 
shall be acceptable to the Association and specified in the Guidelines; provided however 
that: 
Page  5
4
(i) 
no Performance Grant shall be granted except to finance a Sub-
project which (i.1) is technically sound and feasible, and (i.2) 
contributes  to  improvement of the governance of Beneficiaries; 
and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the amount of 
each Performance Grant shall not exceed $50,000 equivalent, or 
ninety percent (90%) of the total cost of the Sub-project, 
whichever is less. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of each Performance Grant, the Federation PIU shall 
conclude a Performance Grant Agreement with the Beneficiary in the form of the 
model provided in the Guidelines, setting forth the respective obligations of the 
parties thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement 
procedures, as they may apply, the amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution to 
the cost of the Sub-project, and the right of the Federation to: 
 
(i) 
require the Beneficiary (A) to carry out the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, 
and to maintain adequate records, and (B) upon completion of 
the Sub-project, to make provision for the maintenance of any 
productive assets resulting therefrom, and for the payment of 
recurrent expenditures generated thereunder; 
 
(ii) 
obtain all such information as the Association or the Federation 
shall reasonably request relating to the implementation of the 
Sub-project and the performance of the Beneficiary thereunder; 
and 
 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of a Performance Grant upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under such agreement. 
 
Section III.  
Subsidiary Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the
 
Federation shall enter 
into a subsidiary agreement with the Recipient pursuant to which the Recipient shall 
make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the Federation (“Federation 
Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by the Association, which 
shall include the following:  
 
(i) 
the Recipient shall relend to the Federation an amount in Euro  
equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories A.(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in 
Page  6
5
paragraph 2 of Part A of Section VI of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be 20 years, including a 
10-year grace period; 
 
(iii) 
the Recipient shall charge the Federation a commitment charge 
at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.03 of the 
Financing Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary 
Financing not withdrawn from time to time; 
 
(iv) 
the Recipient shall charge the Federation a service charge on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable 
under Section 2.04 of the Financing Agreement; and 
 
(v)  
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Financing shall be 
repayable in Euro and shall be the equivalent in SDRs  
(determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Financing Account on account of expenditures for the Project. 
 
3.  
The Federation shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Federation shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
of its provisions. 
 
Section IV. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A.  
Project Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall monitor and evaluate 
the progress of its Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
twenty one (21) days after the end of the period covered by such report.   
 
(b) 
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2008, 
a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
Page  7
6
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Federation
’s 
Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(ii) 
review with the Association, by October 31, 2008, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
 
B.  
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Federation shall maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of 
the Federation, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its 
Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Federation, 
through the Federation PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 
one month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for 
its Respective Part of the Project covering such quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Federation, through the Federation PIU, shall have its financial statements 
referred to above periodically audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of the financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Federation or such other period as agreed by the Association.  The audited 
financial statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section V. 
Procurement
All goods, works, services and Operating Costs required for the Federation’s 
Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
