Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14978-SLO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENVIRONNENT PROJECT
May 1, 1996
Energy, Environment and Transport Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Slovene Tolar (SIT)
June   Dec.  Feb.  Aug.  Oct.  Jan.
1992   1993  1994   1994  1995  1995   1995   1996
US$1.00              81.3  113.2  129.9  130.0  124.0  122.1  115.2  127.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA Component -    Air Pollution Abatement Component
APAP            -    Air Pollution Abatement Program
DM              -    Deutsche Marks
EFSAL           -    Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EIA             -    Environmental Impact Assessment
EU              -    European Union
FGD             -    Flue Gas Desulfurization
GIC             -    Geographical Information Center
GIS             -    Geographical Information System
GDP             -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB             -    International Competitive Bidding
FA              -    Financial Agent
IMF             -    International Monetary Fund
IRP             -    Investment Recovery Project
LIB             -    Limited International Bidding
LPG             -    Liquid Petroleum Gas
KBM             -    Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
MEPP            -    Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
PHARE           -    Poland Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PIP             -    Project Implementation Plan
PIT             -    Project Implementation Team
PM              -    Particulate Matter (PM,O - particles less than 10 microns in
diameter)
SIT             -    Slovenian Tolar
SOE             -    Statements of Expenditure
SO2             -    Sulfur Dioxide
TA              -    Technical Assistance
TSP             -    Total Suspended Particles
TWh             -    Terawatthour (1012 Wh)
WHO             -    World Health Organization
SLOVENIA-FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary  ................... iii
I.   Introduction                                                                     1
II. The Energy Sector and the Environment          ..                                 3
A. The Energy Sector in Slovenia .3
B. The Environment in Slovenia.                                                  3
1. Air Pollution.                                                          4
2. Water Pollution.                                                        6
3. Solid Wastes.                                                           7
4.  Administrative and Regulatory Framework.                               7
III. The Project  ...........                            ..                           8
A. Introduction ..........                                                       8
B.   Air Pollution Abatement Component (World Bank Loan of DM30 million
equivalent) .......                                                        9
1. Background ........... 9
2. Objective ........... 10
3. Description.                      ........... 10
C.   Geographical Information System Component (World Bank Loan of DM4.6
million equivalent)    ..15
1. Background .15
2. Objectives .15
3. Description .16
D. Project Costs    ..17
E. Project Financing                             ..                             18
F. Environmental Impact              ..18
IV. Project Implementation  ....................    19
A. The Borrowers and Beneficiaries .19
1. The APA Component .19
2.  The GIS Component .................................. 21
B. The World Bank Loans    ..21
C. Management and Implementation    ..21



ii
D.    Procurement .          .........................................  22
E.  Disbursements .......................................... 22
F.  Auditing ............................................ 23
G.    Monitoring and Reporting   .................................  23
H.    Status of Project Preparation ................................  24
I.     Financial Analysis of the Air Pollution Abatement Program  ....                 ........  24
V.   Benefits and Risks            ..........................................   26
A.    APA Component: Economic Analysis and Benefits  ..... ..                       ..........  26
B.    Benefits of the GIS Component ..............                        ................  31
C.    Risks                 ..........................................  31
1.   APA Component ....................................  31
2.   GIS Component ..........                   ...........................  34
VI. Agreements and Recommendations .34
Annexes
Annex 1-1       List of Documents on File
Annex 2-1       Health and Economic Benefits
Annex 3-1       Key Assumptions, Fuel Use, Emissions, and Ambient Air Quality, Conversion
Rates, and Costs and Benefits of the Project
Annex 3-2       Project Implementation Plan
Annex 3-3       Monitoring Indicators
Annex 4-1       References
Annex 4-2       Financial Projections for the Air Pollution Abatement Program
Map             Slovenia (IBRD No. 26882)
This report was prepared on the basis of pre-appraisal missions to Slovenia in March and September 1994, and the
appraisal mission in February 1995. The missions were led by Mr. Helmut Schreiber (EC2ET; Task Manager).
Mission members were Messrs./Mmes.: Hormoz Aghdaey (EC2CO); Wendy Ayres (ENVPE; Consultant);
Gordon Hughes (ENVPE); Naushad Khan (EC2DR); Tamas Markus (EC2HU); Paul Teleki (Consultant). The
report was issued by the Energy, Environment and Transport Division (Hans J. Apitz, Division Chief) of the
Central Europe Department (Jane Loos, Acting Director).
C:\DATA\WB\SLO-ENV\SAR\SA-1 .WPD



(iii)
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 Environmental Fund of Slovenia (EcoFund) for Air Pollution Abatement Component;
Republic of Slovenia for Geographical Information System Component.
Guarantor                 Republic of Slovenia (for Air Pollution Abatement Component only).
Beneficiaries             Air Pollution Abatement (APA) Component: Residents of heavily polluted cities who
receive loans from the EcoFund under the Air Pollution Abatement Program (APAP)
to convert from dirty fuels to cleaner fuels.
Geographical Information System (GIS) Co=ponent: Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning.
Loan Amounts              DM 34.6 million equivalent (DM 30 million for the APA Component and DM 4.6
million for the GIS Component).
Terms                     LIBOR-based Single Currency Loans in Deutsche Mark (DM) repayable over 15 years
with 5 years grace period for level repayment of principal at the World Bank's
variable interest rate.
Commitnent Fee            0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms           [For APA Component only]: Interest rate: Two percentage points above World Bank
rate. Terms: Households up to 6 years. Boilerhouse operators: up to 10 years.
Poverty Category          Not applicable.
Project Cost              (DM Million):                       Loal        Foreign      Total
Financing Plan                                                APAP Component  GIS Component
IBRD:                                     30.0              4.6
EcoFund:                                  10.0              -
Final Borrowers under APAP:               10.0              -
Government:                               --                0.8
50.0              5.4
Economic Rate of Return    Air Pollution Abatement Component:        Between 38-62%
Geographical Information System Component:   Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report    14 978-SLO
Project ED Number         8853






THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
l. INTRODUCTION
1.    Slovenia is a former republic of Yugoslavia which became an independent state in 1991.
The country is situated on the south-eastern fringes of the Alps, bordered by Austria in the north,
Italy in the west, Hungary in the east, and Croatia in the south. Slovenia is one of the smallest
countries in Europe; with an area of 20,250 square kilometers it is about half the size of
Switzerland. The country has a population of about two million people and a relatively low
population density of about 97 persons per square kilometer, similar to France and about half that
of Great Britain. The capital city, Ljubljana, with a population of about 300,000, is the country's
largest city. The second largest city is Maribor, with a population of about 105,000 inhabitants.
2.    Economic Environment. With a per capita income of about US$7,000 in 1994, Slovenia
is the most prosperous country in the Central and East European region. The Slovene economy
is oriented towards services and manufacturing, with the service sector accounting for about 55
percent of total output, and industry accounting for about 30 percent. The economy relies heavily
on trade, with exports and imports each averaging over 60 percent of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) in recent years. Trade with the European Union accounts for about 60 % of Slovenia's
external trading volume.
3.    Slovenia's overall macroeconomic performance in recent years has been quite positive:
real GDP grew by 5.5 % and 5.0 % in 1994 and 1995 (estimate), respectively, compared to 1.0
% in 1993. Inflation was 8.6 % per annum in 1995. The recovery in investment and GDP has
been accompanied by current account surpluses of about 3 % of GDP in 1994 and 1995. Reserves
now comprise more than 4.5 months of imports.
4.    Slovenia, as one of the successors of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
inherited that republic's portfolio of Bank loans of projects located within its boundaries. Of
these, only one loan for the Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sanitation Project remains ongoing.
Slovenia became a member of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in December 1992, and a
member of the World Bank Group in February 1993, as a successor to membership of the former
Yugoslavia. Last year's staff report on Article IV consultations was discussed at the IMF Board
on September 1, 1995. Close cooperation has been maintained with IMF staff.
5.    The Bank's program of assistance to Slovenia focuses on the core of the Government's
structural reform program, i.e. reform of the enterprise and banking sectors and on the



2
environment. The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), the first and only
loan approved since independence, supports the Government's efforts in privatization of socially-
owned enterprises, governance reform of State-owned enterprises, bank restructuring and
privatization, enhancement of the regulatory framework for banking, labor market adjustment, and
strengthening of the social safety net. Overall implementation of the program supported by the
EFSAL progressed well, and the second tranche was released in December 1995. In addition, an
Investment Recovery Loan is currently under preparation by the Bank and is expected to be
negotiated soon.
6.    Because of its relatively high per capita income, and growing access to other sources of
international finance, the scope for World Bank support is being tailored to a few key areas where
the Slovenes consider the Bank's inputs to be particularly helpful (i.e. banking and environment).
A limited Country Assistance Strategy was included in the EFSAL President's Report dated June
22, 1993.
7.    In March of 1993 the Slovenian Government requested the Bank to cooperate in preparing
the Slovenia - Environment Project and to help fund an Air Pollution Abatement Program in major
Slovenian cities as well as a Geographical Information System. The Slovenia - Environment
Project is in line with the Bank's assistance strategy to focus on high-priority projects with strong
economic returns. Air pollution has been the highest priority area for the Slovenian Government
in the field of environmental protection. In addition, the project helps the country to develop and
strengthen an institution, the EcoFund, that will be active in dealing with environmental issues
in other sectors as well. Moreover, the project serves as a catalyst for activities to improve the
country's environment. European agencies such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) and the European Union (EU), are currently supporting the improvement
of Slovenia's environment to bring the country's environmental performance in line with Western
European countries. The EU, the British Know How Fund, the Austrian Government, USAID
and other bilateral and international donors have supported the preparation of this project.
8.    Documents and detailed information concerning the sector and the project are available in
the Project Files (Anne L1).



3
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT
A.    The Energy Sector in Slovenia
9.    Around two thirds of Slovenia's fossil fuel requirements are met by imports. Slovenia has
about 75 million tons of proven reserves of brown coal, 243 million tons of lignite and 35
thousand tons of uranium.  Oil and gas reserves are negligible.  Total primary energy
consumption was 6.24 million tons oil equivalent (mtoe) in 1988. Until 1992, it dropped by 18%
to 5 mtoe, mostly as a result of economic contraction in the wake of the transition to a market
economy, which needed to reorient itself after independence. Of 1992 total primary energy
consumption (after losses, which account for 40%) 38% went to industry, 38% to households and
small enterprises, and 23 % to the transport sector. Enterprises in the power subsector have been
reorganized into three separate groups: seven independent power generation enterprises; a holding
company (ELES) which owns the transmission grid and the distribution enterprises; and the
nuclear power plant (KRSKO) which is 50% owned by ELES and 50% by Croatia. The
enterprises for transmission and distribution of natural gas have also been reorganized and the
socially-owned shares of these enterprises are being privatized. A draft law on Production,
Transmission, and Distribution of Energy is near completion, and is currently being aligned with
European Union (EU) legislation. Two studies on the legal, regulatory, and institutional
framework of the power sector and on the regulatory framework of the gas subsector are nearly
completed.
10.   The Government has been implementing its "Strategy for Rational Use and Supply of
Energy in Slovenia" which calls for a 7 % real annual increase in power prices for the next few
years, with a view of achieving 80 % of average EU prices by 1998 and parity by the year 2000.
Power prices were increased twice in 1994 by a total of 25.2 % in nominal terms, and once in
April 1995, by 15 % in nominal terms. The Government increased power prices again in August
1995 by 7 % in nominal terms. As a result, Slovene power prices for industry and household are
currently at 73 % and 65% of the average EU prices, respectively. (The current power price
levels for industry are equal to those in France, the Netherlands, Finland, and Greece and higher
than in Sweden. Power prices for households are at the same level as those in Sweden.)
Enterprises in the power subsector and transmission and distribution of natural gas have been
reorganized, with the intent of eventual privatization. This process has started in the hydropower
sector.
B.    The Environment in Slovenia
11.   Slovenia's extensive areas of natural beauty, its well-preserved towns and cities, and its
location have made it a popular destination for tourists. Tourism is expected to grow rapidly over
the next decades as western Europeans seek new destinations and as Central and Eastern



4
Europeans enjoy rising incomes. Slovenia has abundant natural resources and a relatively
unspoiled environment. About 53 % of its territory is forested, well above the European average
of 33 %. The country has one national park, Triglav in the Julian Alps, which provides habitat
to several endangered species, including the ibex and the capercaillie. There are plans for several
more national parks in areas of particular natural beauty or to protect the habitat of endangered
species such as the European brown bear.
1.    Air Pollution
12.   Air pollution in towns and cities is the environmental problem causing the greatest health
and economic damage in Slovenia. In Slovenia, households and district heating plants still rely
heavily on mostly domestically produced high-sulfur brown coal to provide space heat and hot
water. Since few furnaces are equipped with air pollution control devices, the burning of coal
leads to high ambient concentrations of particulate matter (PMo,, particles equal to or below 10
microns in diameter) and sulfur dioxide in local air basins during the winter months. The worst
affected cities and towns include Maribor, Zagorje, Celje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Ljubljana
(inlcuding, among others, Domzale and Kamnik), Crna, Kranj, Ptuj, Krsko, Rogaska Slatina and
Jesenice.
13.   During the heating season -- which lasts from October to April -- peak 24-hour ambient
concentrations of PM1O can reach over 250 micrograms per cubic meter, and of sulfur dioxide
over 400 micrograms per cubic meter in the most polluted towns'. These levels considerably
exceed the World Health Organization (WHO) 24-hour guidelines of 125 micrograms per cubic
meter for both PM,O and sulfur dioxide2. (Slovenia has adopted the WHO standards for its own
air quality regulations.) Furthermore, 1-hour concentrations can easily exceed 1,000 micrograms
per cubic meter compared with the WHO guideline of 350 micrograms per cubic meter. However,
since non-heating season concentrations of PM,O and sulfur dioxide are very low -- 24-hour
concentrations average about 12 micrograms per cubic meter for PM,0 and about 25 micrograms
per cubic meter for sulfur dioxide -- annual averages are not especially high. Even in the worst
polluted cities and towns, annual averages for PM,o range between 20-70 micrograms per cubic
meter, and for sulfur dioxide between 30-75 micrograms per cubic meter, compared with the
I Fine particulate pollution is caused mainly by the combustion of fossil fuels, and typically contains a mixture of
soot, and sulfate and nitrate particles. Fine particles almost certainly pose a greater threat to health than larger
particles, since they are more likely to be toxic and can be breathed deeply into the lungs.
2 These levels also exceed European Union standards, which are 250 for PM,0 and between 250 and 350 for sulfur
dioxide depending on associated levels of PM,o.



5
WHO standards of 50 micrograms per cubic meter for each. Nitrogen dioxide is not yet a
problem anywhere in Slovenia. Even in the worst-polluted cities, annual, 24-hour, and 1-hour
averages are well below levels thought to damage health, and nowhere exceed the WHO (or
European Union) guidelines3. Levels of nitrogen dioxide are likely to increase, however, as car-
ownership increases.
14.   Although annual averages are not particularly high, PM1O and sulfur dioxide in the ranges
found in Slovenia's most polluted cities and towns almost certainly cause considerable damage to
health. According to the best scientific evidence, most health damage from exposure to sulfur
dioxide is caused by brief exposures to high ambient concentrations (peak exposures), rather than
by long-term exposures to low annual means. For PMIO, both long-term and peak exposures can
damage health.
15.   Furthermore, recent epidemiological evidence has found associations between excess
mortality and exposures to PMIO at annual averages as low as 18 micrograms per cubic meter
(Dockery, et. al., 1993). These studies suggest that there may be no safe threshold levels below
which health damage does not occur and that the effects are linearily related to ambient
concentrations. The associations are strongest for inhalable particles (PM10), fine particles (equal
to or below 2.5 microns in diameter), and for sulfate particles4, and less strong for total suspended
particulates or sulfur dioxide.
16.   Annex L2  contains estimates of the reductions in mortality and morbidity that could be
expected from reducing air pollution in Maribor, one of the initial beneficiaries of the proposed
Bank loan, based on dose-response functions developed in North America and Western Europe.
17.   Point sources of air pollution. About 86 % of Slovenia's emissions of sulfur dioxioe
come from coal-fired power plants and industrial boilers. Slovenia's largest power plant, in
Sostanj, was responsible for almost half the country's total sulfur dioxide emissions in 1991.
However, emissions from this facility have been declining by 50 % since a flue gas desulfurization
unit (FGD) became operational in May 1995.
3  The European Union annual limit value for nitrogen dioxide is 200 micrograms per cubic meter. The EU has
not adopted a 24-hour or hourly standard. WHO has not suggested an annual guideline, but does have guidelines
of 150 and 400 micrograms per cubic meter for 24 hours and I hour respectively.
4  Sulfate particles are formed from sulfur dioxide. Reducing sulfur dioxide concentrations will also reduce this
damaging form of particulate matter.



6
18.   Although emissions from the Sostanj thermal power plant are still large, they do not cause
significant health damage. Because the tall stacks emit the sulfur dioxide far above the valley
floor where most people live and because the power plant supplies heat to households in the
nearby towns, air quality near the power plant is actually quite good. Concentrations of sulfur
dioxide and especially of PM1o are better than the national averages in the nearby town of Velenje.
The emissions of sulfur dioxide do damage the nearby forests, however, and contribute to long-
range acid depositions. A World Bank study estimated this damage to equal about 4 million DM
per year. However, reducing emissions from the Sostanj power plant below the 50 % reduction
already planned by installing a second FGD would cost about 17.5 million DM per year compared
to benefits of about 2 million DM (for more detail see Ayres and Dixon, 1995). Slovenia can
achieve significant health benefits, and at the same time reduce its countrywide emissions of sulfur
dioxide -- and acid depositions -- by investing instead in the replacement of polluting fuels by gas
in households and district heating plants.
19.   Two other large power plants, Ljubljana and Trbovlje, together were responsible for 13
% of total sulfur dioxide emissions in 1991. Still both power plants had reduced emissions
considerably over 1990 levels primarily by substituting imported low-sulfur coal (sulfur content
under 0.4 %) for the indigenous product (sulfur content up to 3 %). Emissions from Ljubljana
were 33 % lower in 1991 than 1990 and emissions from Trbovlje were 14 % lower.
2.    Water Pollution
20.   Nearly all Slovenia's drinking water comes from uncontaminated underground aquifers and
requires no treatment. However, in regions with intensive agricultural and livestock operations,
there is evidence that nitrates and pesticides sometimes leach into the groundwater. Levels at
most sampling points have remained below the European Union standards for drinking water.
However, concentrations appear to be increasing and there is concern that some aquifers may
become unusable for drinking water if this trend is not reversed. Industrial effluents have also
occasionally contaminated drinking water supplies. At present, neither bacteriological nor toxic
metal contamination of drinking water pose major problems.
21.   In most parts of the country there are abundant reserves of groundwater for the future.
However, there is a shortage of groundwater to serve the coastal towns, particularly during the
busy summer months. Slovenia is now exploring options to supply drinking water to the coast
from distant aquifers or to use surface water sources which must be treated.
22.   As in most countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Slovenia disposes much of its
domestic and industrial wastewaters directly into surface waters without treatment. As a result,
most of the country's rivers contain contaminated stretches downstream of municipal and
industrial sources. Slovenia's most polluted river, the Sava, flows through the most heavily



7
populated areas, collecting municipal and industrial wastewater from the country's largest and
most industrial cities. The country's cleanest river, the Soca, originates in the Julian Alps and
flows through the lightly inhabited mountain region for most of its length.
23.   While surface water contamination is not currently a priority in Slovenia, it is likely to
become so in the future as water-based recreational activities, such as boating, fishing, and
swimming, increase. There is also a concern that contaminated surface waters may seep into
underground aquifers making them unfit for drinking water.
3.    Solid Wastes
24.   Disposal of solid and hazardous wastes will likely become a priority in the future. Landfill
capacity is extremely scarce, and local resistance is making it difficult to develop new capacity
for the future. Substantial illegal and uncontrolled dumping has taken place in the past. A master
plan for collecting and disposing of municipal and hazardous solid wastes is currently being
prepared with the assistance of the European Union.
4.    Administrative and Regulatory Framework
25.   When Slovenia achieved indepedence in 1991, the Ministry of Environment and Physical
Planning (MEPP) was a small organization with a staff of only five people. Still, between 1991
and 1993 the Ministry of Environment drafted a comprehensive Environmental Protection Act and
gained Parliamentary approval for it in June 1993. The implementation of this Act is placing
severe strains on the capacity of the Ministry. The Ministry will therefore need to establish
priorities and timetables to efficiently allocate resources for developing and implementing key
regulations and other measures.
26.   The policy-making team that will be primarily responsible for this work now consists of
16 members. Nonetheless, this team is greatly over-extended and is likely to become more so as
it starts to coordinate its work with other Government ministries and as it takes on new
responsibilities, especially in the context of the country's objective of joining the European Union
within a few years. The Ministry strengthened the permanent staff of the Ministry at a senior
level by appointing a secretary-general and managers responsible for financial matters and plans
to add staff for organizational matters (covering both the operations of the Ministry and its
affiliated bodies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the Pollution Inspectorate).
27.   With an increasing number of projects under its management, including the proposed
Slovenia Environment Project, the Ministry recognizes the need to establish a Project
Implementation Team. Since the Environmental Fund of Slovenia (EcoFund) will be responsible
for identifying, appraising and implementing environmental projects, this Project Implementation



8
Team will reside within the EcoFund and strengthen all of its activities. The staff of the Team will
include specialists in project management, procurement and financial management.
28.   In the past, many responsibilities in the field of environmental protection were devolved
to municipal and district governments or were fragmented between different Ministries and
agencies. A single Environmental Protection Agency has been established to coordinate and
oversee the detailed implementation of the regulatory framework specified in the Environmental
Protection Act. Unfortunately, the merger of the component organizations which make up the
Environmental Protection Agency caused severe disruption and demoralization among its staff,
partly as a result of a clash of cultures between senior staff trained under the old system and
younger but less experienced staff who are better attuned to the new role and responsibilities of
the Agency. The Ministry has plans to (a) establish an appropriate organizational structure for
the Agency; (b) define responsibilities and modes of operation; (c) develop appropriate links with
other Ministries and local governments; and (d) recruit and train additional staff to carry out the
Agency's functions.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Introduction
29.   The proposed Project would includes two major components: (a) the Air Pollution
Abatement Component; and (b) the Geographical Information System Component.
a.    Air Pollution Abatement Component. The Air Pollution Abatement Program
(APAP) assists households and boilerhouse operators in polluted cities in Slovenia
to convert all boilerhouses and households burning polluting fuels or heating
systems (coal, wood, other solid fuels, heavy fuel oil; short: polluting fuels) to use
cleaner fuels or heating systems (natural gas, district heating, liquid petroleum gas,
low sulphur oil, heat pumps, solar energy; short: cleaner fuels). The APAP
provides loans to households and boilerhouse operators to cover 80 % of the
conversion costs. A pilot phase for the APAP was completed in Maribor, the
second largest city in Slovenia, during the autumn of 1995. Based on lessons
learnt from this pilot phase, the APAP will become a self-sustaining revolving loan
fund (similar to the successful Slovenia housing fund) that will finance similar
projects in other polluted cities in Slovenia.
b.    Geographical Informatin Systm CoQmonen. The objective of the Geographical
Information System Component (GIS) is to collect, organize, and manage
information for improved development and land-use planning, particularly in the



9
areas that are experiencing rapid development.  It would also motivate
municipalities to build local GIS centers as a part of the national GIS
infrastructure.
These components are described in detail below:
B.    Air Pollution Abatement Component (World Bank Loan of DM 30 MUlion equivalent)
1.    Background
30.   Maribor is Slovenia's second largest city, with a population of about 105,000 people living
in about 39,500 households. Although Maribor has both natural gas and district heating
distribution systems, over one-third of the households and boilerhouses burn coal or wood to
provide space heating and hot water. An additional 20 % of boilerhouses use high sulfur fuel oil
for energy. As a result, concentrations of particulates and sulfur dioxide are high during the
heating season, damaging health and the environment.
31.   Concern about local levels of air pollution prompted the Maribor City Council to adopt
regulations in 1992 designed to achieve the progressive conversion of all heating systems,
boilerhouses and households burning polluting fuels to uses of cleaner fuels. These regulations
set strict standards on smoke emissions from heating systems and boilers in heavily polluted areas
of the city, implying that household and large boilers currently burning coal, wood, or heavy fuel
oil should be converted if they were replaced or significantly modified.
32.   Since then, levels of air pollution have fallen but this has largely been the consequence of
a sequence of warm winters. The rate of conversions from polluting to cleaner fuels has been
disappointing with about 200 households a year converting from coal or wood to gas or other
cleaner fuels. Hence, the local administration and the national environmental authorities have
been exploring options for accelerating the transition to cleaner fuels.
33.   A market survey was carried out in North Maribor to investigate the costs of and possible
barriers to fuel conversion. This concluded that the technical and economic potential for
conversions5 was very high. The critical barrier to conversion was the high initial capital cost
required, for example, for connections to the gas pipeline and for the installation of gas-fired
heating equipment. (Details of the survey results are shown in Anne 11 Tabkl A3-1.3). To help
Conversion analyses often distinguish technical potential from economic potential. Technical potential is a
broader concept and includes all households that could reasonably consider converting their space heating system
to gas firing regardless of the relative cost of doing so. Economic potential is a subset of technical potential and
includes only those which are likely to convert.



10
users switch to gas, the city provided low-interest loans through a local bank for a period. This
program was successful, but the limited funds available meant that the demand for loans greatly
exceeded the supply.
34.   In 1995 the Ministry of Environment promulgated a set of national emission standards for
small boilers and heating systems similar to those which had been introduced earlier in Maribor.
In order to accelerate the rate of conversions from polluting to cleaner fuels, the Ministry has
encouraged the EcoFund to introduce a program of conversion loans covering all of the most
polluted towns and cities in the country. To assist the EcoFund in their preparations for
negotiation, consultants prepared three alternate estimates of the potential loan volumes to finance
conversions of home heating systems to cleaner fuels in the six most polluted Slovenian cities.
The three alternate methods were selected to recognize the uncertainty in the data supporting any
single method. Assuming 75 % of total loan funding from the World Bank, the alternatives would
require WB loans of DM32.1 million, DM34.9 million and DM41.8 million. Based on these
findings, the study concluded that the Ecofund could plausibly expect to use a World Bank loan
of DM30.0 million to finance conversion in six cities over the next five years.
35.   Hence, the Bank's role in this Project has been to help develop an institutional mechanism
to assist in financing conversion without relying upon interest rate subsidies. This will enable the
program to be extended to all urban areas suffering from poor air quality. In turn the availability
of finance for conversion on reasonable terms will allow the environmental authorities to introduce
stricter air pollution controls and thus to accelerate the reduction in high levels of air pollution to
which many urban residents are exposed.
2.    Objective
36.   The objective of the Air Pollution Abatement Component is to reduce ambient
concentrations of PM1o and sulfur dioxide along with the health damage associated with exposure
to air pollution. The Project is designed to achieve this objective by providing loans to
households and boilerhouse operators to convert to clearner fuels from polluting fuels. An initial
phase in Maribor to establish the mechanism for administering the loans and to observe the rate
of conversion when such loans are made available has been completed. Thus, loans under the
Project will be offered for household and boilerhouse conversions in urban areas with
unacceptable levels of air pollution.
3.    Description
37.   The proposed Project, through the Air Pollution Abatement Program (APAP), will provide
fuel conversion loans to about 6,500 households and about 65 boilerhouse operators during the
three years over which the Bank loan will be disbursed. These loans will be used to finance the



11
conversion of heating and hot water systems currently using polluting fuels to the use of cleaner
fuels. Taking account of the recycling of repayments to fund new loans, it is estimated that the
Project will finance the conversion of at least 12,000 households and 120 boilerhouses over a
period of 8 years.
38.   A pilot for the APAP was undertaken during the autumn of 1995 in order to test the
demand for conversion loans and to develop the institutional procedures for the full program.
Loans for the conversion of 193 households and 5 boilerhouses, amounting to approximately DM
1.5 million, were approved in a period of 3 months, despite the fact that the pilot occurred at the
beginning of the heating season so that many households had already made commitments for the
current year. A detailed evaluation of the pilot phase carried out in February 1996 showed that
the arrangements for handling loan applications and disbursements are satisfactory, though some
minor adjustments have been proposed and agreed. The EcoFund is now making the necessary
operational arrangements to extend the APAP to all of the urban areas to be covered by the
Project.
39.   The Air Pollution Abatement Program will operate as follows:
(a)   The Slovene EcoFund has established and will manage the Air Pollution Abatement
Program (APAP) drawing upon its own resources and the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Eligible cities would include those suffering from serious air pollution as listed below --
Annex J1A provides details on ambient air quality for 1990-95 in these towns and cities.
The list of eligible towns and cities will be reviewed in the course of a mid-term evaluation
of the component 12 months after the Project becomes effective. The following air basins
would be included in the APAP: Maribor, Zagorje, Celje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Ljubljana
(inlcuding, among others, Domzale and Kamnik), Crna, Kranj, Ptuj, Krsko, Rogaska
Slatina and Jesenice.
(b)   The EcoFund has sub-contracted the loan administration (processing of loan applications
for heating conversions, loan disbursement, and the administration of loan repayments) to
a commercial bank (financial agent). Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (NKBM) was selected
as the financial agent following a competitive procedure acceptable to the Bank. This
financial agent will be paid according to a fixed schedule of fees6. The EcoFund has
prepared an operating manual for the selected bank covering, inter alia, the eligibiity
of households and boilerhouse operators for sub-loans under the APAP, terms and
conditions of loan repayment, penalties for late payment, and the handling of
6   The Slovene Housing Fund, which makes loans to households acquiring their apartments under the privatization
program, provides a successful model for the operation of the APAP. Details of the schedule of fees are given
in Annex Table A4.1.



12
defaults. This document is acceptable to the Bank. The Financial Administration
Agreement with the financial agent covered the pilot program already completed in
the autumn of 1995 and has been revised to cover the whole Program. The
performance of the financial agent will be assessed during the mid-term review. If this
performance is judged to have been unsatisfactory, then a new agent will be selected to
handle the remainder of the program on the basis of a competitive procedure acceptable
to the Bank. The auditors of the EcoFund will carry out a regular audit of the financial
position of the loan fund. The auditors of the financial agent will also carry out a regular
audit of the performance of the financial agent in processing loan applications and
administering repayments.
(c)   Sub-borrowers may borrow up to 80 % of the required conversion costs. Sub-loans will
be denominated in DM and loan accounts maintained in DM but all transactions will be
in the Slovenian Tolar equivalent of the relevant DM amount at the NKBM buying rate
prevailing on the day of the transaction. The sub-borrowers will, thus, carry the foreign
exchange risk on World Bank funds. This is normal practice in Slovenia where DM loans
for the purchase of cars and durables are a standard feature of bank lending to households.
(d)   Sub-loans will initially carry a DM interest rate of R+2 %, where R is the variable,
LIBOR-based interest rate charged by the Bank on DM single currency loans, and 2
percentage points is the initial interest margin to cover the fees and other expenses
incurred by the EcoFund. For the purposes of the analysis in this paper, the World Bank
LIBOR-based interest rate (R) has been taken as 4.75 %. The interest rate paid by sub-
borrowers will be adjusted every 6 months so that it reflects the interest rate R charged by
the World Bank for the current 6 month period. There are no subsidies implicit in the
design or operation of the APAP. With a fixed interest margin of about 2% over its cost
of funds, the financial projections for the APAP suggest that the EcoFund would generate
a substantial net surplus on income account over the life of the project. However, a larger
interest margin is required initially to cover the start-up costs of the APAP, to reduce the
period during which there is a deficit on income account, and to provide reserves against
unforeseen costs and/or losses. It has been agreed that the interest margin will be
reviewed annually and that it will be adjusted downwards to ensure that the net surplus on
income account over the life of the APAP does not exceed DM 1 million.
(e)   The term of the sub-loans will depend on the nature of the conversion. Sub-loans for
boilerhouse conversions will have a term of up to 10 years. Loans to households will have
a maximum term of up to 6 years, though sub-borrowers may chose to repay their loans
over a shorter period if they wish. The sub-loan conditions have been designed so that
monthly payments should not amount to more than 5 % of the after-tax monthly income of
a household with two wage-earners -- the typical situation. These terms would be more
attractive than those offered by Slovene banks, since Slovene banks currently offer loans
for home improvements at a real interest rate of about 14 % (in SIT) for a maximum of



13
three years.
(f)    All sub-loans will be insured or guaranteed against default either by an insurance company
in the case of household loans or by municipalities (or other guarantors or insurance in
accordance with normal banking practice) in the case of boilerhouse loans. Thus, the
EcoFund, through the APAP, is taking no credit risk and the default rate on loans is
assumed to be zero -- again this follows the practice adopted by the Slovene Housing
Fund. The contract with the financial agent specifies the actions to be taken by the agent
in respect of delinquent accounts before the sub-loan is declared in default and the
insurance or guarantee is invoked. The cost of undertaking these steps ensures that the
financial agent has an incentive to bring delinquent accounts up to date as rapidly as
possible. Further, it provides an incentive for the agent to collect monthly payments via
payroll deduction. This is the standard method of servicing housing and consumer loans
in Slovenia and the mechanisms are well established and operates efficiently.
(g)   Household sub-borrowers will be responsible for paying the sub-loan insurance fee -- set
at 1.84 % of the sub-loan value for loan terms up to 3 years and 2.5 % of the sub-loan
value for loan terms of 3-6 years under the present insurance agreement -- to the insurance
company through the financial agent when their sub-loan is approved. In addition, they
will pay a one-time sub-loan origination fee of DM 75 (about 1.5% of the average sub-
loan value) to the financial agent. Boilerhouse operators will pay a onetime sub-loan
origination fee of DM 150 to the financial agent. In addition, they will be responsible for
the cost of providing a satisfactory guarantee or sub-loan insurance.
(h)   Sub-borrowers will pay to the financial agent annual sub-loan administration fees of DM
55 for household conversion sub-loans and DM 115 for boilerhouse conversion sub-loans.
(i)    Taking account of sub-loan origination and insurance/guarantee fees the total annualized
cost of the fuel conversion sub-loans to households would be equivalent to an interest rate
of 7-8 % per year, depending upon the sub-loan term chosen by the sub-borrower.
(j)    Based on the results of the market survey in Maribor and cost estimates prepared by
consultants it has been assumed that the average sub-loan size over the 4 years of the
project will be DM 5,000 for household conversion sub-loans and DM 120,000 for
boilerhouse conversion sub-loans. These estimates are averages over the total sub-loan
portfolio since conversion costs differ substantially according to the type of fuel currently
used, the fuel chosen for the new installation, and the size of the boiler required -- see
Annex i1L Tabk 3A14. They allow for a low rate of inflation (2-3 % p.a.) in DM over
the period of the project.
(k)   The proceeds of the Bank loan in support of the Air Pollution Abatement Program will be



14
drawn down over a period of 4 years to finance 75 % of funds lent under the program.
The EcoFund will finance the remaining 25 % of funds lent from its own resources. In
preparing the financial analysis it has been assumed that the interest rate charged on the
funds provided by the EcoFund will be the same as that charged on the Bank loan. These
funds will be repaid in 10 equal installments starting after the lending program ends, i.e.
in year 9.  As specified in the agreement with the financial agent, any reserves
accumulated by the APAP -- whether on capital or income account -- will earn an interest
rate equal to the DM LIBOR rate. The EcoFund has also agreed to provide working
capital of DM 500,000 to finance the deficit on income account that will arise in the early
years of the Program. This float will be repaid as soon as the APAP has established
adequate reserves on its income account.
40.   The results of surveys and of the pilot in Maribor have shown that households and
boilerhouse operators are likely to respond strongly to the APAP loan program. The sub-loan
terms have been structured so that the typical household borrower would have to make a down
payment of the equivalent of about DM 1,250 and pay about DM 60 per month over a period of
6 years to service an APAP loan which covers 80% of the conversion costs. In the market
surveys carried out in Maribor during Project preparation, households were asked the maximum
they would be willing to pay for a down payment and per month for the costs of converting to a
cleaner fuel. About 60 % of households indicated they would be willing to pay a maximum of
DM 1,000 for a down payment and about DM 110 as a monthly payment. The slightly higher
down payment is offset by the lower monthly payment over a period of only 6 years, so that it is
reasonable to assume that the response to the loans will be at least as high as that indicated by the
survey. The experience of the Maribor Gas Company, the Maribor District Heating Company,
and a local loan program organized in Celje support this conclusion. Hence, in preparing the
economic and financial analysis of the program it has been assumed that at least 50 % of the
households eligible to obtain conversion loans will actually do so within a period of 4 years.
Since the municipalities eligible for APAP sub-loans have a total population of over 750,000, the
EcoFund considers that the demand for sub-loans will exhaust the funds available within a period
of 3 years.
41.   The EcoFund, working with municipal authorities in the towns and cities covered by the
program, will be responsible for developing and carrying out a public information and marketing
campaign designed to encourage potential gas or district heating users to convert. This would
provide information on the costs of alternative heating systems, the environmental benefits of
using cleaner fuels, and the availability of loans to finance heating conversion. The costs of this
campaign would be met out of the budget set aside for the APAP's operating expenses and
financed initially by the working capital provided by the EcoFund.



15
C.    Geographical Information System Component (World Bank Loan of DM4.6 Million
equivalent)
1.    Background
42.   In 1991, the Government of Slovenia decided to establish and develop  a national
Geographical Information Center (GIC) within the MEPP to manage a Geographical Information
System (GIS). The GIS will comprise existing and new databases, containing basic geographic,
geological, topographic, economic and land ownership information and other databases-- the key
information to be used for future land-use planning in the country. The GIS component of the
proposed Project will assist in developing the GIC. The Project will focus primarily on priority
areas in the Koper, Maribor and Ljubljana regions, which are the regions in Slovenia undergoing
the most rapid development. The Project will also partially support other municipalities, which
are in parallel starting to develop geoinformation infrastructure and are in the context of the
national geoinformation infrastructure.  The GIS will be owned by the Government, and
administered by the GIC. The GIC will implement, operate and control the GIS computer
network. The GIC will provide fee-based services to all users.
2.    Objectives
43.   The main objective of the GIS component of the Project is to collect, organize, and manage
information for development and land-use planning, particularly in areas of Slovenia that are
experiencing rapid development. The project will provide hardware and software, technical
assistance, consultant services and training. The project will develop standards for establishing
data sets of basic geometry, land cadastre and other necessary data sets. The project will develop
the GIC of MEPP as a metadatabase server and standardized procedures of delivering information
and data to users. The project will establish procedures of use of these data in the field of land
use planning and environment protection. The information organized and managed by the GIC
would be used, inter alia, to:
a.    support, monitor and enforce the "Environmental Protection Act" passed in June
1994, and the associated environmental impact regulatory policies and procedures;
b.    support the current and the pending "Spatial Planning and Construction Building
Act" and the associated environmental/construction policies and procedures;
c.    facilitate domestic and international investments in Slovenia by making the spatial
planning and development approval processes quicker, more transparent, and less
arbitrary;
d.    increase reliability, acceptance and creditability of land cadastres;



16
e.    facilitate the enforcement of regulatory processes and procedures;
f.    help develop and enforce a system of taxation or royalty and of the collection or
leasing for the use of natural resources and properties.
3.    Description
44.  The GIS component of the Project includes:
a.    The establishment of a central Geographic Information Center (GIC) in Ljubljana.
The GIC will establish a computer supported metadatabase system to be able to
distribute information on spatial databases to users. The GIC will contain a scalable
server (UNIX type), computer hardware and software for data capturing and
editing, and network systems to support high speed communications with other
regions of Slovenia (ethernet routers and modems).
b.    The establishment of a market development group to promote the use of the GIS,
to provide training (in the use of GIS), to raise market awarness on exchange of data
and to provide assistance to regional administrations, government agencies and
departments, and domestic and foreign industrial, commercial and service users.
c.    The establishment of formal standards (in line with international standards) on data
collection, use and maintenance of data and a quality assurance compliance group
to ensure that the information system operates in accordance with international
standards for data communication, data processing, etc.
d.    The establishment of a local training center, in cooperation with an experienced
international geomatics organization, with the authority to grant certifications in GIS
that are internationally recognized. The training center will operate in cooperation
with local universities. The purpose of the training center is to develop local
expertise in the operation of GIS.
45.  Project Scope. The MEPP has identified three priority areas and, within those areas,
development "islands," which comprise the areas in Slovenia expected to be under the greatest
development pressure in the future. During its first phase, the GIS will cover only the
development "islands." The priority areas are:
a.    Koper area. This coastal area is expected to experience rapid growth over the
next decades as the planned highway between Koper and Ljubljana is completed,
and as foreign investment flows into the duty-free zones created around the city.
The Koper authorities have already established a GIS for the region and have



17
gained experience in the technical, marketing, financial, and data collection areas
of GIS. About 60 % of the data for this region has already been collected,
processed, and entered into the database. Proceeds from the proposed loan will be
used to complete this work and to integrate it into an interactive graphic GIS
database system.
b.    Maribor and Ljubljana areas, selected because these two cities are the two largest
urban and industrial areas in Slovenia.
c.    Other municipalities like Novo Mesto, Nova Gorica and Kranj are financing
similar projects within the strategy of National Geoinformation Infrastructure
(NGII). GIC will support them by partially investing in the communication
network and also in hardware and software and databases to speed up the process
and to spread the NGII. MEPP funds will be used in these other municipalities.
46.  These priority areas comprise about 40 % of the land area in Slovenia. Tie development
"islands" cover about 10 % of the priority areas or about 4 % of the territory of S!ovenia. The
cost of covering all the priority areas will be much higher, but would not provide significantly
higher benefits. It is expected that the municipalities included in the project will invest additional
funds to speed up the use of the GIS.
D.   Project Costs
47.  The total cost of the Environment Project is estimated at about DM 55.4 million, including
taxes and duties. No physical or price contingencies have been included for the APA component
since this will operate as a line of credit, but inflation has been allowed for, in estimating the
average conversion costs and loans for household and boilerhouse conversions as described in
paragraph 390). For the GIS compoment, the total project cost of DM 5.4 include physical
contingencies (of 3%) and price contingencies (of 10% of the local base cost and 2% of the
foreign exchange cost). The foreign exchange component is estimated at about DM 34.6 million,
including contingencies, or about 62% of the Project cost. (For detailed cost estimates, see
Annex L.) The total Project cost includes the following:
(a)   APA Component. The Project cost estimates include approximately 6,500 sub-
projects to households of an average size of DM 6,250 each and about 65 sub-
projects of boilerhouse operators of an average size of DM 150,000 each. The
funds provided by the EcoFund would cover for the costs of labor, material,
equipment and small associated civil works for the conversions.
(b)   GIS Component.  The Project cost estimates include the costs of computer



18
hardware and software for expanding and upgrading the Slovene Geographical
Information System, consulting services for collecting and inputting data, training
of the MEPP staff in GIS operations, and consultant services, including both
international and national consultants to assist the GIS staff of MEPP in
information collection, management and decision making. It is estimated that the
GIS Component would cost about DM5.4 million of which about DM4.6 million
would be covered by the World Bank loan. Funds from the World Bank loan
would cover the costs of (i) foreign consulting services required for management
of the projects and in the field of standardization, data collection and strategic
decision making, (ii) local consulting services required for detailed definition and
development of standards and procedures, (iii) data collection, (iv) software and
hardware, and (v) training.
E. Project Financing
48.  The proposed Bank loans of a total of DM 34.6 million will finance 60 % jf the total cost
of APA Component, and about 84% of the total cost of GIS Component. For the APA
Component, the beneficiaries would provide 20 % of the conversion cost as owner equity; the
EcoFund would contribute 25 % of the debt financing and the World bank loan would be used
for 75 % of the debt financing. The MEPP would finance 16% of the GIS Component (see
Annex 3.2 for details).
F.   Environmental Impact
49.  The Project would result in improved air quality in Maribor and other polluted cities and
reduced damage to health of their inhabitants. A safety audit has been carried out of the natural
gas utilities in Maribor and other towns to ensure that their operational procedures and safety
standards are satisfactory. This audit found these were at least as good as, and in some cases
more stringent than the standards in West European countries. The natural gas companies will
work closely with households and boilerhouse operators to assure that gas appliances are installed
and operated safely and that gas leaks or other problems are attended to by professionals rapidly
and effectively. With regard to Bank Guidelines, the project has been classified as a Category
C Project.



19
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   The Borrowers and Beneficiaries
1.    The APA Component
50.  The borrower of the World Bank loan for the APA component would be the Environmental
Fund of Slovenia (EcoFund). A Project Implementation Team (PIT), within the EcoFund, would
be responsible for administering the APAP.
51.  Introduction. The EcoFund was founded on the day of enactment of the Environmental
Protection Act (July 2, 1993) and its operation was formally defined under Statutes passed by the
Slovenian Government based on article 86 of the above Act on July 25, 1994. These Statutes
are the basis for the Fund's existence and outline its objectives, a description of the organization,
operations, and financial issues. The Fund is designed as a legally and administratively
independent institution. It has been created by and under the direction of the Ministry of
Environment and Physical Planning that gives continued policy guidance for the Fund's
operations. An Advisory Committee of the Parliament serves to review the Fund's activities.
52.  Operations of the EcoFund. Two main areas of Fund operations are (i) the provision of
loans to environmental investments at low interest rates that cover the Fund's operating costs but
don't generate profits (basic area of operation); and (ii) activities the Fund carries out on behalf
of others that are expected to generate profits (financial intermediation). Basic Fund operations
are guided by the environmental priorities of the MEPP. According to the Statutes of the Fund,
credits will be concentrated on state and municipal environmental services, and -wfllbe provided
directly from the Fund and secured by state and municipal guarantees. Internally the EcoFund
is governed by a Board of Directors and a Director under whom there will be three principal
areas: Project Preparation, Project Implementation and Finance.  Expert consultants in
accounting and environment will be utilized in the early stages of the EcoFund before
determining if full time assistance is required. Local commercial banking institutions will
administer the EcoFund's loans.  They will process the borrowers' applications, loan
disbursements and repayments.
53. Financial Status of the EcoFund. The EcoFund was capitalized by initial share capital
in the amount of SIT 10 million (US$ 86,000, DM 129,000); and the portfolio of loans
previously managed by the MEPP. Currently, the EcoFund capital is estimated at SIT 2,032
million (US$ 16.8 million, DM 25.2 million). The following table shows the balance sheet of
the EcoFund as of December 31, 1994.



20
Rectified Balance Sheet as at 31 December 1994
Thousand SIT         DM        |        US$
ASSETS                                   2,515,914      31,183,862.17        20,789,241.44
Cash on hand and in banks                  25,566         316,881.50           211,254.33
Government bonds and other securities      84,153        1,043,046.60          695,364.40
Loans to banks                            131,601        1,631,147.74         1,087,431.82
Loans to others                          2,244,021      27,813,844.81        18,542,563.20
Tangible fixed assets                      21,502         266,509.66           177,673.10
Other Assets                                9,071          112,431.82           74,954.54
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                  2,515,914      31,183,862.17        20,789,241.44
Other liabilities                           4,980          61,725.33            41,150.22
Long-term provisions                      478,960        5,936,539.41        3,957,692.94
Capital                                  2,031,888      25,184,531.48        16,789,687.65
Current net profit                             86            1,065.93              710.62
54.  In 1995, additional outstanding receivables from loans in the amount of 1,177 million SIT
according to paragraph 4 of article 108 of the Environmental Protection Law were transferred
to the Fund. Additional assets of 35 million SIT from special taxes for unlawful land use and
708 million SIT from proceeds under the privatization law were obtained by the Fund. In total,
the EcoFund received 1,920 million SIT (around US$ 16 million or DM 23 million) in 1995.
On its annual meeting in 1996, the Board of Directors of the Fund will make a decision on the
allocation of this money.
55.   Presently, all shares are held by the Republic of Slovenia, however, other parties can gain
ownership up to 33 % of the capital by buying new shares (the new shares don't come with the
right to manage the EcoFund). The EcoFund has received additional substantial commitments
(by, fo. example, the Environmental Protection Act) that could increase substantially the capital
base of the fund before 1998, according the Board of Directors of the Fund. This money is
anticipated to come mainly from proceeds from privatization, retroactive fees on "illegal"
construction, concessions for waste management services and the state budget.
56.  Beneficiaries. The beneficiaries of the Air Pollution Abatement Component of the Project
would be households and boilerhouse operators or operators (among them also institutions like
schools, hospitals and companies), who receive loans under the APAP to convert from polluting
fuels to cleaner fuels. These households and boilerhouse operators would benefit directly from
a reduction in their heating costs, including the time and inconvenience involved in operating
coal and wood fired facilities. All residents of polluted cities -- including those not taking loans
-- will benefit from improvements in ambient air quality.



21
2.    The GIS Component
57.  The borrower would be the Republic of Slovenia through Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning (MEPP). Beneficiaries would be the MEPP and the towns and regions
involved in the GIS process.
B.   The World Bank Loans
58.  The Bank loans totaling DM 34.6 million would be made to (i) the EcoFund for the APA
Component (DM30 million) with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and to (ii) the
Republic of Slovenia, represented by the MEPP for the GIS Component (DM 4.6 million).
59. The World Bank loans will be London Inter-Bank Rate (LIBOR)-based single currency
loans denominated in DM with a maturity of 15 years with 5 years grace period for level
repayment of principal. The lending rate is reset every six month and consist of a Base Rate and
a Total Spread. This is announced by the Bank in January and July each year, and will apply to
all debt service (of such a Single Currency Loan) periods commencing in the semester in which
it is announced. The Repayment dates for single currency loans are the 15th day of
December and June for the APA Component and the 15th day of August and February for
the GIC Component.
C. Management and Implementation
60.   The Project would be implemented over a five-year period (1996 to 2000). The EcoFund
would have overall responsibility for implementing the APA Component. The MEPP through
GIC would implement the GIS Component.  The EcoFund has established a Project
Implementation Team (PIT) which consists of the senior EcoFund staff with substantial
experience in Project implementation, including Bank-financed projects. The Director of the
EcoFund would be responsible, as Project Director, for the implementation of the APA
Component. He would be assisted by three assistant directors of the EcoFund, who would be
responsible for supervising the financial agent (para 39 (b)) subcontracted to handle sub-loan
administration; procurement; financial matters and general administration. A small PIT in the
MEPP would be responsible for the implementation of the GIS Component. During
negotiations, the EcoFund and the MEPP have confirmed that, as conditions of effectiveness
of the World Bank loans, they will strengthen their respective PIT and will have appointed
staff for the PITs whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the Bank.
61.   The Project would require about 41 weeks of Bank supervision during the four years of
implementation.



22
D.   Procurement
62.   The procurement arrangements are shown in Table 1.5 of the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP)(Anne  j2).  Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines dated January 1995, and Consultant Guidelines dated August 1981. A
component-by-component summary of the procurement arrangements is given below:
(a)   Air Pollution Abatement Component. During the life of the Project, the EcoFund
would make approximately 6,500 sub-loans to households and 65 sub-loans to
boilerhouse operators from the proceeds of the World Bank loan. The average
size of the sub-loans to households would be DM 5,000 each and to boilerhouse
operators DM 120,000 each covering labor, material and equipment. The Bank
has established that the labor, material and equipment needed for the conversion
are available from several sources in Slovenia and that there is sufficient
competition among suppliers. The Bank has also established that households
normally compare prices from several sources and take into account the quality
and performance of equipment. Consequently, the households would be allowed
to procure the necessary labor, equipment and material using these practices.
Private operators of boilerhouses follow established commercial practices for
purchases. These commercial practices involve obtaining quotations from several
suppliers and purchasing the equipment on the basis of its price and performance.
Public operators of boilerhouses are subject to and would follow the tendering
procedure provided for in the Public Procurement Decree of May 1993. The
financial agent, that would, together with the EcoFund, verify that the prices
obtained both by the households and the boilerhouse operators reflect current
market prices.
(b)   Geographical Information System Component. For the GIS Component, the
MEPP would procure computer hardware and software using the following
procurement methods: International Shopping (2 packages at a total estimated cost
of about DM 300,000); Direct Contracting because of upgrading and compatibility
(4 packages at a total estimated cost of about DM 300,000); consultant services
including six assignments, at an estimated cost of DM 4.7 million; and funds of
the MEPP of DM 500.000 to support other municipalities. The MEPP, which has
nominated a GIS expert to be the component manager, would nominate a small
PIT, supported by Ministry of Finance and hired consultants, to perform
procurement activities for this component.
E.   Disbursements
63.   The World Bank loan for the proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period



23
of five years (1996 - 2000). This is possible because of the strong implementation capacity of
the EcoFund, including the PIT and the financial agent (FA). The Project completion date would
be December 31, 2000 and the closing date would be June 30, 2001. A summary of the
disbursement plan is included as Table 1.6 of the PIP. A detailed disbursement plan is also
included in the PIP (Annex  2).
64.   To facilitate timely project implementation, the EcoFund would establish, maintain and
operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in Deutsche Mark. During
the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to DM
4 million. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level
of DM 5 million, the initial allocation my be increased up to the authorized allocation of DM 6
million by submitting the relevant application for withdrawal. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well
as other appropriate supporting documents.
65.   Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for goods and
services up to DM 400,000 equivalent per sub-loan for which detailed documents evidencing
expenditures will be reviewed and kept by PIT and made available for the required audit as well
as to Bank supervision missions.
F.   Auditing
66.   Separate accounts, maintained by the financial agent on behalf of the EcoFund for the
APA component and by the Ministry of Finance for the GIS component, will be used to record
all Project expenditures from local and foreign funds. These accounts, including the SOEs as
well as the Special Account will be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The auditors' reports would be received in the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year. In this context, the EcoFund will require the financial agent to carry out an audit
of the APAP-related activities. This information will be part of the Annual Audit Report. In
addition, the EcoFund will have its accounts audited annually within 6 months after the
completion of each fiscal year by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank and transmit
the results of the audit to the Bank. The arrangements for accounting and auditing have
been agreed upon during negotiations (details are discussed in the PIP in Annex L2).
G.   Monitoring and Reporting
67.   The PIT will establish monitoring procedures in collaboration with the financial agent for
the APA Component and a small PIT in the MEPP will do the same for the GIS Component.
These monitoring procedures were prepared and tested in the Maribor pilot phase and have been
submitted to the Bank as the Operational Manual for review. The PIT will also prepare semi-
annual descriptive and financial reports on each Project component including objectives and



24
activities (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). These progress reports will be based
on similar semi-annual reports from the financial agent for The APA Component and the MEPP
for the GIS Component. Annual reporting will include a three-year-rolling financial forecast with
projected income statements, balance sheets and fund-flow statements for the EcoFund
operations. A mid-term review of the Project will be carried out by January/February 1998.
The PIP shows the detailed plan for Project reporting and annual supervision. Annex 3 3 shows
a draft list of Monitoring indicators and forecasts which have been agreed upon during
negotiations.
H.   Status of Project Preparation
68.   The pilot phase of the Air Pollution Abatement Program has been successfully completed
and its results used to update the financial projections for the program and the economic analysis
of its costs and benefits. The review of the pilot phase confirmed that the potential demand for
sub-loans is such that about 6,500 household heating systems and about 65 boilerhouses will be
converted during the first 3-4 years of the APAP. A financial agent, satisfactory to the Bank and
in good standing with the Bank of Slovenia, has been appointed to ensure sound financial
management and the timely flow of funds to and from the beneficiaries. For the GIS Component,
decisions on the type of GIS technology to be used and the consultant assignments needed have
been made, and procurement documents (especially technical specifications) are under
preparation. Implementation responsibilities have been defined and the implementation staff are
in place. The PIP includes a detailed description of the project implementation responsibilities.
L.    Financial Aspects of the Air Pollution Abatement Program
69.   A financial analysis of the APAP has been carried out for an eight-year loan program, for
the years 1996-2003. The volume of lending in each year is determined partly by the anticipated
demand for sub-loans and partly on the amounts of funds available from repayments once the
World Bank loan has been fully disbursed. The World Bank loan (DM 30 million) will
supplement the EcoFund's own resources of DM 10 million. Thus, until the Bank loan is fully
disbursed, the lending program is financed 75% from the Bank loan and 25% (DM 10 million)
from the EcoFund. The analysis further assumes that the APAP is wound up as soon as the loans
that it has extended and those that it has received are repaid. The detailed financial projections
are shown in Annex 42 Talek A4-2.2.
70.   For simplicity, the financial analysis has been carried out on a semi-annual basis by
assuming that loan and other disbursements occur at the end of the 6 month period in which they
are booked. The analysis shows that except for temporary shortfalls (para 71) the APAP can
easily cover operating expenses and other costs with an interest margin of 2 % per annum.
71.   The financial analysis projects capital reserves and accumulated income balances for the



25
APAP as if the program were to be operated as a completely independent entity. The analysis
indicates that the program will have ample reserves to meet repayment obligations on the World
Bank and EcoFund loans. In only two years -- years 4 and 5 -- does the total level of reserves
at the end of the year fall below the loan service and repayment obligations for the following
year. Since the bulk of sub-loans have a short loan period, annual cash flow from loan
repayments is high relative to loan service and repayment obligations. The consequence is that
the level of reserves relative to loan service and repayment obligations can easily be maintained
by making appropriate adjustments to the volume of new lending in any year. Thus, subject to
the provisions in paragraph 72 below, the APAP should increase the liquidity of the EcoFund
and will not pose any threat to its financial stability.
72.   For the first 2 or 3 years of its operations, the APAP might have an accumulated loss on
its pro-forma income account. Under the scenario of stable interest rates analysed in the main
financial projections this accumulated loss will never exceed DM 300,000. However, there is
a very small risk of a temporary mismatch between borrowing and lending rates if interest rates
rise very suddenly because of the timing of the Bank's notification of its LIBOR-based interest
rate for the current 6 month period. This takes place 15 days after the beginning of the period
based on the LIBOR rate on the first day of the period. Administratively, the financial agent may
require up to 15 days to recalculate loan repayments, notify sub-borrowers of the sums payable,
and to arrange for the appropriate payroll deduction in the case of household borrowers. Under
the worst case scenario this will involve a 1 month delay in adjusting the payments made by sub-
borrowers and even this can be avoided by making a provisional adjustment in the lending rate
which will be corrected one month later once the true rate for the period has been fixed. Simple
experiments with the financial model have indicated that financing of up to DM 0.5 million will
provide ample reserves to cover the accumulated deficit on income account and any possible
income shortfall arising from a brief mismatch of borrowing and lending rates. The EcoFund
has undertaken to make available financing of DM 0.5 million to cover the accumulated loss on
income account for the Air Pollution Abatement Program. This amount represents about 2 % of
EcoFund's equity and can easily be accommodated.
73.   Retroactive rmfancing will be available in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of DM 3,000,000, for Subloans under the APA-Program before March 7, 1996, but
after July 1, 1995.



26
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    APA Component: Economic Analysis and Benefits
74.   In the towns and cities average ambient concentrations of particulates and sulfur dioxide
during the heating season exceed those during the non-heating season by at least 20 micrograms
per cubic meter and the differential exceeds 40 micrograms per cubic meter for the most heavily
polluted areas. Hence, if all of the units burning polluting fuels are converted to cleaner fuels,
average annual concentrations should decline by at least 10 micrograms per cubic meter and the
decline may be as high as 20 micrograms per cubic meter in some areas. This will benefit all
of those living in the air basins affected by the emissions of smoke and sulfur dioxide that will
be eliminated as a result of the project. The likelihood that they will suffer from occasional or
chronic respiratory diseases induced or exacerbated by exposure to particulates and sulfur dioxide
will be greatly reduced. Households and boilerhouse operators which convert their heating
systems will also benefit from improvements in the efficiency and quality of service of their
heating systems as well as from reductions in the time and effort required to operate them.
75.   The range of alternative approaches to reducing air pollution in urban centers in Slovenia
is limited. Some towns have encouraged or required coal distributors to switch to low sulfur coal
for use in households, small boilers and district heating plants -- for example, Trbovlje. This
has resulted in a substantial decline in average sulfur dioxide levels, but has had little or no
impact on particulate levels, which are the main source of health damage. It might be possible
to substitute smokeless solid fuels (based on anthracite) for local coal or wood, but this will
involve the development of new distribution or production arrangements since smokeless solid
fuels are not currently available in Slovenia. In any case, there is a clear preference for heating
systems using cleaner fuels among households and those responsible for small boilers, as they
eliminate the dirt and inconvenience associated with handling solid fuels, and are economically
and financially attractive.
76.   The economic analysis of the Project focuses on its impact in Maribor because the
necessary data required to carry out a full assessment of the costs and benefits were only
available for this city. However, it is reasonable to conclude that the results of this analysis are
representative of the net benefits of the Project over all of the towns and cities covered, as will
be explained below. The estimation of the environmental benefits focuses on the contribution
of lower pollution to the health of the population of Maribor. Reducing ambient exposure to
particulates and sulfur dioxide will lower the incidence of respiratory and other diseases and
reduce mortality associated with chronic conditions that are provoked or exacerbated by air
pollution. Taking account of these health benefits of reducing pollution implies that the Project
has a very high rate of return.



27
77.   In addition to the impact of the project on health, the reduction in air polhltion will bring
other benefits (not quantified or included in the economic analysis) such as lower costs of
maintenance for buildings and equipment, improvements in the attractiveness of the town for both
visitors and local residents, and less damage to vulnerable ecosystems including forests. There
is ample evidence that people are willing to pay significant sums (relative to their income) in
order to enjoy the benefits of greater visibility and cleanliness associated with lower air pollution
quite independently of any expected health benefits. Hence, the rates of return reported for the
Project are very much a lower bound on the true rates of return taking account of all of the
environmental benefits.
78.   Using dose-response functions developed in North America and Western Europe and
summarized by Bart Ostro in Estimating the Health Benefits of Air Pollutants, health benefits
from reducing annual ambient concentrations by 10-20 micrograms per cubic meter should be
between 10-20 million DM per year (see Annex 2-.Iablk A2-1. 1). Epidemiological evidence
increasingly suggests that health impacts due to exposure to PM,o occur at ambient levels well
below current international standards and are approximately linear with exposure levels (see
Dockery, et. al., 1993). The evidence is less clear for sulfur dioxide. For the purposes of the
Program analysis, we have assumed that no threshold levels exist for either PM1O or sulfur
dioxide. If threshold levels exist for sulfur dioxide, then the health benefits from the Project will
be smaller.
79.   Even without the health benefits, there will be significant benefits from the conversion
to cleaner fuels. The fuel, operating and capital costs of alternative systems are substantially
higher for coal and wood than for natural gas, LPG, or district heat (see Annex  -1 Tabk 3A14).
As a result !ouseholds and boilerhouse operators have been steadily converting their systems
from coal ol wood to these fuels whenever major maintenance expenditures or replacement are
required (even before the introduction of the air quality regulations), provided that they have
access to the networks. Thus, the Project will have the effect of accelerating this conversion
process, bringing forward both the economic and the environmental benefits of conversion. The
combination of environmental benefits and savings on current running costs are more than
sufficient to justify an accelerated program of conversion although this means that many heating
systems will be converted before they are due for replacement.
80.   The following presents the impact of the Project on different groups in schematic form:



28
Groups                            Costs                   Benefits
Maribor Gas Company          Network expansion    Revenues from gas/heat sales
Maribor District Heating     Network 0 & M
Wholesale gas
Air Pollution Abatement      Conversion costs      Borrower down payments
Administrative costs   Loan repayments
Households/Boilerhouse       Down payments         Savings on alternative
Loan payments          (capital, fuel, 0 & M, time)
Fuel charges          Consumer surplus
Gas heating 0 & M
Residents of Maribor                               Reduced mortality and
Cleanliness and amenity *
*     These benefits are positive and substantial, but no attempt has been made to estimate them
81.   Since different weights have not been attached to costs or benefits accruing to different
agents, it is possible to cancel out items which occur on both the cost and the benefit side. As
a result, the presentation of costs and benefits is as follows:
Costs                           Benefits
Network expansion               Savings on alternative heating
Network 0 & M                   (fuel, 0 & M, time costs)
Gas/heat purchases              Consumer surplus
Conversion costs                Reduced mortality and morbidity
Administrative costs            Cleanliness and amenity benefits
Heating system 0 & M
In this schematic presentation, the consumer surplus is the conventional benefit triangle arising
because the full cost of providing a standard level of heating by gas or district heat is less than
the full cost of the same level of heating provided by an alternative fuel'.
82.   For the reasons give above, the detailed economic analysis of the program has been
carried out for Maribor. The economic rate of return excluding health benefits on the program
will be similar in other urban areas where the program will operate. The magnitude of the health
7  In fact, boilerhouses operating heavy fuel oil systems have lower costs than gas systems, so that in this case there
is a loss of consumer surplus rather than a benefit.



29
benefits is proportional to (a) the population of the town or city where the conversions occur, and
(b) the impact of the program on levels of air pollution in the town or city. Smaller towns --
such as Hrastnik, Trbolvje, and Zagorje -- tend to have worse air pollution that is strongly linked
to emissions from residential heating, so the smaller population is partly offset by the larger
impact of the program on average levels of exposure. Rough calculations suggest that the health
benefits are significant for these smaller towns but that the overall economic rates of return fall
in the range 15-25%. On the other hand, the overall economic rate of return for a lending
program in Ljubljana (with a population of 350,000) will be substantially higher than that for
Maribor. It is not possible to compute a sensible average rate of return for the project since this
will depend on the take-up rate for loans in different towns and cities. However, Ljubljana is
likely to account for a large share of loans, so that it is reasonable to conclude that the ultimate
economic rate of return on the Project will be at least as large as that for Maribor.
83.   The anticipated conversion path of the program in Maribor is shown in Annex 31 Tabl
A3-1.7. It is estimated that by the year 2000, about 2,600 more households and about 40 more
boilerhouses now using coal, wood, or heavy fuel oil will convert to cleaner fuels with the
Project than without the Project.
84.   The costs and benefits of the Project are shown in Annex 31 Tabk A3-1.8. Two
alternative scenarios have been made in estimating the environmental health benefits of the
Project. The starting points for each scenario are the estimated reductions in exposure to PM1O
and SO2 that will occur if all residential use of coal, wood and heavy fuel oil were eliminated8.
The project decline in levels of air pollution for each scenario was then obtained by estimating
emissions from the use of different fuels for residential heating given the projected level of
conversions and comparing this with the decline in emissions that will occur if the use of the
polluting fuels ceased immediately. Version 1 of the estimated health benefits, which represents
the best estimate on the available evidence, is based on a scenario in which the annual mean level
of PM1O and of sulfur dioxide will fall by 20 micrograms per cubic meter if all use of the
polluting fuels is discontinued. Version 2, which provides a lower bound for the plausible impact
of the Project, is based on a scenario in which the annual mean level of PM10 and of sulfur
dioxide will fall by only 10 micrograms per cubic meter on the same assumption. With either
of these assumptions, the Project has a large positive net present value at a discount rate of 12
% (assumed cost of capital in Slovenia). The internal rate of return (IRR) of the Project under
Version 1 is estimated to be 69 %, and under Version 2 the IRR is estimated to be 40 %.
85.   To be sure, there is considerable uncertainty as to how to value the expected reductions
in mortality and morbidity. For the purposes of this analysis, we have used estimates developed
8 These reductions were estimated by examining the average difference between average levels of pollution during
the heating and non-heating seasons over a number of years.



30
in the United States based on the costs of health care, wage rates, and the willingness to pay to
reduce the risk of death. Although we have adjusted these values to reflect differing income
levels between Slovenia and the United States, these are not likely to represent precisely Slovene
valuations. However, since we have selected values from the lower end of the U. S. range, the
health benefits in this analysis, after adjustment to Slovenian income levels, are intended to be
underestimates of the full environmental benefits of the Project. Annex 21 Tablk A2-1.1 shows
reductions in numbers of cases of illness and death expected in Maribor due to exposure to air
pollution, as well as the estimated economic value of these reductions.
86.   Even if the health benefits and the consumer surplus of the Project are excluded, the Air
Pollution Abatement component has an internal rate of return of 11 %. A price elasticity for
heating services of -0.25 has been used to compute the consumer surplus element of the benefits9.
Since there is considerable uncertainty about the appropriate value of this parameter, the final
column in AnTx1 labk A3-1.8 shows the net benefits excluding both the health benefits and
the consumer surplus.
87.   In summary, the Project component generates very large environmental benefits because
it reduces the damage to human health caused by air pollution. It has extremely high internal
rates of return when these benefits are taken into account. If all environmental benefits are
excluded, the Project generates acceptable internal rates of return. It is a clear example of a
"win-win" Project which produces both economic and environmental gains.
9      This value is at the low end (in absolute terms) of the range of estimates of the long run response of
household energy demand to changes in energy prices. Since heating costs dominate total energy
consumption in Slovenia, it is reasonable to base the analysis on such estimates. The range of elasticities for
household energy demand is typically -0.25 to -0.40.



31
B.    Benefits of GIS Component
88.   The primary benefits of the Project include:
a.    Vastly improved information on which to base land-use decisions. Access to this
information will lead to more transparent, consistent, and speedy decision-making,
with resultant reductions in costs for individuals, firms, and governmental bodies.
The GIS database will be the primary database for environmental impact analysis
and for baseline information against which to judge changes in environmental
quality.
b.    The establishment of standards for data collection, data use and the maintenace of
databases as well as a quality assurance compliance group to ensure that the GIC
infornation system operates in accordance with international standards.
C.    Increased international and domestic confidence in land and geographical related
information which will likely have a significant impact on the short and long-term
economic development of Slovenia.
C.    Risks
1.    APA Component
89.   There are four types of risk that arise in the context of the Air Pollution Abatement
Component. These are:
a.    The take-up rate for conversion loans may be smaller than anticipated, in which
case the benefits from reduced air pollution relative to the outcome with no
project will be lower than expected while the APAP will have to cover its fixed
costs from a lower volume of lending.
b.    The average cost of conversion may be higher than estimated, in which case the
number of loans extended by the APAP from the fixed resources available to it
will be lower. In this case, again, the benefits from reduced air pollution will be
lower, while the costs incurred to generate these benefits will be higher. From
a financial point of view, there is no additional risk to the APAP under this
scenario since it will be able to disburse its loan funds more quickly with the
result that there will be a larger financial surplus when the APAP is wound up.



32
c.    The financial position of the APAP might be undermined by defaults on its loans,
since a zero default rate has been assumed in estimating an appropriate interest
margin between its lending and borrowing rates. This assumption is justified on
the basis that all of the Fund's loans will be insured or guaranteed against default,
so that the default risk is being absorbed by insurance companies or other
guarantors (such as municipalities in the case of boilerhouse conversions). Thus,
any significant number of actual defaults could arise from some systemic problem
in the financial position of insurance company or other guarantors. The EcoFund
has undertaken enquiries to establish that the insurance company offering the
guarantees is financially sound, but there is little more that can be done in the
framework of the project to eliminate systemic financial risk.
d.    The other potential threat to the financial position of the APAP arises from a
mismatch in interest rate movements so that its borrowing rate rises while its
lending rate does not adjust rapidly enough to preserve its net interest margin.
Since the Loan will be a single currency loan linked to LIBOR interest rates for
DM deposits, the APAP's borrowing rate will be subject to variations in line with
short term money market rates. However, this risk has been almost eliminated
by adopting the formula that the interest rate on APAP loans will be the World
Bank lending rate plus the agreed interest margin. The only remaining exposure
arises because, as discussed in Section IV.I above, the Bank does not notify
borrowers of the relevant interest rate on LIBOR-based single currency loans until
after the relevant period has begun. At worst, this might mean that sub-loan
repayments were not adjusted to an increase in the lending rate until one month
after the increased interest rate came into effect. Since LIBOR rates are, by their
nature, readily observable, the EcoFund will apply a provisional interest rate
based on the Bank's standard formula to avoid any difficulty arising from this
notification delay.
90.   The market survey carried out in Maribor during the preparation of the project suggests
that the projected rates of conversion from coal, wood or heavy fuel oil, to cleaner fuels are
conservative. However, as a further measure to reduce any risks arising from delays in
conversion, the Government has agreed to enforce stricter emissions regulations, which have
been introduced recently. In addition, the municipalities and the EcoFund have agreed to
institute public relations campaigns to publicize the individual and environmental benefits of fuel-
switching as well as the availability of loans from the APAP. This publicity has been tested in
Maribor under the pilot program funded by the EcoFund and will be fine-tuned in the light of
experience.
91.   Even if the conversions do proceed more slowly than expected, the impact on the



33
economic rate of return will be small. Since the non-environmental costs and benefits are closely
linked, the economic rate of return excluding environmental benefits will be only slightly lower.
For a 'delays' scenario in which the conversions in Maribor take 6 years rather than 4 years, the
economic rate of return will still be 11 %, the same as with the main case examined. The
financial projections under this scenario show that the APAP has a smaller but acceptable surplus
when it is wound up and that there should be no problem in maintaining adequate reserves.
92.   An alternative 'high cost' scenario assumes that average conversion costs are 20% higher
than assumed in the main analysis. Since the 'main case' figures were based upon extensive and
detailed work on likely conversion costs undertaken by consultants during the preparation of the
project, such cost overruns are highly unlikely. Under this scenario the economic rate of return
without environmental benefits will still be 11 %.
93.   Over the past 20 years LIBOR DM interest rates for 3 and 6 month deposits have varied
in a range from 3 % to 12 % with a median annual average rate of about 6 %. The current rate
of 3.7 % is, therefore, low by historical standards and must be expected to rise, so that the
Bank's lending rate for single currency DM loans will rise with it. The interest rate charged for
all APAP loans will be adjusted at semi-annual intervals in accordance with the agreed formula.
This means that the worst possible outcome will be a very sharp rise in LIBOR DM rates which
is quickly reflected in the World Bank's interest but there is a delay of one month before this
higher rate is reflected in the rate charged to existing borrowers. In such circumstances, the
average interest rate margin received by the APAP will be temporarily below the standard level
of 2% used to compute its lending rate. On the other hand, the APAP will benefit if interest
rates fell sharply afterwards as has often been the case. Gradual changes in interest rates, either
up or down, will have little impact on its position.
94.   To simulate the impact of such turbulence in international financial markets, the financial
position of the APAP has been examined for a worst case scenario. This follows the interest
movements that occurred in the early 1980s when LIBOR DM interest rates rose from 6.5% in
1979 to 8.6% in 1980 and to 11.8% in 1981 before falling back to 8.7% in 1982 and 5.7% in
1983. It is assumed that the interest rate increases occur in years 3 and 4 of the project when the
APAP is most vulnerable because it has been unable to build up reserves. The simulations show
that the APAP will be able to cope with such turbulence comfortably by temporarily drawing
upon its working capital of DM 0.5 million.



34
2.    GIS Component
95.   The main risks affecting successful implementation of the GIS Component arise from the
lack of the qualified GIS staff; different sets of standards for collection and transfer of GIS data;
and lack of legislation and regulation to enforce the desired standards and administrative
procedures for GIS. These risks will be mitigated by requiring as a condition of effectiveness
of this component, that qualified staff have been hired, and that regulations to enforce desired
standards have been adopted.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
96.   The following actions are required to assure successful implementation of the Project and
attainment of the broader Project objectives.
97.   Air Pollution Abatement Component. Prir to negotiations, the EcoFund has fulfilled the
following conditions:
(i)    Arrangements to establish and make operational the Air Pollution Abatement
Program.
(ii)   Design, translation and submission of the existing Project Agreement between the
EcoFund and the financial agent for the APA Component. The Agreement takes
into consideration that the financial agent should take over part of the
responsibilities in the area of handling the loans and disbursements.
(iii)  Establishment of a Draft Operational Manual for the APA Component. The
manual includes eligibility criteria for loans; payroll deductions; loan agreements;
administrative procedures including forms and applications; certifications by the
Gas Company or the District Heating Company regarding availability of
connections; strategies for public relation campaigns, etc.
98.   Duxing negotiations, assurances were given that:
(i)   The EcoFund will make available, from its own resources, funds for 20 % of the
sub-project costs of the APAP program. These funds will carry an interest rate
and maturities similar to those on the World Bank sub-loans.



35
(ii)   The EcoFund will make available from its own resources funds to cover potential
deficits of the APAP which might occur particularly during the early years of
APAP implementation but are not expected to exceed DM 0.5 million. This will
be about 2% of EcoFund's equity and can easily be accommodated.
(iii)  The EcoFund will have its accounts audited annually within 6 months after the
completion of each fiscal year by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank and
transmit the results of the audit to the Bank.
99.   Conditions of Effectiveness (APAP Component):
The EcoFund, in close cooperation with the financial agent, will strengthen the
Project Implementation Team (PIT), as necessary, with appropriately qualified
staff to manage all aspects of the APAP. After two additional staff, graduated
from one of the project related fields, will have been appointed for the PIT, this
condition will have been met.
100. Conditions of Effectiveness (GIS Component):
The MEPP will set up and strengthen a small PIT to implement the GIS
Component. After additional staff, graduated from one of the project related
fields, will have been appointed for the PIT, this condition will have been met.
101.  Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable basis for a loan of DM
30.0 million to the EcoFund with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and for a loan of DM
4.6 million to the Republic of Slovenia (MEPP).
April 19, 1996
M:\SCHREIBE\SAR\SAR1\SAR\SA-2.WPD



ANNEX 1-1
LIST OF DOCUMENTS ON FILE
Air Pollution Abatement Program - pilot phase - Maribor. Short Report.
EcoFund
Ljubljana
January 1996
Audit Report of Rectified Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 31
December 1994 for the EKOLOSKO RAZVOJNI SKLAD REPUBLIKE SLOVENUJE,
d.d. by KPMG Slovenija d.o.o..
December 1995.
Service Contract between Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor and EcoFund
Ljubljana
July 1995
Public Tender of the Enviromnental Development Fund for the Republic of Slovenia,
joint stock company, Ljubljana, for Granting Loans for Air Pollution Abatement -
pilot stage - Maribor
Ljubljana
September 1995
Geographical Information System - Slovenia
Final Report
February 12, 1995
Environmental Funding Application for World Bank Support on the Implementation
of a Geographic Information Centre for the Republic of Slovenia
September 1994
North Maribor Natural Gas Market Penetration Study
Prepared for Republic of Slovenia Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical
Planming -   Draft Copy
May 1994
Economic and Ecological Benefits of Sulfur Reductions in the Sostanj Region of
Slovenia
February 14, 1994
Development of a Master Plan for Institutional Strengthening for Improved



Annex 1 -1                                                                     2
Environmental Protection within the Republic
October 1993
Republic of Slovenia
The Environmental Protection Act
Ministry of the Environment and Regional Planning
June 1993
GIS Organization and Development Plan
Slovenia Environmental Project Feasibility Study and Master Plan
Volume 3
February 1993
Preliminary Air Quality Report
Slovenia Environmental Project Feasibility Study and Master Plan
Volume 11
January 8, 1993
Market Study for Six Polluted Municipalities
IBE/Power System Consultants
February 1996
Operational Manual
February 1996
M:\SCHREIBEMSLOV-SAR\SAR_WP6i1SA-XI-I .WPD



ANNEX 2-1
HEALTH AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Health and economic benefits. Table A2-1.1 gives estimates of how many fewer deaths
and cases of respiratory illness will occur per year in Maribor with a decline in ambient
concentrations of PM1o and sulfur dioxide, and the economic value of these declines. We have
calculated the health benefits using dose-response functions developed in the United States and
Western Europe. These dose-response functions have been computed for incremental changes in
annual ambient concentrations in PMIo and sulfur dioxide, and are linear. The property of
linearity allows us to estimate annual health damage due to changes in annual ambient pollution
levels, although most health damage in Maribor (and any city where coal is a primary fuel for
space heating) occurs during the winter months. The population affected is 105,400 people,
including about 24,000 people below age 14.
To provide a sense of the economic impacts associated with the health damages, we have
assigned a monetary value to each category of health damage. Ideally, these would reflect the
total cost to the affected individual, which includes both direct costs, such as the costs of seeing
a doctor, buying medication, and lost wages, (referred to as the cost of illness), and indirect costs,
such as pain, discomfort, and restrictions in non-work activities. The value of the indirect costs
is the maximum amount the affected individual (or potentially affected individual) would be
willing to pay to prevent or eliminate the health effect, (known as willingness to pay or just
WTP).
Here, we have used values derived from studies carried out in the United States and
Western Europe. In the United States, studies have shown that individuals are willing to pay
about US$3 to reduce the risk of death by one in one million. Aggregated over a large
population, this amounts to about US$3 million per death avoided. Here we have arbitrarily used
a much more conservative figure of US$1 million as the value of a statistical life. The cost of a
respiratory hospital admission is simply the cost of the illness, comprised of US$26,900 for an
average of 10 days in the hospital and US$1,270 for lost wages. The values of all other illnesses
linked to exposure to PM1O and sulfur dioxide are based on this cost of illness approach.
The United States values have been adjusted to reflect differences in per capita income
between Slovenia and the United States. The most recent data show per capita income in Slovenia
to be US$6,310 and of United States per capita income to be US$23,240. Therefore, in this
analysis, Slovenia values are 27.15 percent of United States values.
C:\DATA\WB\SLO-ENV\SAR\SA-X2-. IWPD



Table A2-1.1 Health and economic benefits of declines in ambient concentrations
of PM10 and S02 in Maribor
Ambient concentrations decline 20 agl   mbient concentrations decline 10 ugl
Value per  value per      Nb   f *             Total         NTotal
casce     casc         Nuwnbfr caseases*    valu**                             value*br of cass*
(USS)    (USS)            PM1O       S02  (DM  000s)         PM1O       S02  (DM '000s
Mortality       1,000,000    271,500           14        7       8,650             7         4       4,325
Respiratory        28,164     7,647            25                  287            13                  143
hospital
Emergency room       258         70           495                   52           248                   26
visits
Respiratory           58         16       121,210                2,863        60,605                 1,432
activity days                                .
Lower                 326        89           765                  102           383                   51
rcspiratory
Asthma                100        27         10,996                 448         5,498                  224
symptoms
Chronhitis        200.000     54,300           130              10,589            65                 5,294
bronchitis
Respiratory            15         4       385,765                2,357       192,883                 1,178
symptoms
Respiratory            15         4                       9          0                       S
symptoms, child
Chest discomfort       15         4                  21,080        129                  10,540         64
Total annual                          |25475                                                       12,738
- For a population of 104,500, including 24,000 persons under the age of 14.
-* One USS equals 1.5 German narks (DM).
Wahington, D.C.. Mach 1, 1996



ANNEX 3-1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Key Assumptions, Fuel Use, Emissions, and Ambient Air Quality,
Conversion Rates, and Costs and Benefits of the Project
This Annex contains the following tables:
Table A3-1.1 Average and maximum ambient concentrations of SO2 and TSP in Slovenia,
1991-93
Table A3-1.2 Heating conversion potential in Maribor
Table A3-1.3 Importance of barriers to conversion for households
Table A3-1.4 Key assumptions used in calculating the costs and benefits of converting to natural
gas or district heating
Table A3-1.5 PM1O and SO2 emissions in tonnes per Mtoe of fuel
Table A3-1.6 Fuel use, emissions, and ambient air quality for Maribor
Table A3-1.7 Anticipated conversions to clean fuels in Maribor with and without the project
Table A3-1.8 Costs and benefits of the project
Details on the tables follow.
Key assumptions. The economic analysis of the project is based on a comparison of costs
and benefits, with and without the project. Table A3-1.4 shows the key assumptions used to
calculate the economic benefits of the project, including fuel use and costs, operating and
maintenance costs and capital costs. Anticipated conversions of existing facilities with and
without the project for four alternative heating systems are shown in table A3-1.7. Table A3-1.4
shows the annualized capital cost of alternative heating systems, assuming an interest rate of 6.5
percent, (column I) to highlight the difference in annualized capital costs between a natural gas
or a district heating system and the alternatives'. The annual savings (costs) are shown in column
T. The table also shows the consumer surplus produced with the gas or the district heating system
-- the amount consumers would be willing to pay in excess of what they actually have to pay for
their heat. Finally, the table shows the expenses the gas and district heating companies will incur
to meet the increased demand.
Fuel use, emissions, and ambient air quality. Table A3-1.6 shows fuel use, emissions,
and ambient air quality for Maribor. For the analysis, we assume that heating season ambient air
concentrations of PM,0 and sulfur dioxide fall close to non-heating season averages once dirty fuel
fuel users convert to cleaner fuels. In Maribor, concentrations of PM1o and sulfur dioxide average
l     The cost benefit analysis (Table A3-1.8) treats all capital costs as sunk costs, so the savings on capital
costs are not included as part of the benefits of the project.



Annex 3-1                                                                       2
about 65 micrograms per cubic meter during the heating season, and about 20 during the non-
heating season; the annual average is about 40 micrograms per cubic meter. Since there are no
other major sources of emissions which could account for the difference between winter and
summertime concentrations, we can assume that almost all the difference is due to the use of dirty
fuels. Eliminating the use of these fuels for space heating should lower wintertime PM,o and
sulfur dioxide concentrations to the levels prevailing during the other months of the year, and
therefore should reduce annual averages by at least 20 micrograms per cubic meter (Version 1).
We have also shown results for a smaller decline in ambient concentrations of 10 micrograms per
cubic meter (Version 2).
Improvements in ambient air quality are proportional to reductions in emissions from the
burning of coal, gas-oil, and heavy fuel oil. The improvements shown in Table A3-1.6 are
relative to what would occur without the project. For example, in 1998, the annual ambient air
concentration of PM1O is 11 micrograms per cubic meter lower than without the project, assuming
the decline in PM,O concentrations once the project is fully implemented is 20 micrograms per
cubic meter (Version 1).
Conversion rates. Table A3-1.7 shows anticipated conversions in Maribor by fuel type
for the Air Pollution Abatement Component with and without the project. For example, with the
project, 1,500 more households and 24 more boiler houses now using coal, wood, or heavy fuel
oil would convert to clean fuels by the year 1997 with the project than without the project.
Costs and benefits. Table A3-1.8 shows the costs and benefits of the project. These are
based on the difference of what would occur with and without the project. With the project,
annual gas network expansion costs would be 700,000 DM higher in 1995 than without the
project. This is computed as follows: with the project, network expansion costs are 3 million
DM, or 1 million per year from 1995-97. Without the project, the network will still expand, but
more slowly: without the project network expansion costs are 300,000 DM per year. With the
project, network expansion costs are 700,000 DM higher than without the project for 3 years from
1995-97. From 1998-2004 they are 300,000 less, since these costs would have been incurred
anyway. The present value of this stream of costs at an interest rate of 12 percent is 707,000 DM.
The calculations for all the cost categories are carried out the same way.
Benefits include (i) avoided fuel, and operating and maintenance costs of the old systems,
(ii) consumer surplus, and (iii) health benefits. (The savings on running costs per household or
boiler house are shown in Table A3-1.4, column H). The benefits represent the difference of
what would occur with the project versus without the project.
To truncate the analysis at 20 years, it is necessary to assume that the number of
unconverted systems after the final period is identical for both the with project and without project
cases. Because we assume that the difference is eliminated in the final year, there is a large
negative conversion cost in that year. Since the conversion of heating systems on its own has a
positive net present value, this end-of-period adjustment must be less than the present value of the



Annex 3-1                                                                             3
benefits that would arise from a continuing difference between the number of converted systems
under the two cases. Thus, the analysis understates the true net benefits of the project.
Health benefits are presented for two assumptions.  Under Version 1, ambient
concentrations of both PMIo and sulfur dioxide fall by 20 micrograms per cubic meter. Under
Version 2, ambient concentrations fall by only 10 micrograms per cubic meter. Table A3. 1 shows
in detail the assumptions used to calculate the health benefits.
M:\SCHREIBE\SLOV-SAR\SAR_WP6 1\SA-X3-I .WPD



Table A3-1.1 Average and maximum ambient concentrations of S02 and TSP in Slovenia, 1991-93
(micrograms per cubic meter)
1991                                    1992                                          1993
Averages
Annual   24hour    1-hour          Annual   24-hour    1-hour                   Heating       Non-        24-hour    1-hour
average  maximu        maximum     average    nw    mimum*            Annual  so             heating      maximun  maximu
season
Sulfur dioxide (S02)
Maribor         89        447        684            52       236        542            42        70           20           235        425
Zagorije        87        531       1,150           73       333       1,177           61       100           25           424       1,073
Celje           95        551       1,260           60       330        772            58       100           20           414        855
Trbovlje        119       630       1,667           69       391       1,362           76       118           34           455       1,012
Hrmstni         99        820       1.724           65       366        890            55        83           28           421        685
LjublJan        63        378        825            54       256       1,425           44        70           20           344       1,481
Velenje *       20        150        900            20        187       775            20        27           12           195       1,255
TotaI suspended part eilat. (FSP)***
(a,uwal average)
Maribor         82        285                       77       235                       73                                  225
*   Based on incomplete dat
** Heating season is October - March
*** About 67 percent of TSP is PM10. Thus 82 micrograms per cubic meter of TSP is equivalent to about 55 micrograms of PM10.
Sources: Sulfur dioxide dama from Hydrometeorological Institute of Slovenia; TSP data from Manbor, Public Health Institute.
Wuhiop, D.C., ha. 17, 1996



Annex 3-1                                                                                                                          5
Table A3-1.2 Heating conversion potential in Maribor
Boiler houses                Households
Curreat fuel       Numnber      Percent        Number       Percent
TO GAS
Coal or wood          30           54            2,000         49
Fuel oil              25          28               0           0
TO DISTRICT HEAT
Coal or wood          10           18            2,100         51
Total                 65          100            4,100        100
Washington. D.C., Jan. 17, 1996



Annex 3-1                                                                                                                 6
Table A3-1.3 Importance of barriers to conversion for households
Percent of respondents
rating each number one
Barriers                         North    Southeast
Conversion costs too high         21.2        61.8
Gas is dangerous                   9.1        2.1
Future gas prices too uncertain   18.2        11.9
Lack of information               18.2        10.8
Other                             33.3        13.4
Total                              100         100
Washinglon. D.C., Jan. 17, 1996



Table A3-1.4 Key assumptions used in calculating the costs and benefits of converting to natural gas or district heat                                                                                >
(all monetary units are DM, interest rate = 6.5%)
Expenses for current fuel use
A                B           C           D             E              F             G            H             I            J
Caual costs   System     Annulfue                                 Annual O&M       Annual
for current    lifetm    conumMon   DM perfuel   Total anntl  including labor runnig costs   Annuaized   Total annual
Nwiber           system      (years)       (gj)          unit    fuel cost (DxE)     csts'        (F+G)       capital cost  costs (H+l)
CONVERSIONS TO GAS
Cod md wood
tXXUdIOIdS               2,000             5,284        12           82.4         10.2          840.5           472         1,312         648          1,960
boiles                     30            130,810        15         2,538.0        10.2       25,887.6        18,600        44,488       13,912        58,400
Hiv fad dl
boilers                    16            199,790        20         8,132.0         7.8       63,754.9        17.765        81,520       18,132        99,652
CONVERSIONS TO
DISTI7CT HEAT
Cod md d
hseholds                 2,100             5,284        12           82.4         10.2          840.5           472         1.312         648          2,960
boile                       10           130,810        15         2,538.0        10.2       25,887.6        18,600        44,488       13,912        58,400
l The asamii nig cost for housebol  using coal includes 366 DM for time spent hading coal, tending the stove, disposing of asbes, etc.
1l.c behmg ason lats 6 moD., so eah bhosehold spends about 135 hours per year tcaling the coal healing sytern. This time is valued
at on-half de wage rate, or about equivalesy to the value peopkc place on tite speing travelling to work.
*  Hseholdsi  my bofrow 80% of conversion cos. Boilen boow 100%.
W, D.C. _ 1. 1



Annex 3-1                                                                                            8
Table A3-1.5 PM1O and S02 emissions in tonnes per Mtoe of fuel
(I toe = 41.868 GJ)
PMIO      S02
Coal            62,980    84,000
Gas-oil          1,407     9,700
Heavy fuel oil     938    52,000
Washington. D.C.. Jan 17, 1996



Table A3-1.6 Fuel use, emissions, and ambient air quality for Maribor                                         p
Annualfuel use        Total annual emissions               ~~~~~~~~Improvernent in annrual arnbientx
Annual facl usc                            Total annruzal emissions               concentation due to the project
TI (thousand gigqjoule)                            (tonnes)                         (micrograms per cubic meter)
No project             With project            No project          With project            Version I         Version 2
Coal    Heavy        Coa   Heavy              PM10      S02      PM10      S02            PMIO    S02    PMIO    S02
fuel oil            fuel oil
1996          439      203          439     203            675      1198       675     1198            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
1997          414      195          332     163            636      1134      511       929            3.7      3.4       1.8     1.7
1998          388      187          224     122            597      1071       348      661            7.4      6.9      3.7      3.4
1999          362      179          116      81            556      1006       185      392           11.0      10.2     5.5      5.1
2000          335       171          54      41             516      941        90      216            12.6    12.1       6.3      6.1
2001          307       163           0       0             473      873         8       55            13.8     13.7      6.9      6.8
2002          279       155           0       0             430      804         8       53            12.5     12.5      6.3      6.3
2003          251       146           0       0             388      736         7       51            11.3     11.4      5.6      5.7
2004          223       138           0       0             346      669         7       49            10.0     10.3      5.0      5.2
2005          195       130           0       0             303      601         7       48             8.8      9.2      4.4      4.6
2006          168       122           0       0             262      534         7       46             7.6      8.2      3.8      4.1
2007          140       114           0       0             220      467         6       44             6.3      7.1      3.2      3.5
2008          113       106           0       0             179      400         6       42             5.1      6.0      2.6      3.0
2009          101        98           0       0             161      365         6       40            4.6       5.4      2.3      2.7
2010           91        89           0       0             145      333         6       38            4.1       4.9      2.1      2.5
2011           81        81           0       0             130      301         5        37            3.7      4.4      1.8      2.2
2012           71       73            0       0             114      269         5       35             3.2      3.9      1.6      2.0
2013           61        65           0       0              99      237         5       33             2.8      3.4      1.4      1.7
2014           51        57           0       0              83      205         5       31             2.3      2.9      1.2      1.5
2015           41       49            0       0              68       173        4       30             1.9      2.4      0.9      1.2
2016           31       41            0       0              52       142        4       29             1.4      1.9      0.7      0.9
W_DWm .C.._17,171996i



Table A3-1.7 Anticipated conversions to clean fuels heat in Maribor with and without the project
Number of u    burning coal/Vwood          Number heavy fuel oil                   Number of units burning gs                   Number of units with district heat
Year           No project              With project       No project    With project           No projecf              With project              No project             Wit/h project
Households    Boilers    Households    Boilers       Boilers       Boilers      Households    Boilers   Households    Boilers   Households    Boilers    Households    Boilers
1996         4,100         40         4,100         40            25           25                0          0             0          0            0          0             0          0
1997         3,0           38         3,100         30            24           20              200          2           800          14          50           1          200           1
199i         3,600         36         2,100         20            23            15             350          2          1,400        25           150         4           600          5
1999         3.340         34         1,100         10            22           10              460           1         1,900        36          300          8          1100          9
2000         3,08O         32           500          5            21             5             570          2         2,000         42          450          10          1600         13
2001         2,J00         30             0          0            20             0             700          3         2,000          50          600         12         2100          15
2002         2,520         2S             0          0            19             0             880          4          2,000         SO         700          14         2100          15
2003         2,240         26             0          0            18             0            1,060          6         2,000         50          800         15         2100          15
2004          1,970        24             0          0            17             0            1,230          9         2,000        50          900          15          2100         15
2005          1,690        22             0          0            16             0            1,410         12         2,000        50          1000         15          2100         15
2006          1,420        20             0          0            15             0            1,580         15         2,000         50         1100         15          2100         15
2007          1,150        18             0          0            14             0            1,750         18         2,000        50          1200         15          2100         15
2006           88O         16             0          0            13             0            1.920        21          2.000        50          1300         15          2100         15
2009           iOO         14             0          0            12             0            1,900        24          2,000        50          1400         15         2100          15
2010           740         12             0          0            11             0            1,910        27         2,000         50          1450         15         2100          15
2011           6il         10             0          0            10             0            1,920        30          2,000        50          1500         15         2100          15
2012           620          a             0          0             9             0            1,930        33          2,000        50          1550         15         2100          15
2013           560          6             0          0             8             0            1,940         36         2,000        50          1600         15         2100          15
2014           500          4             0          0             7             0            1,950         39         2,000         50         1650         15          2100         15
2015           440          2             0          0             6             0            1,960        42          2,000        50          1700         15         2100         IS
2016           380          0             0          0             5             0            1.970        45          2,000         50         1750         15         2100         IS
Wv _opm D.C.. -m. 17. 1"6



Table A3-1.8 Costs and benefits of the project (DM '000s) (contd)
X
Benefits                                                                          Net Benefits
Avoided    Consumer        Health benefits      TOTAL BENEFITS                    Including health benefils  Exci health  Excl health
running costs  surplus                                                                                      benefits   benefits &
on old                                                                                                               consumer
systems                                                                                                               surplus
Version I   Version 2   Version I   Version 2              Version I   Version 2
1996          0           0           0           0           0           0                  (6,600)     (6,600)     (6,600)    (6,600)
1997       1,666         52       3,533       1,766       5,251       3,485                  (3,836)     (5,603)     (7,369)    (7,421)
1998       3,332        117        7,066      3,533       10,515      6,982                   2,589       (944)      (4,477)    (4,594)
1999       4,986        178       10,565      5,283      15,729      10,447                   8,205      2,922       (2,361)    (2,539)
2000       5,891        227       12,199      6,100       18,317     12,218                  14,448       8,348      2,249       2,022
2001       6,640        259       13,429      6,714      20,328      13,613                  19,423      12,708       5,994      5,735
2002       6,102        229       12,234      6,117       18,564     12,447                  18,048      11,931       5,814      5,585
2003       5,564        203       11,039      5,520       16,806     11,286                  16,633      11,113       5,593      5,391
2004       5,039        182        9,878      4,939       15,099     10,160                  15,243      10,304       5,365      5,183
2005       4,501         161       8,684      4,342       13,345      9,004                  13,703       9,361       5,019      4,859
2006       3,976         140       7,523      3,761       11.639      7,878                  11,959       8,197      4,436       4,296
2007       3,451         120       6,362      3,181       9,932       6,752                  10,514       7,333      4,153       4,033
2008       2,926         99        5,201      2,600       8,226       5,626                   8,060       5,460      2,859       2,760
2009       2.651         88        4,679      2,340        7,419      5,079                   7,354       5,015       2,675      2,586
2010       2,402         82        4,225      2,113        6,709      4,596                   6,272       4,159       2,047       1,965
2011       2,152         75        3,772       1,886       5,999      4,113                   5,690       3,804       1,918       1,844
2012       1,903         68        3,318       1,659       5,289      3,630                   5,108       3,449       1,790      1,722
2013       1,654         61        2,864       1,432       4,579      3,147                   4,525       3,094       1,662       1,601
2014       1,405         54        2,410       1,205       3,869      2,664                   3,943       2,738       1,533       1,479
2015       1,156         47        1,956        978        3,158      2,181                   3,361       2,383       1,405      1,358
2016        906          40        1,502        751        2,448       1,698                  4,389       3,638       2,887      2,847
NPV at 12%      26,740         972      53,446      26,723      81,157      54,435                 55,042      28,319       1,596        624
NPV at8%        35,225       1,280      69,816      34,908     106,321      71,413                 77,677      42,769       7,861       6,581
IRR                                                                                                    62          38         13          13
Sum             68,303       2,481     132,437      66,219     203,221     137,002                 169,029    102,811      36,592      34,111
WV. i.gwo  D.C. J.  17 19                                                                                                                                _



ANNEX 3-2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN



Annex 3-2                                                                                                     2
ANNEX 3-2
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Table of Contents
Introduction  ....4
I.    The Project . ...............................................   4
A.    Project Objectives   .......................................  4
B.    Project Description  .......................................  4
II. Implementation Arrangements                         .......................                                S
A.    Organization Responsible for APA  - Component ..................... S
B.    Financial Agent (FA) for the APA  - Component) ..................... 7
C.    Sub-loan Terms and Condition (APA) - Component   .................  8
D.    Implementation of the GIC - Component .........................  8
E.  Role of the Bank .               ........................................ 10
HI.  Project Costs and Financing  ..................................... 12
A.    Project Costs . ..........................................  12
B.    Detailed Financing Plan ............                     ........................  12
C.    Procurement Arrangements and Schedule ......................... 16
D.    Disbursement Arrangements and Schedules  ....................... 19
E.    Audits and Reporting ...... ............................... 20
Appendix Figure
Al    Organization of project implementation  .......................... 21
Appendix Tables
Al    APA - Component: Air pollution abatement program  costs  ............. 22
A2    GIS - Component: GIS project costs ............................ 23
A3    APA  - Component: Air pollution abatement sub-loan schedule  ....                       ....... 24
A4    GIS - Component: GIS procurement plan and schedule ................ 25
AS    Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ............................. 27



Annex 3-2                                                                                3
Attachements
Attachment 1:   Draft Terms of Reference - Local Consultants .....       ............ 28
Attachment 2:   Draft Terms of Reference for Foreign Management (FM)
(Foreign Consultants) .........       ............................ 30
Attachment 3:   Draft Terms of Reference of the Training Center (TC) .32



Annex 3-2                                                                     4
ANNEX 3-2
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
Introduction
1.    This Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was tentatively agreed upon with the EcoFund and
the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning (MEPP) during appraisal and finalized during
negotiations. The PIP is the result of the joint efforts of the staff of the EcoFund, the MEPP and the
World Bank.
1.    The Project
A.   Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Environment Project are to:
(i)   significantly reduce the urban air pollution in Slovenian towns with the highest
pollution levels with a view to reducing and eliminating damage to health being
sustained by the urban population; and
(ii)  assist the MEPP in developing standardized data sets and procedures to strengtheland
use planning and environmental management capabilities.
B.   Project Description
3.    The proposed project has two components:
(i)   Air Pollution Abatement (APA) Component. Under this component, the project
will provide sub-loans to households and boilerhouse owners/operators in the most
polluted areas of Slovenia, to procure the equipment, materials, labor and small
works needed to convert heating systems which use polluting fuels (coal, wood, other
solid fuels, and heavy fuel oil) to the use of clean fuels (natural gas, LPG, district
heating, heat pumps, and solar heating).



Annex 3-2                                                                     5
(ii)   Geographical Information System (GIS) Component. This component will
include the development and implementation of the expansion of the Slovenian
Geographical Information Center. The project will provide computer hardware and
software and technical assistance, including consultant services, and training.
4.    The total project cost is about DM 55.4 million, of which DM 34.6 million will be financed
through loans from the World Bank to the EcoFund for the Air Pollution Abatement Component
(DM 30 million, Guarantee from the Republic of Slovenia) and the Government for the GIC
component to be implemented by the MEPP (DM 4.6 million). The project will be implemented
over a period of five years by the EcoFund and the MEPP.
II.   Implementation Arrangements
A.   Organization Responsible for the APA - Component
5.    The borrower for the project will be (i) the Slovenian EcoFund (Ekolosko Razvojni Sklad
Republike Slovenije) for the Air Pollution Abatement Component (APA Component) and (ii) the
MEPP for the GIC component.
6.    Air Pollution Abatement Component. The EcoFund has set up a Project Implementation
Team (PIT) (see the Chart "Organization of Project Implementation" in Figure I of Annex 3-2) for
preparation and implementation of the APA Component. The team consists of the Director of the
EcoFund, three Assistant Directors, and a general secretary. The PIT will be assisted by additional
consultants when needed. The Director of the EcoFund will be the project director and head of the
PIT. He will be responsible for project implementation, including coordination with other agencies
involved in implementing the project, for management of the loan funds, and for cooperation with
the World Bank. Two additional staff will be hired before August 1996. The PIT will have the
following responsibilities:
Implementation:
-     Organize information campaigns for informing households and boilerhouse
owners/operators about availability of loan funds;
-     Supervise processing of appliations for sub-loans and sub-project implementation;
-     Monitor project expenditures and costs, and loan repayments;
-     Ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government institutions and
the World Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditures and accounts;
-     Prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) within six months of the completion of
the component;



Annex 3-2                                                                     6
procurement
-     Ensure that procurement under the project is being carried out in accordance with the
agreed procedures and the World Bank Procurement Guidelines;
-     Provide support to the financial agent and the beneficiaries of the APAP in the
procurement approval process and monitor procurement activities;
-     Prepare periodic procurement status reports for the World Bank.
Finance
Select a financial agent (FA) for the administration of EcoFund loans (this has been
done already for a Pilot Program in Maribor);
Prepare and execute a Financial Administration Agreement between EcoFund and
the Financial Agent. This also has been done already for a Pilot Program in Maribor.
Modifications to expand the agreement to the full APA component have been agreed
during negotiations.
Prepare, in close collaboration with the FA, a proforma sub-loan agreement between
EcoFund and the beneficiaries, covering conditions of the loans (guarantees, loan
repayment, procurement, disbursements, auditing, reporting, etc.), and to monitor and
evaluate the implementation of these loan arrangements (this has been done already
for a Pilot Program in Maribor);
Participate in the financing of APAP loan beneficiaries (providing loans);
Coordinate project implementation with the FA and monitor and evaluate the loan
administration;
Disbursement
Supervise establishment and processing of procurement supporting documents,
submitted by the FA, such as contract or purchase orders, transportation documents,
invoices and vouchers or statements of expenditures (SOEs);
Supervise the FA, that will make payments to suppliers of goods of the APAP
component;
Supervise the FA, that will prepare withdrawal applications for disbursements from
the loan;



Annex 3-2                                                                     7
-     Manage the special account including its replenishment;
Supervise the FA, that will maintain project accounts.
B.   Financial Agent (FA) for the APA Component
7.    While the EcoFund PIT would have the overall responsibility for the implementation of this
component, the services of a commercial bank would be engaged as a Financial Agent. In close
cooperation with the Bank, Nova Kreditna Banca Maribor (NKBM) was selected as a FA and
discharged its responsibilities satisfactorily during the pilot phase of the program that operated from
September to November 1995 in Maribor. It has been agreed during negotiations that NKBM will
continue to act as the FA for the project. The responsibilities of the FA, who should continue to be
in good standing with the Bank of Slovenia, would be as follows:
Prepare an information sheet, including the eligibility criteria for the sub-loans and
a sub-loan application form and its distribution to potential beneficiaries, households
and boilerhouse owners/operators;
Receive sub-loan applications, reviewing them against the pre-agreed eligibility
criteria and approving the sub-loan applications or rejecting them for not meeting the
eligibility criteria, such as the applicant's ability to provide 20% of the sub-project
cost and his or her ability to repay the loan amount;
-     Sign sub-loan agreements; monitor their execution;
-     Receive purchase orders, invoices and vouchers from the beneficiaries, review them
for accuracy and, with the help of the PIT, for compliance with the procurement
procedures, and make payments to suppliers;
-     For sub-loans to households, submit to the PIT Statements of Expenditures based on
the purchase orders, invoices and vouchers and submit them to the EcoFund for
reimbursement;
-     For sub-loans to boilerhouse owners/operators, submit to the PIT the Statement of
Expenditures based on the contracts or the purchase orders, invoices and vouchers,
and submit them to the EcoFund for reimbursement.
-     Maintain sub-loan accounts, and payment documents, and make them available, upon
request, to the PIT, the World Bank staff and auditors.
-     Prepare and submit a quarterly report to the PIT on the number of applications
received; number of sub-loans granted; number of sub-loans rejected, reasons for



Annex 3-2                                                                     8
their rejection; and the status of granted sub-loans.
-     Submit annual audits, to be carried out by an auditor accepted to the Bank.
C.   Sub-loan Terms and Conditions for the APA Component
8.    Sub-loans would be made at the following terms and conditions to finance conversions:
(a)   For households, the term of the loan will be up to 6 years;
(b)   For boilerhouse owners/operators, the term will be up to 10 years.
9.    The sub-loan amounts would cover 80 % of the conversion costs. The Bank loan would
finance 75 % of the volume of lending (up to DM30 million) and the EcoFund EcoFund would
finance 25 %. The PIT has prepared an Operational Manual which includes detailed eligibility
criteria for loans, administrative procedures including forms for applications, and the procedure
for certification by the natural gas company or the district heating company regarding availability
of connections, payroll deductions, loan agreements, etc.
D.   Implementation of the GIC component
10.   This component would be implemented by the Geographical Information Center in the
MEPP. Implementation arrangements are as of March 12, 1996, as follows:
PrQoect Director (PD) is mag. Dusan Blaganje, State Secretary;
Proiect Manager (PM) is Jurij Retek, Head of GIC;
Project Imnlementation Team (PIT) (core staff) encomprises Jurij Retek, GIC;
Majda &u6ek-Kumelj, Planning Office of the Republic of Slovenia, specialist for
land use planning and environmental monitoring; Marjan Podobnikar, Geodetic
Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, specialist for basic geometry databases; Ales
Marinsek, GIC, specialist for metadatabase, hardware, software; Albert Kolar,
GIC; specialist for hardware and software and networking; and two additional
staff, for procurement and disbursement and for project management. The
additional staff will be hired prior to loan effectiveness.
Compne  (Local) Managers (CM): Jure Sugtergie, Koper Region; and one
additional staff for each the Ljubljana Region and Maribor Region.
11.   Responsibilities of the PD would be:



Annex 3-2                                                                            9
-     to monitor the implementation of the project.
to assure that the project is achieving the main goals within political and legislative
frame.
to grant support for the implementation of the project from all levels.
12.   Responsibilities of the PM would be:
-     to undertake responsibilities of the implementation of the project.
-     to define the design and implementation plan of the project (with PIT).
-     to manage PIT and to assist PIT in decision making.
-     to prepare (together with PIT) exact time schedule and detailed financing plan of
the project.
-     to prepare the selection criteria for the evaluation processes.
-     to help PIT to evaluate and select offers for local consultants, training and foreign
consultants.
-     to negotiate and prepare contracts.
-     to prepare procurement status reports.
-     to monitor expenditures and cost of the project.
-     to submit payment requests to PIU at the Ministry of Finance.
-     to ensure timely preparation of reports to the WB and project director.
-     to prepare a project completion report.
-     to take necessary steps to mitigate risk of the project implementation.
13.   Responsibilities of PIT would be:
-     to organize information campaigns and to promote the project.
-     to undertake responsibilities for the implementation of components of the project.
-     to define the detailed objectives of the components (with project manager).
-     to define the detailed design and implementation plans of the components (with
local consultants and component managers).
-     to prepare detailed financial plans within the frames of the project.
-     to prepare terms of reference for consultant assignments, letters of invitation,
shortlists, contract conditions.
-     to evaluate offers for local consultants, foreign consultants and training.
-     to evaluate offers for hardware and software purchase.
-     to prepare terms of reference for component contractors (management and
suppliers).
-     to assist component managers in evaluation of offers for component contractors.
-     to coordinate and assist priority areas managers in organization of their work.
-     to verify the financial aspect of the projects in priority areas.
-     to submit payment requests to the project manager.
-     to monitor the progress of work on the project components.



Annex 3-2                                                                       10
-     to verify (with assistance of local consultants) the expertness and correctness of
decisions on the components.
to verify (with assistance of LC) the correctness of the work done in priority areas.
to ensure timely preparation of reports on the project progress on the components.
14.   Procurement and disbursement would be undertaken with the support of the Ministry of
Finance.
E.   Role of the Bank
15.   The project would require about 7 staff weeks of Bank supervision per year on average
during implementation, as reflected in the proposed supervision plan below:



Annex 3-2                                                                                           11
Timing         Staff Weeks     Staffing                                No of           No of
Trins          Field Weeks
CY1996                  10     Bank resources (10 weeks) of which:     2               5
-   Task Manager (4 weeks)
-   Environment Specialist (2 weeks)
-   Financial Analyst (2 week)
-   Procurement Specialist (2 week)
CY1997                 6       Bank resources 6 weeks of which:        2               3
-   Task Manager (2 weeks)
-   Environment Specialist (2 weeks)
-   Financial Analyst (I weeks)
-   Procurement Specialist (I week)
CY 1998                6       Bank resources 6 weeks of which:        2               3
-   Task Manager (3 weeks)
-   Environment Specialist (1 week)
-   Financial Analyst (I week)
-   Procurement Specialist (1 week)
CY 1999                6       Bank resources 6 weeks of which:        2               3
-   Task Manager (2 weeks)
-   Environment Specialist (2 week)
-   Financial Analyst (I week)
-   Procurement Specialist (I week)
CY2000                 6       Bank resources 6 weeks of which:        2               3
-   Task Manager (3 weeks)
-   Environment Specialist (I week)
-   Financial Analyst (I week)
-   Procurement Specialist (I week)
CY200 1                7       Bank resources 7 weeks of which:        2               3
Completion                     -   Task Manager (2 weeks)
Report                         -   Environment Specialist (2 weeks)
-   Financial Analyst (2 weeks)
-   Procurement Specialist (I week)
Total                  41                                              12             20
16.    An evaluation of the EcoFund's Pilot Program was carried out in February 1996. A mid-term
project review would be carried out by January/February 1997.



Annex 3-2                                                                       12
III.   Project Costs and Financing
A.    Project Costs
17.   The estimated cost by project component is shown in Table 1.3. Detailed yearly project costs
are also shown in Table 1.4. Cost tables for both components are shown in Tables Al and A2.
18.   Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)   Base Costs. Cost estimates for the APAP are based on the results of the pilot phase
of the program and on market surveys carried out to estimate the potential of
converting households and district heating plants from coal to gas in Maribor. These
studies were financed by the Bank's Dutch Trust Fund for Central and Eastern
Europe. The cost estimates for the GIC component are based on previous purchases
by the MEPP of GIS computer hardware and software.
(b)   Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies of 3 % or DM 0.2 million have
been included in the GIC component. Price contingencies for the GIC component
are estimated at DM 0.2 million equivalent to 10% of the local base cost and 2%
of the foreign exchange cost. No contingencies are included in the costs of the APA
component since this will operate as a line of credit, though an allowance for
inflation has been included in estimating the average loan sizes and thus the number
of loans that can be financed from the funds made available under the Project.
(c)   Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about DM 34.6 million (DM 30 million for the APA Component and DM4.6 million
for the GIC component).
B.    Detailed Financing Plan
19.   The proposed Bank loans of total DM 34.6 million would finance approximately 62 % of the
total project costs. The EcoFund, final borrowers, and the MEPP would finance the balance of the
project costs (about DM 20.8 million), including duties and taxes. The Financing Plan is shown in
Tables 1.1 and 1.2 below:



Annex 3-2                                                                     13
Table 1.1 Financing plan by component (DM million)
IBRD      EcoFund      Final     MEPP        Total
Borrower
1. Air Pollution           30.0        10.0       10.0        --         50.0
Abatement Program
2. Geographical             4.6        --          --         0.8         5.4
Information System
Total Disbursement         34.6        10.0       10.0        0.8        55.4
Washington, D.C.; March 12, 1996
Table 1.2 Financing plan by financier (DM million)
Local     Foreign     Total
EcoFund                                           10.0        0.0        10.0
Final Borrower                                    10.0        0.0        10.0
MEPP                                               0.8        0.0         0.8
IBRD                                               0.0        34.6       34.6
Total                                             20.8       34.6        55.4
Washington, D.C.; March 12, 1996



x
Table 1.3 Project costs by component and by expenditure .
(Slovenian Tolars Million)                         (DM Million)
Total base                     Total base  ~~~~~~Foreign
Project Component        Local      Foreign      Total     cost bs      Lo(al     Foreign      Total     Tot         exchange
1. Air Polution Abatement
Program (APAP)
Equipment, materials, labor and
small associated works         1,660.00    2,490.00    4,150.00                 20.00       30.00      50.00                     60
2. Geographical Information
System (GIS)
Hardware and Software              9.90      54.90       64.80                   0.11        0.61       0.72                     83
Consultancies and Training        66.60     356.40      423.00                   0.74        3.96       4.70                     84
Subtotal                          76.49     411.30      487.79         94        0.85        4.57       5.42          94         84
Total Project Cost             1,736.49    2,901.30    4,637.79          -      20.85       34.57      55.42                     62
Washington, D.C., April 14, 1996
4A



Table 1.4 Detailed Costs (DM  Million)
1996                       1997                        1998                        1999                   Grand Total
Local  Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total
1. Air Pollution Abat.ment
Program (APAP)
Equipment, materials, labor
and small associated works         5.50     8.25   13.75       8.25    12.38   20.63       5.50     8.25   13.75       0.75     1 13    1.88     20.00    30.00   50.00
2. Geographical Information
System (GIS)
Hardware and Software              0.11     0.61    0.72      0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00       0 11    0.61    0 72
ConsultanrciesandTraining          0.12     0.13    0.25      0.42      2.11    2.53       0.20     1.72    1.92       0.00    0.00    0.00       0.74     3.96    4 70
Suibtotal                          0.23     0.74    0.97      0.42      2.11    2.53       0.20     1.72    1.92       000     0.00    0.00       0.85     4.57    5.42
Tutal Project Cost                 5.73     8.99   14.72      8.67     14.49   23.16       5.70     9.97   15.67      0.75      1.13    1.88     20.85    34.57   55.42
Washington, D.C., April 18, 1996



Annex 3-2                                                                               16
C.    Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
20.   Procurement arrangements under the project are summarized in Table 1.5 below:
Table 1.5 Procurement arrangements (DM million)a
ICB           Other                         Total
1. APA Component
Equipment and materials                           50.0                          50.0
(30.0)b                      (30.0)
2. GIC component
Computer hardware and                              0.7                           0.7
softwarec '-                                      (0.6)                         (0.6)
Consultant Servicesd                               4.7                           4.7
(4.0)                         (4.0)
TOTAL                                               55.4                          55.4
(34.6)                       (34.6)
Notes: Numbers may not add up due to rounding
a/     Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank Loans.
b/     Other includes: procurement by households by local shopping (DM20.0 million); procurement by private
boilerhouse owners/operators using established commercial practices (at least three price quotations) and by
public boilerhouse owners/operators using public procurement regulations (DM10 million)
C/    Includes Intemational Shopping (DM300,000), and Direct Contracting (DM300,000).
d/     Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (DM4.0 million)
21.   APA Component. During project implementation, EcoFund would make approximately
6,500 sub-loans to households and 65 sub-loans to boilerhouse owners/operators. Of the total
estimated cost of DM 50 million for the component, the Bank loan will cover DM 30 million or
about 60%. 20% of the sub-loans will be funded by the EcoFund, 20% by the beneficiaries. A
yearly sub-loan schedule is in Table A3.
22.   Households and boilerhouse owners/operators will procure the needed equipment, materials,
labor and associated civil works, in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines dated January 1995,
as follows:
(a)    Households. Individual contracts for heating equipment and materials for households
should generally not exceed DM 12,500. The Bank has established that the labor,
material and equipment that would be required by households to convert their heating



Annex 3-2                                                                      17
systems to cleaner fuels are available within Slovenia from several sources to ensure
sufficient competition. The Bank has also established that normally households buy
prudently by comparing prices obtained from several sources and taking into account
the quality and performance of the equipment. Consequently, the households would
be allowed to procure the necessary labor, equipment and materials using these
practices of several sources.
(b)   Boilerhouse owners/operators. A brief assessment of the public and private
procurement practices and market in Slovenia of heating equipment for larger
boilerhouses has confirmed that there is significant competition in Slovenia for the
supply of the heating equipment of all sizes. Both foreign made and locally
manufactured heating equipment is easily available through various competitive
sources in Slovenia. The private operators of boilerhouses follow established
commercial practices for their purchases, which include obtaining several quotations
from suppliers and purchasing the equipment on the basis of its price and
performance. Consequently, the private operators of boilerhouses would be allowed
to use the established commercial practices, subject to their obtaining at least three
quotations.  The public operators of boilerhouses are subject to the Public
Procurement Decree of May 29, 1993. This Decree provides for tendering for
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of DM 6,000 or more for a minimum of
three quotations per tender. This practice has been found acceptable for use by the
public operators of boilerhouses for their purchases under the project. No sub-loan
under this component is expected to exceed DM 250,000.
23.   The FA would manage the flow of funds from EcoFund to beneficiaries (households and
boilerhouse owners/operators). The FA and the EcoFund would ensure that prices obtained by the
beneficiaries following the above-mentioned procurement methods reflect current market prices.
24.   GIC component. The Component includes GIS computer hardware and software packages
(DM730,000); local consultants (DM1,260,000 aggregate); and five large consultant assignments
to be procured internationally (DM3.96 million). These packages would be procured in accordance
with the following procurement methods:
(a)   Procurement of Goods
(i).  International Shopping based on comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers in two different countries for contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of more than DM30,000 but less than DM250,000 each
(aggregate DM 300,000).
(ii). Direct Contracting would be used for four packages (estimated to cost
DM300,000). The justification for direct contracting is upgrading of existing
GIS software and compatibility with the existing equipment.



Annex 3-2                                                                       18
(b)   Procurement of Consultant Services
The Component includes six assignments at a total cost of up to DM 4.72 million. One of
the assignments includes the engagement of the services of local GIS experts (up to
DM1,260,000 aggregate). For the remaining assignments, experienced consulting firms
would be shortlisted and invited to submit proposals.
25.   A list of packages, along with their cost and proposed procurement methods, and an
implementation plan and schedule are shown in Table A4.
26.   Review of Procurement Documents by the Bank.  The Bank would review the
procurement documents as follows:
APA-Component
for the first two loans to be made to households: quotations or pro forma invoices;
for the first two contracts to be concluded with owners/operators of boilerhouses.
GIS-Component
for the first international shopping contract;
for all direct contracts;
for all consultancy assignments and training (see para. 24).
27.   Procurement of Consultant Services and Training. In the case of consulting services and
training, all TORs and selection procedures would apply to all consulting contracts above DM75,000
and for amendments to consulting contracts that raise the contract value to DM75,000 or above for
individual consultants. All assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank,
would also be subject to the Bank's prior review. The Bank's standard bidding documents would
be used for the recruitment of consultants, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to as necessary for purposes of the project.
28.   Since the project does not have an ICB package, no General Procurement Notice would be
published. Slovenia has in force a Procurement Decree and a public procurement law is under
preparation. A country procurement assessment has not been carried out for Slovenia.
29.   Implementation. The EcoFund PIT and the PIT within the MEPP would be responsible
for ensuring that procurement under the respective components is being carried out in accordance
with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The EcoFund PIT includes staff who have experience
in procurement in Bank-financed projects. In addition, two members of the EcoFund PIT attended
a World Bank-organized implementation seminar which included several presentations on
procurement. The seminar was held in Budapest in January 1995. The Ministry of Finance will
assist the PIT in the MEPP in procurement and disbursement. These arrangements are regarded fully



Annex 3-2                                                                       19
satisfactory.
D.   Disbursement Arrangements and Schedules
30.   Disbursements. The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five
years. The closing date would be June 30, 2001. A summary of the disbursement plan is shown in
Table 1.6 below.
Table 1.6 Disbursements by year (DM Million)
IBRD FY                   1997        1998       1999       2000        2001
Annual                     9.5        11.5         8.1        3.4        2.1
Cumulative                 9.5        21.0        29.1       32.5       34.6
31.   Under the APA Component, the sub-loans would finance up to 80% of the costs of
subprojects. In terms of sub-loans of the EcoFund, World Bank funds would cover over 75% and
EcoFund financing 25%.
32.   Flow of Funds under the Project. The EcoFund PIT, which includes a financial expert
(who has been trained in disbursement procedures), would be responsible for making payments to
suppliers of goods and services under the APA Component, for withdrawing funds from the loan,
for managing and replenishing the Special Account, and for keeping up-to-date and accurate project
accounts. The use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be allowed for contracts of less than
DM 400,000 each. For these contracts, there would be no need of sending supporting documents
(i.e., the Contract/Purchase Order, Invoices, Shipment Document, Payment Certificates or Receipts)
to the World Bank. Only a Statement of Expenditures, based on the supporting documents, would
be sent to the World Bank, along with a Withdrawal Application. The supporting documents would
be kept in Slovenia, and would be made available to the Bank staff and auditors upon request for
verification and audit. To facilitate timely project implementation, EcoFund would establish,
maintain and operate under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account. The
authorized allocation of the Special Account would be initially DM 4 million. However, when the
aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of DM 6 million, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of DM5 million by submitting the
relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every
three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
33.   Under the APA Component, the beneficiaries will submit purchase order, invoices, vouchers
and receipts to FA. The FA would verify these documents and prepare Statements of Expenditure



Annex 3-2                                                                     20
and submit them to the PIT for verification and payment. The FA would have the option of paying
the suppliers from its resources and then ask the PIT for reimbursement through the SOEs or ask the
PIT to pay the suppliers directly on the basis of the information that would be provided in the SOEs.
The FA would ensure that it maintains in its files all the supporting documents, along with a copy
of the SOE. The PIT would check the SOE, make payment to the FA or to suppliers directly at FA's
request from the Special Account and would use the SOE for preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications to the World Bank for disbursements of funds against the SOEs.
34.   For the GIS-Component, the MEPP will submit the signed contracts for goods and
consultants to the Ministry of Finance. This unit would make payments to suppliers and use the
contracts, purchaser orders, invoices, bills, shipping documents, payments receipts, etc., for
preparing SOEs for obtaining funds from the Loan Account.
E.    Audits and Reporting
35.   Project Audits. Project Accounts for both Components, the Special Account, the EcoFund
accounts in general, and the APAP records of the financial agent will be audited by an independent
auditor, acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1992). EcoFund will
provide to the Bank (within six months of the end of each financial year), an audit report of the
Project accounts for the APA component and the Ministry of Finance for the GIC component of such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion on disbursements
against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The separate opinion should mention whether
the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications. In
addition, the EcoFund will prepare financial forecasts.
36.   Furthermore, in its contract with the selected FA, the EcoFund will ensure that the auditors
would cover in their audit the APAP-related records and that they would report on their findings as
part of their Annual Audit Report.
37.   Reporting and Annual Reviews. The PITs will prepare semi-annual descriptive and
financial reports on each respective project component, objective and activity (beginning from the
date of Loan Effectiveness). The reports will describe: (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any, from
the implementation plan; and (c) the reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
These reports will be based on the quarterly status reports to be submitted by the FA for the APA
Component and by the Ministry of Finance for the GIC component. Bank supervision will be based
on the semi-annual progress reports.
38.   The EcoFund will regularly review the selected FA's APAP-related performance and will
report to the Bank on the same by September 30 (covering the period January to June) and March
31 (covering the period July to December) each year.



Annex 3-2                                                                             21
Figure A 1:                  Organization of Project Implementation
WORLD BANK
LOAN
APAF-Component                                     GIS-Component
EcoFund                                            MEPP
Project                                           Project
Implementation                                    Implementation
Team                                             Team
APA-Component
Financial Agent
(Commercial Bank)
Sub-borrowers   |              Sub-borrowers
(Households)    l    l     eroseOwne oJOp.)
Washington. D C., Jan. 17, 1996



Table Al Component 1: Air pollution abatement program costs                                                                                      >
(Slovenian Tolars Million)                                          (DM million)                                      x
Subloan              Local         Foreign           Total  % of base cost          Local          Foreign           Total  % of base cost
category
Households           1,189.97        1,784.95        2,974.92          73.75            14.75          22.13           36.88           73.75
Boilerhouse            423.55          635.32        1,058.87          26.25            5.25            7.88           13.13           26.25
owners
TOTAL                1,613.52        2,420.28        4,033.80                          20.00           30.00           50.00
Washmgto. D.C.. Jan . 17, 1996



Annex 3-2                                                                                                                                                        23
Table A2  GIS Component: Project Costs
SIT Million                                      DM Million
Pro-ject Ftezlen,                                     (.0(a)         Foreign           7()rN,          Local           Foreign          Total          o Of Toral Raoe Cost
1. GOODS
GIS/ I Uii Scr-er &WS                                       I 51            7 50            9 01             0.02             0 09            0 11                   2 03
- Upgrade of UiIx Serser
Uttin decelopment WS (2,
Ilnstallanlon                                                                        .               _          _
GIS/2 DOS Computer Hardware                                3.26            15.97           19.23             0 04             0 20            0.24                   4.42
Applications WS (DOS) (4)
- Scanning WS
- Graphic WS (DOS)I2)
- PlDoIer A4
- Installation
GIS/3 Plotter AO (Upgrade) by original Supplier            0.50             2.82            3.32              0.01            0.04            0.05                   0.92
GIS/4 Netmork HW                                            1.38            6.94            8.32             0.02             0.09            0.11                   2.03
Network Router 116 lines)
Modem Router (16 ines)
- Net Manager
_ Installation
GIS/5 Systems SW                                            1.15            7.66            8.81             001              0.10            0.11                   2.03
- Oracle DB
-SQLNET
Oracle Pertormance Monitor
Installation
G)S16 Applcatotis SW                                        1.21            7.90            9.11              0.01            0.10            0.11                   2.03
- DOS Graphics SW
tUNIX Graphics SW
TOTAL GOODS                                                9.01            48.79           57.S0             0.11             0.62            0.73                  13.44
11. CONSULTANT SERVICES
GIS;7 Local GIS sysiems
management eXper5s (Year I + 2)                            11.22           84.79           96.01             0.17             1.07             1.24                 22.84
Project Coordmnator
Slatidardizatton and QA
Data VertfLcat2ost
DBMS Manager
GIS/8 Foreign GIS Systems nianagemeni                      5 17            47.60           52.77             0.06             0.59            0.65                  11.97
experts (Year I +2)
Projtct Hanager
- GIS Specialist
GIS/9 Training by hired foreign expertu (Yr 7)             4.10            43.46           47.56             0.05             0.54            0.59                  10.S7
-Instructors                                              1.77           13.11           14.88             0.02             0.16            0. 8                   3.31
Tsips and Accommodation                                 0.64             4.84            5.4S             0.01             0.06            0.07                   1.29
- Site Prep. & Maerials                                  1759 |          23.39 |         24.98             0.021            0.291           0.31                   5.711
- Commun-calion CosIs (Inierniet)                        0.10             2.12            2.22             0.00             0.03            0.03                   0.55
GIS/10 Data Colleccions  Koper RegiotI                     8.44            50.29           58.74             0.10             0.62            0.72                  13.31
- Management                                             5.02             5.48           10.50             0.06             0.07            0.13                   2.35
Dtgtirzing & Editing SW                                 0 16             2.99            3.15             0.00             0.03            0.03                   0.63
- Map ConVers,on                                         3.26            41.82           45.08             0.04             0.52            0.56                  10.33
GIS/I I Maribor Region                                    17 07            46.38           63.45             0.10             0.57            0.67                  12.27
- Management                                             5 31            13.2S           18.59             0.06             0.16            0.23                   4.14
- Digitizing & Eduitig SW                                0.17 7           3.17 |          3.34             0.00             0.04            0.04                   0.66
- Map ConVersion                                       1 .59            29.93           41.53             0.04             0.37            0.41                   7.46
GIS/12 Ljubljana Region                                   12.88            42.06           54.94             0.26             0.57            0.82                  15.1S
Management                                              5 02            12.54           17.55             0.06             0.15            0.21                   3.91
- Digitizing & Editing SW                                0.16 |           2.99 |          3.15             0.001            0.031           0.03                   0.63
- Map Conversion                                         7 70            26.53           34.23             0.20             0.38            0.5S                  10.64
TOTAL CONSULTANCIES                                       58.S8           314.58          373.46            0.74             3.96            4.69                   S6.43
GRAND TOTAL *                                            67.89          363.37          431.26             0.85             4.58            5.42                 100.00
(l) Errors in adding due to rounding.
Ws.'ng-ng  DC M-lt12 'iON



Annex 3-2                                           24
t~~  g28i. 
ss~~~ 0 K0t 
$   t|      |   3i0



Annex 3-2                                                                                                                                                    25
Table A4: GIS Procurement Plan and Schedule
Paynmeor year
Darripfhso           Ege   Cof         moen    Doctwnentj   Submijuion    CO#Uracl  Completion    1996            1997      1998
DM)       Method       Issurd      offerslprvps    awarded
L GOOI-
LIS/ Unix Smwu& WS                  110        DC        02)01/97      02115197     03/01/97    06/01/97                 X
- UpYad od Unix Serve
* Unix D lveopwnl WS (2)
- ImaaflaeIn
GM/ DOS C_mpxer Hardwa              240         IS       02A)1/97      02/20/97     03/15/97   06/01197                  X
- Appimcom WS (DOS)
- Scumin  WS
- Grapic WS (DOS) (2)
UPS
Pblans A4
GIS13 Par   AO (Upgral)            50.0        DC        03101/97      03/15/97     04/01/97    09/01/97                 X
by orinimil sgipisr
GIS/4 Netwk                        110.0        IS       10101/97       10/20/97     11/10/97   03101/98                           X
NfwxrkRousr (16 lihm)
_Rousr (I1 lion)
- NnMager
- ImuaSlaen
GII/S Sw         SW                110.0        DC       04101/97      04/15/97     05/10/97    10101197                 X
Orneb D
.SQLNKFT
-Orac paodarar c mambo,
GUM App_a.SW                       110.0       DC        06101/97      06/15/97     07/10/97    12/31/97                 X
- DOS Grapbl SW
- Unix GrOaphi SW
TOTAL GOODS                        736.0
Not: DC - Dfx   4acuir
IS - Imm,nrAdcl shoplapg
WxuhIqm. D.C.. Ji. 17. 1"6



Annex 3-2                                                                                                                                                           26
Table A4: GIS Procurement Plan and Schedule (contd)
Pavnieni tear
Esumataf   Pocure Dori.,enins    Submission~    Contraet
Description of pacLage      Coratrlred (    len; ,     Issuea'     offers/props    nii-99rded
D/iJ)     method-
It. CONSULTANT SERVICES
GIS17 Local Iidividual GIS
Systems Managemeist Experts             1.240     SL        09Q25/96       10/15/96      (0/30196    12101/98                            x
(Year I)
System & Network Maiager
DBMS Manager
Programminig Maiager (2)
Operaions Manager
GIS/8 Foreign GIS Systems                650      SL        051/          06115/96      06130196    12/01198
Management Experts (Year I & 2           6
Project Manager
- GIS Specialist
- Programming Specialist
Trips and Accommodation
GIS/9 Training by Hired Foreign          590      SL        10/01/96       11/01/96     11/20/96    12101/97                  X
Experts (Year 1)
- Intructors
- Trips and Accommodation
Site Prep. & Materials
- Communication Coals (Internet)
GIS/10 Data Coliection - Koper           720      SL        05/01197      05/15/97      06/01/97    04/01/98                            X
- Management
- Diitizing & Editing SW
- Map Conversion
GIS/II Maribor Reion                     670      SL        07/01/97      07/15/97      08/01197    06/01/9t                            X
- Management
- Digitizing & Editing SW
- Map Conversion
GIS/12 LWubUana Region                   130      SL        10/01/97      10/15/97      11101/97    11/01/9e                            X
- Management
- Digizinig & Editing SW
- Map Convenion
TOTAL CONSULTANCIES                    4,700
GRAND TOTAL                            5,430
Note: SL - Short List
WSslnn. D C.. Mar0 I2. sIas



Annex 3-2                                                                                      27
Table A5: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
World Bank        Quarter Ending                           Disbursemenits
Fiscal Year                                           DM Million Equivalent
APA                  GIS            Cumulative
Component           Component
quarterly  curnul.  quarterly  cumul.     quart.  cumul.
97         September    1996         2.00    2.00  1     0.40    0.40         2.40    2.40
December    1996          1.00    3.00        0.40    0.80        1.40    3.80
March        1997        3.00    6.00         0.40    1.20        3.40    7.20
June         1997        2.00    8.00         0.30    1.50        2.30    9.50
98         September    1997         3.00   11.00  1     0.40    1.90         3.40   12.90
December    1997          1.00   12.00        0.40    2.30        1.40   14.30
March        1998        3.00   15.00|        0.40    2.70  I     3.40   17.70
June         1998        3.00   18.00  1      0.30    3.00        3.30   21.00
99         September    1998         2.00   20.00        0.30    3.30         2.30   23.30
December    1998          1.00   21.00        0.30    3.60        1.30   24.60
March        1999        2.00   23.00  1      0.30    3'90        2.30   26.90
June         1999        2.00   25.00  1      0.20    4.10        2.20   29.10
2000         September    1999         0.50   25.50        0.20    4.30         0.70   29.80
December    1999         0.50   26.00         0.20    4.50        0.70   30.50
March        2000         1.10   27.10       0.10    4.60         1.20   31.70
June         2000        0.80   27.90                             0.80   32.50
01         September    2000         0.80   28.70                             0.80   33.30
December    2000         0.20   28.90                             0.20   33.50
March        2001        1.00   29.90                             1.00   34.50
June         2001        0.10   30.00                             0.10   34.60
Washington, D.C., Jan. 18, 1996
The Project completion date would be December 31, 2000
and the closing date would be June 30, 2001.



Annex 3-2                                                                            28
Annex 3-2, Attachement 1:
Draft Terms of Reference - Local Consultants
1.    The "Local Consultants" would assist (help) PIT in decisions in the fields of:
-     topography
-     land cadastre
-     land use planning processes
-     register of real estate
-     environment protection
-     quality assurance
-     standardization
-     data collection
2.    "Local Consultants" is a team of individual consultants/companies/one company/generally
recognized in Slovenia and recognized by PIT to be one of the leading subjects (specialists) in the
requested field of expertise.
3.    The "Local Consultants" role is to:
-     prepare expertises necessary for the implementation of the project.
-     assist PIT and PM in discussions with foreign consultants.
-     assist PIT in technical questions hardware/software communications.
-     assist PIT in decision making in the particular fields of expertise.
-     assist PIT to define the processes of the components.
-     assist PIT to define data (layers) for the implementation of the components.
-     assist PIT and component managers in implementing component projects.
-     define data flows and data exchange procedures.
-     define the entities, structure and the objects (object catalogue) of the data layers.
-     define data acquisition specifications.
-     define standards for Quality Assurance procedures.
-     define data maintenance procedures and requests.
-     control, assist and verify data collecting process.
-     help PIT to define the role between GIC of the Republic of Slovenia, local GICes, data
owners and data users.
-     help PIT to define rules for consistent access, use and pricing policy.
-     assist PIT and local managers in preparation of tender materials for component bidding



Annex 3-2                                                                                   29
process.
-      identificate education issues.
-      assist and help in implementation of training procedures.
-      prepare Slovenian standards on spatial data object catalog and data acquisition process.
-      prepare internal (MEPP) standards on procedures in the field of land use planning.
C:\DATA\WB\SLO-ENV\SAR\SA-X3-2.WPD
April 22. 1996



Anmex 3-2                                                                             30
Annex 3-2, Attachement 2:
Draft Terms of Reference for Foreign Management (FM) (Foreign Consultants)
1.    Foreign consultants will be used to help PM and PIT in the management of the project,
to assist in technical decisions and in database management and in general geoinformatics
decisions, to suggest and support decisions in various fields of the project such as topography,
land cadastre, land use planning processes, real estate, quality assurance procedures,
standardization, data collection.
2.    For all tasks, one internationally recognized company will be selected.  Individual
consultants will be invited to Slovenia occasionally, depending on the dynamics of the project, but
in general assignments are expected every 30 days for 5-10 days for 2 consultants.
3.    Terms of reference for foreign consultants are to:
-     help in promotion and explanation of the project.
-     assist and support PM in overall general management of the project.
-     assist PM and PIT in preparation bidding documents, terms of reference.
-     assist PM and PIT in preparation of documentation required by the WB (reports).
-     assist PM and PIT in financial questions.
-     assist PIT in technical implementation of the project.
-     advise and assist PIT in the fields of:
-     topography
-     land cadastre
-     land use planning processes
-     register of real estate
-     quality assurance
-     standardization
-     data collection.
-     make to PIT attention and acquaintance of foreign examples.
-     suggest and assist PIT in making decisions.
-     suggest transfer of foreign principles and solutions in building Slovenian geoinformation
infrastructure.
-     suggestions on the role of government and private sector.
-     suggestions of the role of legislation and support in establishing.
-     suggestions on access policy on databases.
-     clarifying the questions of financing/fees of a system.
-     transfer and compliance of technical standards with foreign standards.
-     establishment of quality assurance procedures.
April 22, 1996 / C:\DATA\WB\SLO-ENV\SAR\SA-X3-2.WPD



Annex 3-2                                                                             31
Annex 3-2, Attachement 3:
Draft Terms of Reference of the Training Center (TC)
1.    The training facilities (the office and appropriate facilities) are only in Ljubljana, but the
courses may be organized also elsewhere, using local facilities for the duration of courses. The
goal is to spread the knowledge of geoinformation principles, to educate technical staff in the GIC
RS and regional centers and to educate subjects of the geoinformation infrastructure in institutional
(organizational) questions.
2.    In Slovenia we will have only one training center. It will organize training courses for the
MEPP staff, the PIT and for the staff in the areas, that are subject of the project (Koper,
Ljubljana, Maribor).
3.    It will also prepare training courses in other areas (municipalities), where the interest for
establishment of local GIS centers is emerging (at the moment the interest is shown in Novo
Mesto, Hrastnik, Krsko, Nova Gorica).
4.    The training center will prepare materials for courses and organize the implementation of
courses using local and foreign experts and using distance learning methods and technology. The
training center will identify training objectives and develop courses of various duration covering:
-     the concept of geoinformation infrastructure.
-     institutional building of geoinformation infrastructure.
-     organizational aspect of setting up local centers.
-     management of central and local GIC centers.
-     implementation of local centers.
-     marketing, pricing policy.
-     development of market awareness.
-     access and use of data via telecommunication infrastructure.
-     standardization of data and procedures.
-     QA procedures.
-     data conversion, data maintenance issues.
April 22, 1996 1 C:\DATA\WB\SLO-ENV\SAR\SA-X3-2.WPD



ANNEX 3-3
MONITORING INDICATORS
Environmental Indicators
1.    Development of air quality in cities where the APA component is carried out
Subloans
1.    Households and boilerhouse owner applications
2.    Geographical distribution of applications
3.    Type of replaced equipment
4.    Type of equipment to be financed
5.    Duration for loan processing (min/max/average)
6.    Loans granted for (i) households and boilerhouse owners/operators
EcoFund Performance
1.    Quarterly Disbursements - for APAP and for other activities
2.    Loans outstanding
3.    Debt-equity ratio
4.    Bad debts
5.    Provisions for bad debts
6.    Disbursement forecasts
7.    Financial Forecasts
GIS Component
1.    Procurement progress
2.    Disbursement progress
3.    Utilization of GIS equipment
4.    Decentralization of National Geo-Information Infrastructure
5.    Development of standards for the National Geo-Information Infrastructure
HSchreiber
8 March 1996
M:\SCHR,EIBE\SILOV-SAR\SAR_WP61\SA-X3-3.WPD



ANNEX 4-1
References
Ayres, W. and J. Dixon. 1995. "Economic and Ecological Benefits of Reducing Emissions
of Sulfur Oxides in the Sostanj Region of Slovenia." Environment Dept. Paper 9.
World Bank, Environmentally Sustainable Development, Environment Department,
Pollution and Environmental Economics Division, Washington, D.C.
Dockery, D., C. Pope, X. Xu, J. Spengler, J. Ware, M. Fay, B. Ferris, and F. Speizer.
1993. "An Association between Air Pollution and Mortality in six U.S. Cities." New
England Journal of Medicine 329 (24): 1753-9. This article also refers to 18 earlier
studies.
Hydrometeorological Institute of Slovenia. 1992. Water Quality in Slovenia, Year 1991.
Ljubljana.
Ostro, B. 1994. "Estimating the Health Effects of Air Pollutants: A Method with an
Application to Jakarta." Policy Research Working Paper 1301. World Bank, Policy
Research Department, Public Economics Division, Washington, D.C.
Ostro, B. 1992. "Estimating the Health Effects of Air Pollutants: A Method with an
Application to Jakarta. " (niimeo). World Bank, Policy Research Department, Public
Econonmics Division, Washington, D.C.
Posel, F. 1994. "Air Pollution in the City of Maribor and in Slovenia: Review of Impacts
and Results." Paper presented at the Budapest Environment Symposium, September.
World Health Organization. 1987. Air Quality Guidelines for Europe. WHO Regional
Publications, European Series 23. Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen.
M:\SCHREIBE\SLOV-SAR\SAR WP61\SA-X4-1 WPD



ANNEX 4-2
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR THE
AIR POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROGRAM
Financial projections. Table A4-2. 1 gives the key assumptions underlying the financial
projections, and Table A4-2.2 shows the financial projections for the multi-city eight year lending
program.
Ni \SCHREIBE\SLOV-SAR\SAR_WP61\SA-X4-2.WPD



Table A4-2.1 Key assumptions
Interest rate on APAP loans                        percent per annum              6.75
World Bank commitment fee                          percent per annum              0.25
World Bank interest rate                           percent per annum              4.75
EcoFund interest rate                              percent per annum              4.75
Interest margin on APAP loan                       percent per annum              2.00
Interest rate on APAP reserves (= DM LIBOR)        percent per annum              4.50
Insurance fee for household loans                 percent of loan amount           2.5
Loan origination fees
Individual loans                                 DM                               75
Boiler house loans                               DM                              150
Annual administration fees
Individual loans                                 DM/year                          55
Boiler house loans                               DM/year                         115
Loan repayment periods
Individual loans                               years                              6
Boiler house loans                             years                             10
World Bank loan                                years                             10
EcoFund loan                                   years                             10
Loan grace periods
World Bank loan                                years                              5
Eco-Fund loan                                  years                              8
Monthly repayments for a loan of DM 1000
Individual loans                                DM                             16.93
Boiler house loans                              DM                             11.48
APAF staff & operating costs
Up to year 4                                   thousand DM/year                 200
Years 5 to 8                                   thousand DM/year                 100
Year 9 onwards                                 thousand DM/year                  20
Washington, D.C., March 7. 1996



Table A4-2.2 Financial Projections for Air Polution Abatement Component: Eight-Year Lending Program
Year
Unit   Av. loan   0      1     2      3     4      5      6     7      8      9     10    11    12    13    14    15
size (DM)
Loan approvals
lndividual conversions   Number       5,000         2,000  3,000  2,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  0      0      0      0     0      0      0
Boiler house conversions  Number    120,000           20    30    20    10    10    10    10    10           0     0      0      0     0      0      0
Lending
IMnividual conversions   DM million                 10.00  15.00  10.00   5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00  0      0     0      0      0     0      0
Boiler house conversions  DM miflion                 2.40   3.60   2.40   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20  0      0     0      0      0     0      0
Total                    DM million                 12.40  18.60  12.40   6.20   6.20   6.20   6.20   6.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Loan Portfolio at end of year
Individual conversions   Number                     2,000  5,000  7,000  8.000  9,000 10,000  9,000  7,000  5,000  4,000  3,000  2,000  1,000  0     0
Boiler house conversions  Number                      20    50    70    80    90   100   110   120   120   120   100    70    50    40    30
World Bank Loan
Disbursements            DM million                  9.30  13.95   6.75   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Cumulative disbursements    DM million               9.30  23.25  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00  30.00
Undisbursed at year end  DM million          30.00  20.70   6.75   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Loan service             DM million                  0.11   0.61   1.18   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31
Balance at year end      DM million                  9.30  23.25  30.00  28.09  26.10  24.00  21.81  19.51  17.10  14.57  11.93   9.15   6.24   3.19   0.00
Eco-Fund Loan
Disbursements            DM million                  3.10   4.65   2.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Cumulative disbursements  DM million                 3.10   7.75  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00
Undisbursed at year end  DM million          10.00   6.90   2.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Repayments of principal  DM million                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Balance at year end      DM million                  3.10   7.75  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00   9.00   8.00   7.00   6.00   5.00   4.00   3.00
Eco-Fund: Advance to income account
Outstanding advance      DM million           1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
APAP Reserves
Capital reserves         DM million                  0.39   2.57   3.68   1.78   1.00   1.42   2.61   2.80   6.39   8.51   9.78   9.82   8.49   5.85   2.20
Income account           DM million           1.00   0.59  0.52   0.84   0.47   1.13   1.76   2.36   2.92   3.47   3.93   4.30   4.61   4.88   5.13   5.39
Total reserves           DM million                  0.98   3.09   4.52   2.25   2.12   3.18   4.97   5.72   9.86  12.45  14.08  14.44  13.37  10.98   7.59



Table A4-2.2 Financial Projections for Air Pollution Abatement Component: Eight-Year Lending Program (contd)
Year
Unit                 0       1     2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15
Loan Balances at year end
Individual loans          DM million                   9.66  22.71  28.70  28.19  26.59  23.85  20.38  17.97  12.41   8.29   4.94   2.40   0.74   0.00   0.00
Boiler house conversions  DM million                   2.36   5.71   7.62   8.13   8.51   8.74   8.82   8.74   7.30   5.76   4.21   2.92   2.02   1.35   0.80
Total                     DM million                  12.01  28.43  36.32  36.32  35.10  32.59  29.20  26.71  19.71  14.06   9.15   5.33   2.75   1.35   0.80
Operating Income
Interest income: loans    DM million                   0.21   1.10   2.06   2.46   2.44   2.33   2.14   1.92   1.68   1.23   0.86   0.55   0.31   0.16   0.08
Interest income: reserves  DM million                  0.00   0.04   0.14   0.20   0.10   0.10   0.14   0.22   0.26   0.44   0.56   0.63   0.65   0.60   0.49
Total                     DM million                   0.21   1.14   2.20   2.66   2.54   2.43   2.28   2.15   1.94   1.68   1.42   1.18   0.96   0.76   0.58
Expenditures
Additional staff, etc     DM million                   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02
Defaults                  DM million                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Commitment fee on Bank loan  DM million                0.23   0.16   0.05   0.00   0 00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0).00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Interest on Bank loan     DM million                   0.11   0.61   1.18   1.40   1.31   1.22   1.11   1.01   0.90   0.78   0.66   0.53   0.40   0.26   0.11
Interest on Eco-Fund loan  DM million                  0.08   0.25   0.44   0.52   0 48   0.48   0.48   0.48   0.46   0.42   0.37   0.32   0.27   0.23   0.18
Total                     DM million                   0.62   1.21   1.88   2.03   1.89   1.79   1.69   1.58   1.38   1.22   1.05   0.87   0.69   0.51   0.31
Net Operating Income        DM million                   -).41  -0.07   0.32   0.63   0.65   0.64   0.59   (1.56  (1.55   0.46   0.37   0.31   0.27   0.25   0.26
Waslhinglton, DC. March 6. 1996






13]Cl30't                                                                                                1t                                  10                5                   o~ J130                                                             17X00
2   ,    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~  r~~~A. b-d. .....f 
A        U     5    T    R    I   A!                                                                                                     t 
~~~ ?29 revXsA - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s 43ribor __ _ . t sr so 1u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1-
r T.                                                                  -L  X  o   -   ,, rj, O&  
~ i3  X  f3RA, 4;;_ _   ^ y  ; t _    <S LOVEN IA                                                                                                                                                                        ,
- /'/ <~~~~~~< ~~~ ;~Sk..                                                                                                                                                                  MiCNDA ROAOS        o            SELECTED CITIES
5  d   )  \   c       n          c                 I                        nico                               2                              i~~~~~~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AILROADS  - -INTERNATIO3NAL 30UNDARIES  ^i1oo 
13-3C-.   I4'CO'                   - - -o 1^'3C'                              150C                                15;33'                               T503~~~~~~ N- Mes_ D''W  L.  'j'    tRD
Golt  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i V-ce ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ P1  W









IMAGING
Report No:       14978 SLO
Type: SAR



