Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4022 SLO
Loan Agreement
(Environment Project - Air Pollution Abatement Program)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENVIRONMENTAL FUND OF SLOVENIA
Dated June 18, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4022 SLO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ENVIRONMENTAL FUND OF SLOVENIA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“APAP” means the Air Pollution Abatement Program of the Borrower 
established on July 21, 1995;
(b)
“Statutes” means the statutes of the Borrower dated July 28, 1994.
(c)
“Operating Manual” means the operating manual, including the Project 
Implementation Plan, of the Borrower setting forth, inter alia, the procedures, terms 
and conditions pursuant to which each Financial Agent shall administer Sub-loans on 
behalf of the Borrower;
(d)
“Financial Agent” means Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor or any other 
financial institution selected by the Borrower on the basis of criteria acceptable to 
the Bank to act as a financial agent of the Borrower for purposes of administering 
Sub-loans out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(e)
“Financial Administration Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Borrower and a Financial Agent referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(f)
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team referred to in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement;
(g)
“Eligible Municipality” means any municipality in a local air basin where 
a proposed Sub-project is located where: (i) the average level of either sulfur 
dioxide or black smoke during the heating season over the period 1990 through 1995, as 
measured by monitoring stations within the main urban center or centers of the air 
basin, was at least 50 micrograms per cubic meter; or (ii) the air basin is of special 
significance because it includes either a national park, or major tourist sites, or a 
concentration of health care facilities;
(h)
“Beneficiary” means a household or a boilerhouse owner or operator which 
is the recipient of a Sub-loan;
(i)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary provided under a Sub-loan Agreement to 
finance a Sub-project;
(j)
“Sub-loan Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower and a 
Beneficiary entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as amended 
from time to time;
(k)
“Sub-project” means a project to be carried out by a Beneficiary to 
convert to cleaner fuels or heating systems (natural gas, district heating, liquid 
petroleum gas, low sulfur oil, heat pumps, solar energy) from dirty fuels or heating 
systems (coal, wood, other solid fuels, heavy oil);
(l)
“PM\0510” means particulate matter, with particles less than 10 microns in 
diameter;
(m)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(o)
“fiscal year” means the period January 1 through December 31. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million Deutsche Mark (DEM 30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
DEM a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Mark 
for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn, upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
Page  4
the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering and financial practices and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide, or provide through one or more Financial 
Agents, to Beneficiaries the proceeds of the Loan under Sub-loan Agreements, with 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include those set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and in accordance with the Operating Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into a Financial Administration Agreement with 
each Financial Agent, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
provision for the payment of fees by the Borrower to each said Financial Agent as set 
forth in paragraph 7 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Financial 
Administration Agreement and shall cause each Financial Agent to exercise its rights 
under each Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank, 
the Borrower and said Financial Agent and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive the Financial Administration Agreement or any provision thereof and 
shall cause said Financial Agent not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the PIT with 
qualified and experienced staff, satisfactory to the Bank, including a team leader and 
two professional staff, to manage the APAP.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31 of each calendar year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 1997, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of paragraph 8 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
Page  5
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, and shall maintain or cause each Financial Agent to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall and shall cause each Financial Agent to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year, audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall and 
shall cause each Financial Agent to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make available from its own resources funds 
allocated to the APAP in an amount of up to DEM 500,000 to cover the accumulated 
income account deficit of the APAP.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under any Financial Administration Agreement.
(b)
The Operating Manual shall have been amended so as to affect materially 
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or the ability 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under any Financial Administration 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the  Borrower will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
The Guarantor, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken: (i) any actions which shall adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the performance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under any Financial 
Administration Agreement; or (ii) any action for the dissolution or disestablishment 
of the Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events specified in Section 
5.01 (a), (b) or (d) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified as a condition to the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, namely, that the Borrower shall have appointed the staff for the PIT 
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Director of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Environmental Fund of Slovenia
Page  7
Trg republike 3
61000 Ljubljana
Slovenia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
ENVIRONMENTAL FUND OF SLOVENIA
By /s/ Ljubo Zuzek
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the Loan
     Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category 
  DEM Equivalent)
to be Financed 
Sub-loans 
    30,000,000
75%
   ___________
TOTAL
    30,000,000
    ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
 in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of DEM 3,000,000, may be made for Sub-loans before that date but after July 
1, 1995.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for Sub-loans not exceeding the equivalent of DEM 400,000 
each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  8
The objective of the Project is to reduce ambient concentration of PM10 and 
sulfur dioxide along with health damage associated with exposure to air pollution.
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective, 
namely, the financing of Sub-projects through Sub-loans to households and boilerhouse 
owners or operators in Eligible Municipalities to convert to cleaner fuels and heating 
systems from dirty fuels and heating systems.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
         Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
      (Expressed in Deutsche Mark)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2001
through June 15, 2011
   1,500,000
________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Deutsche Marks to be repaid, 
except as 
provided in Section 4.04 of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
The Borrower shall review with the Bank, not later than January 31 of each year: 
(a) the list of Eligible Municipalities in light of current information on ambient air 
quality and thereafter adjust said list as agreed with the Bank; and (b) the terms and 
conditions of Sub-loans set forth below and thereafter adjust said terms and 
conditions as agreed with the Bank. 
Page  9
1.
The amount of each Sub-loan shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) of the 
estimated cost of each Sub-project. Each Beneficiary shall make available from its own 
resources not less than twenty percent (20%) of the cost of each Sub-project.
2.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be denominated and be the equivalent in Deutsche Mark (DEM) (determined as of the date 
or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on 
account of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan.
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a margin of not more than 2%. The Borrower shall, 
not later than January 31, 1999, review with the Bank said margin in light of the 
operating results of the Project and thereafter adjust said margin taking into account 
said operating results.
4.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, each Sub-loan to a 
Beneficiary which is a household shall be in an amount not to exceed DEM 12,500, and 
each Sub-loan to a Beneficiary which is a boilerhouse owner or operator shall be in an 
amount not to exceed DEM 600,000.
5.
For each Beneficiary which is a household, the term of the Sub-loan shall be not 
more than six years.
6.
For each Beneficiary which is a boilerhouse owner or operator, the term of the 
Sub-loan shall be not more than ten years.
7.
Fees shall be as follows:
(a)
Each Beneficiary which is a household shall pay: (i) a loan origination 
fee of DEM 75, and (ii) a loan insurance fee of 1.8% of the Sub-loan amount for each 
Sub-loan with a repayment term of up to three years and 2.5% for each Sub-loan with a 
repayment term of more than three years.
(b)
Each Beneficiary which is a boilerhouse owner or operator shall pay to 
the Financial Agent a loan origination fee of DEM 150.
(c)
Each Beneficiary shall pay to the Financial Agent an annual 
administration fee of DEM 55 for each Sub-loan to a Beneficiary which is a household 
and DEM 115 for each Sub-loan to a Beneficiary which is a boilerhouse owner or 
operator.
8.
Sub-loans shall be provided on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, through 
the Sub-loan Agreements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial, environmental and ecological standards;
(b)
require that:
(i)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be 
procured, in the case of each Beneficiary which is a 
household, in accordance 
with commercial practices satisfactory to the 
Bank; in the case of each 
Beneficiary which is a boilerhouse owner 
or operator not subject to the 
Guarantor’s public procurement 
legislation, in accordance with established 
commercial practices 
satisfactory to the Bank; and in the case of all other 
Beneficiaries, in accordance with the Guarantor’s public procurement 
legislation;
(ii)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively for the 
Sub-project; 
Page  10
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods and plants included in the Sub-project, the operation 
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that:
(i)
the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such 
insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with 
sound business practices; and
(ii)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover the 
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
Beneficiary to 
replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the Sub-project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
the Sub-loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to DEM 5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to DEM 
4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of DEM 6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  11
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
Page  12
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
