Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25777
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 23.2 SDR(US$32 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
APRIL 17 2003
Oil, Gas, Mining and Chemicals Department (COCPD)
Madagascar, Comoros, Mauritius and Seychelles (AFC08)
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 29, 2003)
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1 = FMG6,200.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APSM           Mining Sector Promotion Agency
ASM            Artisanal and Small-scale Mining
BAM            Mining Administration Bureau
BPGRM          Mmeral Resources Governance Base
BCCMM          Madagascar Mining Cadastre Bureau
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDD            Community Driven Development
CDP            Community Development Plan
CNM            National Committee on Mines
DCPE           Document Cadre de Politique Economique
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DG             General Director of Mines
DGEM           General Directorate of Energy and Mines
DMG            Mines and Geology Directorate
DIR            Regional Directorate
EA             Environmental Assessment
EIS            Environmental Impact Statement
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
GIS            Geographical Information System
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Agency
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
MEM            Ministry of Energy and Mines
MSRP           Mining Sector Reform Project
NCB            National competitive Bidding
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SEA            Sectoral Environmental Assessment
TA             Technical Assistance
UPCM           Mining Project Implementation Unit
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
ZAES           Special Economic Activity Zone
Vice President:    Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:     Mr. Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Peter Van Der Veen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mr. Paulo de Sa



MADAGASCAR
MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                          19
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      21
6. Social                                                                             22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  26
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         26
2. Other                                                                           26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Surmmary                                                      28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        41
Annex 5: Financial Sumnmary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         63
Annex 11: Letter of Sectoral Policy                                                   65
MAP(S)
IBRD 22395R



MADAGASCAR
MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
COCPD
Date: April 17, 2003                             Team Leader: Paulo De Sa
Sector Manager/Director: Peter A. Van Der Veen   Sector(s): Mining and other extractive (60%), Central
Country Manager/Director: Hafez M. H. Ghanem     government administration (40%)
Project ID: P076245                              Theme(s): Decentralization (P), State enterprise/bank
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  restructuring and privatization (P), Environmental policies
and institutions (S), Civic engagement, participation and
community driven development (S), Small and medium
enterprise support (S)
[lProject Financing Data           .
[ ] Loan    [XI Credit   [ I Grant    [] Guarantee      ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $32.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.0 - 0.5%                       Service charge: 0.75%
FinahncingglPIan,(US$m):  Source           -     -   -      Local        Foreign      .  Total'
BORROWER                                                       4.45           0.00          4.45
IDA                                                           13.96          18.04         32.00
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       0.00           1.00          1.00
(USAID)
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT                          0.00           1.20          1.20
Total:                                                        18.40          20.24         38.65
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
Unite de Coordination du Proj et Minier (UCPM)
Address: B.P. 280 Ampandrianomby -Antananarivo 101 - Madagascar
Contact Person: RAMAROLAHY Jonasy
Tel: 261.20.22.418.73          Fax: 261.20.22.418.73          Email: mem.prsm@dts.mg
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       21004      205       2006 -     2007 o2008-          2009
Annual      0.27      3.85       5.50      6.80       7.50       7.20      0 88
Cumulative     0.27      4.12       9.62      16.42     23.92      31.12      32.00
Project implementation period: 2003 - 2008 (5 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 08/15/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government of Madagascar in implementing its
strategy to accelerate sustainable development and reduce poverty in Madagascar through the
strengthening of governance and transparency in the management of mineral resources, with special
emphasis on small-scale and artisanal mining.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators are specified in Annex 1. They include:
(i) Strengthening of accountability and transparency in the mining sector:
(a)    Four institutional mechanisms (BAM) established by the government to control tax collection,
environmental issues and smuggling of gemstones.
(b)    Creation of a one-stop shop for exports of gemstones;
(c)    Declared production by legally-established small scale and artisanal miners by 50% by the
mnid-term review and by 100% at the end of the project.
(ii) Key institutional reforms for the decentralized management of mineral resources.
(a)    At least ten community development plans including the management of mineral resources;
(b)    Collection rate of mining royalty increases from 10% today to 50% by mid-term review and 80%
at the end of the project.
(c)    Decentralization of mining administration increases fiscal revenues from mining for provinces
and communes by 50%.
(iii) Promotion of private investments and value added in mining:
(a)    Average annual investments in mining increase from about US$ 10 million today to US$ 30
million by mid-term review, and US$ 85 million at the end of the project;
(b)    Annual declared exports of gold and gemstones from small scale mining increase from about
US$ 21 million today to US$ 30 million by mid-term review, and US$ 50 million at the end of the
project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16249     Date of latest CAS discussion: January 17, 1997
The last Madagascar CAS was presented to the Board in November 1997 and is centered around building
investor confidence in order to unleash Madagascar's export and growth potential. The public sector has a
pivotal role in creating and maintaining an enabling investment climate through the formulation of
adequate policies and the implementation of reforms, while the private sector has been assigned a pivotal
role in sector led growth. A new CAS was initially planned for fiscal year (FY) 02 together with the
presentation of the full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). However, the completion of the PRSP
was delayed due to the political crisis that affected the country. Thus, an interim strategy was put in place
to limit the impact of the crisis on the poor and to support Govemment's recovery program. An interim
Country Assistance Strategy (I-CAS), approved on October 23, 2002, outlines the planned Bank response
to the post-crisis environmnent. A new CAS would be prepared in consultation with the Government and
development partners, to be presented to the Board based on the full PRSP around September 2003.
- 2 -



The Mining Sector Reform Project (MSRP), approved on June 1998, was designed to support
private-sector growth in mining, in line with the CAS' main objective. The MRSP was designed as a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) focusing on legal and regulatory reform, environmental management
and a limited number of pilot projects testing an integrated approach to include small scale and artisanal
mining in the formal economy.
The proposed Mineral Resources Governance Project has strong links to the new I-CAS and the full
PRSP as it will assist Government in launching a series of quick initiatives to improve governance and
enforce anti-corruption measures in the management of mineral resources, one of the most prospective
sectors for broad based economic growth in Madagascar. The I-CAS puts good governance at the core of
the strategy for rapid development in the country, and the new CAS will make the argument that the best
way to support poverty reduction in Madagascar (and the implementation of the PRSP) would be to focus
on improving governance in the country. The PRSP identifies a number of priority reform areas, which
include service delivery improvements through institutional reform and decentralization, improved
governance, and more efficient revenue and expenditure management, in particular in key sectors vital
for poverty reduction (social sectors, agriculture, and mining).
The proposed project targets two of the PRSP's three pillars i.e.(i) the Implementation of a governance
and institutional reform strategy; and (ii) the adoption of policies to attain higher and more sustainable
rates of economic growth that reach the poor, especially in rural areas. To achieve these goals, the project
will focus on the establishment of an adequate regulatory and institutional framework to improve
governance in the management of mineral resources, the promotion of increased value added in mineral
production through private investment, the decentralization of the public administration for the
management of mineral resources, the improvement of tax revenues from the sector, and the
establishment of mechanisms to share the revenues of mining projects with the affected communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world with per capita income of US$260 (in 2000), 70
percent of the population in poverty and half of the children malnourished. After decades of economhic
stagnation and downturn the country has sustained four years of positive real growth and low inflation,
and the public deficit is under control. After having been one of the most rapidly growing African
economies in recent years, Madagascar plunged into a deep political crisis at the beginning of 2002,
following contested first-round elections in December 2001. The political crisis ended in July 2002, but
the social and economic impact is extremely pronounced. The direct negative impact on national income
for 2002 is estimated at half a billion dollars. The total economic cost is probably much larger, taking
into account the loss of confidence, foregone direct investments, foregone exports, physical destruction.
Activity in several sectors, including tourism, transport, export processing industries, and mining came to
an almost complete stop.
Madagascar is very rich in minerals and precious stones and 2300 operators are active in the sector today,
generating direct and stable employment for about 100,000 workers and an additional up to half a million
seasonal jobs. Since 1996, official mining exports have increased from US$16 million to US$37 million
in 2000, largely in precious stones trading. But poor governance and corruption in the sector have
discouraged many formal investors and have led to a smuggling of precious stones out of Madagascar
with very little value added created in the country. Illegal exports are a multiple of official exports and
estimates put the value of trafficking in precious stones ranging from a minimum of $200 million to the
maximum of US$500 million (or 10 percent of GDP) per year. Although severe governance problems
have characterized Madagascar's mining sector for years, the crisis offers the possibility to decisively
reduce illegal activities in the sector. As a result of the crisis as well as anti-corruption announcements
- 3 -



of the Govemment, illegal activities have slowed down and there is now a short window of opportunity
to reverse the situation and promote their integration in the formal economy. Quick action is necessary,
though, before the illegal activities restart in full strength. Also, improving governance in the sector, and
thereby formalizing mining operations, is one of the most important actions to improve internal revenue
generation in Madagascar, much needed to extend basic services and expenditures for anti-poverty
programs.
The Mining Sector Reform Project assisted Government in setting up a legal and regulatory framework
conducive to private investment in the area of mineral resources, in line with its overall policy, defined in
1998 in the Document Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE), whose key objectives are shifting the
role of the State from operator to regulator and promoter of sustainable minerals development, and
opening up of the sector to private, including foreign, investment. Reforms, supported by the MSRP,
include: (i) a new mining code and its regulations, that have established an adequate legal and regulatory
framework to attract private investment into mining, including joint environmental regulations for
mining, published jointly by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy and Mines; (ii) a
special law for large-scale mining investments, defining an attractive special investment regime for FDI
in mining in Madagascar, and providing for a fair share of revenues between the Government and the
private sector, an adequate cut for the Provincial Governments; and (iii) improved governance through
the establishment of a nondiscretionary and transparent system to grant, manage and cancel mining
permits, the Mining Cadastre.
Success in the implementation of these reforms - that were included as sector conditions in the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC H) - triggered the scale-up of the Mining Sector Reform Project,
designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to the current project.
Inspite of the overall improvement in the legal and regulatory framework, Madagascar continues to be
confronted with significant governance issues in small-scale and artisanal mining, namely as a result of a
series of rushes in the gemstones area. The dynamism and complexity of informal small scale mining
activities is aggravated by the deforestation and soil erosion that are a result of frequent cyclones and
slash-and-burn ("tavy") practices, especially on the East coast. According to the Ministry of
Environment, Madagascar has lost 80 percent of its original forest cover, more than half of this in the
past 40 years alone, while deforestation is continuing at a rate of about 200,000 hectares per year.
Between 1987 and 1997 the area under primary forests is reported to have shrunk by one-third. Soil
erosion is estimated at 200-400 tons/ha/year. Soil erosion, associated with an increasing ability to
identify gemstones by the rural population is at the origin of the intensification of the rushes on
semi-precious stones that Madagascar has known over the recent years. Because of a lack of institutional
capacity of the mining administration, the new mining code is not being consistently enforced and, as a
result, most of the small-scale and artisanal mining is being conducted outside the formal channels, with
insufficient linkages to the rest of the economy, damage to environment, social conflicts, and substantial
loss of fiscal revenues.
Government is now seeking to implement a series of measures of strong impact aimed at combating
smuggling and corruption in this area, and creating an enabling environment for the production, trade,
cutting and polishing of gemstones. As part of the project preparation, Government has submitted to the
Bank before negotiations a Letter of Sector Policy including arrangements to improve governance in
small scale mining of gold and gemstones, an action plan for the decentralization of the institutional
framework for the public mining institutions. In addition, aftern negotiations, Government also submitted
an Annex to the Letter of Sector Policy, which includes an action plan and implementation calendar.
The measures to improve governance in the management of mineral resources constitute the core of the
- 4 -



short term policy program of the Government. Among the priority measures that could be implemented
over the one year period are: (i) the establishment of a one-stop shop for mineral exports; (ii) the set-up
of a certification and evaluation infrastructure for gemstones; (iii) the creation of a gemstone exchange in
Antananarivo; and (iv) the launching of a training program in cutting and polishing of gemstones. The
private sector is expected to take the lead in the implementation of all these steps, both through direct
investment in the marketing and cutting of gemstones, and management contracts to run the soon to be
created Gemological Institute of Madagascar, and the gemstone exchange in Antananarivo. These
measures are seen as the fist step for full private sector management and ownership of the sector, and will
be complemented with Govemment efforts and linkages with the main customers of Malagasy gemstones
aiming at regulating the trade of gemstones.
Over the medium term, Government's strategy for the sector is based on the recognition that the
sustainable development of mining can not be achieved without a decentralized administration and a deep
involvement of the affected communities. In concrete terms, this strategy calls for: (i) capacity building
of the Provincial mining administration, with the establishment of a better alignment between core
central public sector functions and the implementation of their mandates at the Provincial level; (ii)
increase of fiscal revenues to the communes, including the decentralization of tax collection; and (Im)
definition of effective ways and means for community empowerment and participation, including the
establishment of public/private partnerships with responsible mining companies willing to invest part of
their profits in human resources capacity building, social, and physical infrastructure. A key element of
this strategy would be the provision of technical assistance to community associations and municipal
governments for the integration of mineral resources management in their participatory development
plans.
The Government is convinced that its central objective of reducing poverty through accelerated growth
can only be accomplished through institutional and administrative reforms that refocus the role of the
State, remove inefficient and discretionary regulations, and build a strong partnership between the State,
the private sector, and the civil society at large. Based on international experience, the proposed project
would look at relevant experiences related to partnerships between mining companies and small scale
mining organizations and/or communities for the delivery of services. These experiences could be of
particular interest and relevance to Madagascar as they provide an opportunity to resolve a number of
existing constraints simultaneously, as mining companies typically provide technical assistance,
infrastructure, and access to markets in these schemes.
In implementing its strategy, Government expects to increase the environmental and social awareness
among the stakeholders involved in minerals development, and obtain a fairer distribution of revenues to
the affected population. A major challenge associated with this strategy is improving good governance
and transparency of revenue expenses by the communes. The focus of the actions to be supported by the
project at the community level includes capacity building for decision making and planning of economic
activities to be implemented with the revenues arising from mining, including conflict resolution and
analysis of alternative economic opportunities, and linkages to other community-driven networks for the
access to "business" services allowing them to benefit from other economic opportunities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The two key sector issues to be addressed by the project are capacity building and improved governance
in the management of mineral resources at the Provincial and the commune levels.
By reducing the discretionary power of Government, increasing transparency, and improving security to
potential investors, the new Mining Code has provided the adequate legislative framework for regulating
-5-



and monitoring large industrial activities in the sector, and to attracting foreign investments into mining.
Of particular importance to provide a sense of security for potential investors is the stabilization of the
legal, fiscal, and institutional arrangements prevailing at the time of the investment.  However,
Government's institutional apparatus has not yet adapted to its new role of regulating economic activities
and promoting poverty reduction in a market-oriented economy. The Government is aware that an
inappropriate institutional framework, weak administrative capacity, and a civil service that lacks
accountability and incentives to adopt up-to-date work practices have contributed to inefficiencies and
mismanagement of public resources, which in turn has restrained the development of a dynamic private
sector. The challenges brought about by this situation will only become more acute in the context of
Government's policy of transfer of competences to the provincial and municipal levels.
An institutional audit was carried out under the Mining Sector Reform Project and a plan for the
reorganization and institutional strengthening of the mining administration at the Central and Provincial
levels has been agreed upon. In the case of mineral resources, the major institutional constraints
identified are: (i) absolute lack of financial resources that prevents the Ministry from monitoring the real
developments in the mining areas; (ii) insufficiency of qualified human resources and lack of technical
skills; (iii) limited availability of geologic information, stored in poor physical conditions; (iv) excessive
centralization at the manager's level and inefficient procedures and flow of information; and (v) poor
relations with other line ministries. The project will support a wide variety of capacity building
measures. At the Govemment level, the measures will focus on improving capacity building for
environmental management of mineral resources and inspection of mining activities at the Provincial
level. Because Government is in no position to provide business development services, the Minister of
Mines is planning to have an extension services agencies - the Promotion Agency (APSM) - organized as
a limited liability company, with private companies as shareholders.
At the municipal level, the strategic choice made by Government is to focus the capacity building on
efforts to increase the tax revenues of the communes through the decentralization of tax collection
mechanisms. A reform of the mining fiscal regime supported by the project (in coordination with the
Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Budget), is expected to substantially increase fiscal revenues from
mining in resource rich communes, and to channel resources directly to them. Empowering local
communities to local management of mineral resources through their integration in CDD-type
development strategies and the preparation of Local Economic Development plans will be an effective
tool in the process of managing economic and social development, and reducing and refocusing the
State's role while creating the conditions for increased private sector participation.
A prerequisite for success in the implementation of this strategy is the urgent strengthening of
governance in the small-scale and artisanal mining sector, namely in the area of gemstones. Small scale
and artisanal mining activities in Madagascar impact a wide range of stakeholder organizations,
institutions and communities. Central Government is thus particularly ill-equipped to deal with the
complexity of the problem. However, with 84 percent of all poor people living in extreme poverty, and
taking into account the overarching poverty reduction goals of the PRSP, there is no doubt that small
scale and artisanal mining has a role to play in linking sector policies with national poverty reduction
goals. A basic constraint to implementing reforms has been the lack of capacity to collaborate among
local governments, private sector and communities in the task of making coordinated decisions. Close
coordination and cooperation among these stakeholders is essential to rationalizing mining activities, and
to avoiding the negative outcomes that accompany current unregulated practices. The immense variation
of Madagascar's geological and environmental conditions implies that there is no standard solution for
the problem. This implies that local institutions and structures should be empowered to directly deal
with the problems they face and propose solutions to which public policy and investments should
respond accordingly. The on-going decentralization process provides a unique opportunity to effectively
- 6 -



put rural communities in the driver's seat and tailor public policy and investments to local reality, thereby
increasing their relevance. The Government has decided to work with 10 pilot municipalities in this
initiative. These communes have been defined at appraisal, in close liasion with the governance, rural
development, environment, and CDD/FID Bank task teams. This definition should be based on
community assessments made by the FID, as well as UNDP experience on capacity building at
community level, in order to review where the communes stand in Community Development Plans, and
public financial management issues.
Lessons learned during the implementation of MSRP have conducted the Govemrnment to choose a new
approach to address these issues based on transparency in the allocation of mining rights, liberalization of
trade and incentives to increase the value added of exports. Three main axes have been included in a
short term program announced by the new Government aimed at improving govemance and reducing
corruption in the area of mineral resources:
a) the fight against fraud and corruption in the commercialization of gemstones: Although the legal and
regulatory framework is attractive to large scale investments, it needs to be adapted to the specificity of
artisanal mining in Madagascar. The procedures for the granting of mining titles need to be simplified to
provide equal opportunity in the access to mineral resources to the poor miners, while the marketing and
commercialization mechanisms need to be completely revamped, as they provide incentives to
speculators, not to those that actually mine the resources. Transparency in the commercialization of
gemstones will be promoted through the simplification of administrative procedures, and the creation of a
one-stop shop for gemstone exports. Rather than having to deal with four different agencies, certified
dealers in gemstones will have a single entry point to handle all the legal, fiscal and administrative
procedures related to the export of gemstones. This initiative will be supported by a program for the
certification and quality control of Malagasy gemstones, and the creation of exchanges for rough
gemstones. In order to set,up the new regulatory framework, Government plans to work essentially with
foreign private institutions like the Gemological Institute of America (GIA). As during appraisal no
private sector institution was identified to invest in the institituions mentiones above, it was agreed that
the proposed Institute of Gemology of Madagascar (IGM) will be run by a foreign private agency like
GIA, on a management contract basis. The gemstone exchange will be essential in increasing
transparency and building.trust in the system. Without it there will not be enough raw material to be
sourced legally to feed a cutting facility. Under a PHRD Japanese Grant approved for project
preparation, the Government has engaged a consultant to prepare the request for proposals for a tender
that would give the concession to operate the exchange to a private company. The consultant is also
defining the minimum basic conditions for the operation of the exchange, including premises, and
minimum services (financial, telecommunications, security, etc.). Government plans to install the
one-stop-shop for exports either in the premises of the exchange or at the IGM.
b) the promotion of private investments that will add value to the mineral exports (cutting and polishing
of gemstones): Due to interventionist policies and a heavy dominance of the state in productive activities,
the sector of cutting and polishing of gemstones has failed - with very few exceptions - to reach the
professional level required by the export markets. Structural adjustment measures since 1995 have
created an enabling macro-environment and corresponding incentive structure but have not stimulated yet
a convincing supply response by the private sector. Despite its poor track record, lack of appropriate
sector policy guidance and institutional fragmentation, there is the general consensus that Madagascar's
rich endowment of mineral resources coupled with its relatively cheap labor costs provide genuine
opportunities for adding value to mineral resources. Madagascar's success in certain gemstones, such as
sapphire and rubies, where it is consolidating a position of world leadership, are clear examples of this
potential. With the proper level of financial resources and management, Madagascar could become one
of the world's most important producers of cut gemstones, following a world trend in which the suppliers
- 7 -



of raw materials minerals endeavor to integrate downstream and establish domestic processing facilities.
Often this is done in further conjunction with jewelry manufacturing and, to gain an added premium. For
example, some countries promote their specific gemstone as a "brand", such in the case of Tanzania.
Manufacturing generally is more labor intensive than mining and capital investment per worker is
generally lower than in mining. Therefore, the impact on the country's economy is much more obvious,
with virtually no constrains imposed by the country's deficient infrastructure. In terms of labor, no
specific prior skills are required. The country's free trade zones offer an adequate framework for the
development of gemstones' cutting and polishing activities. However, because of the special fiscal status,
it is of utmost importance that domestic lapidaries/jewelry manufacturers located in free trade zones pay
the international competitive price for raw materials. This means that the rough gemstones should be
auctioned, and that international bidders should be invited. If the domestic manufacturers do not want to
match the price for which international parties are willing to buy the rough, then the rough should be
exported. This would secure the integrity of the transfer pricing and, at the same time, guarantee that the
Madagascar would get the highest possible foreign currency revenue and taxation out of its gemstone
resource. If Madagascar adopts a sensible, non-distortionary, and internationally competitive taxation
regime, then a lot of the incentives to smuggle gemstones would disappear. In order to improve the
regulatory framework for the development of these activities in Madagascar, Government plans to get
assistance essentially from foreign private institutions like the American Gem Trades Association
(AGTA).
c) Finally, the update of the country's geological information is a key step in promoting Madagascar
geological potential to private investors and to try to anticipate areas potentially vulnerable to future
rushes on gemstones. Although this is an expensive investment, this is seen by Government as a major
long term tool to prepare the country for a sustainable development of its mineral resources. There are
clear links between the provision and broad dissemination of geo-scientific information and the physical
and institutional prerequisites to establish a comprehensive development framework as well as for good
govemance. The availability of updated and reliable geo-scientific information - airborne geophysics,
geological mapping and geochemical information - is a key factor for the development and natural
resources management capacity of a country. Today, the available technology and interpretation capacity
of integrated geo-scientific data provide information useful not only for the development of the mineral
sector, but also in areas such as health, environment, natural hazards, water resources and land-use
management, including protected areas and conflict resolution. For example, the generation of maps
showing the distribution of areas for potential future gemstones rushes would contribute to improve
mineral resources management and land-use conflict resolution.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project which would be implemented over a period of five years and consists of four components:
Component 1 - Strengthening transparency and governance in mining. This component would
support quick measures with great impact aimed at improving governance in the management of mineral
resources and reducing the smuggling of gemstones, and more specifically: (i) adjustment of the sector's
legal and regulatory framework; (ii) support for the establishment of mining administration offices close
to exploitation sites, the Bureaus de l'Administration Miniere (BAM); (iii) establishment of a
certification program for gemstones; the creation of a one-stop shop for gemstone exports, and a
gemstones exchange; and (iv) strengthening of private sector associations.



Component 2 - Key institutional reforms for the decentralized management of mineral resources.
This component would support Government's decentralization strategy for transfer of competences to the
provincial and municipal levels and empowerment of local communities. Community level effort would
include extending access to Cadastre information on the municipal levels, streamlining of tax collection,
and of Directorate of Mines and Geology operations. The project would form six provincial-level offices
in cooperation with the Ministry of Enironment to oversee environmental management on the provincial
level. Also, ten communes would be selected for implementation of decentralized management of
mineral resources, and especially tax collection on the provincial levels. Four studies in the pilot regions,
focusing on strategic impact of mining activities will be sponsored in order to build capacity in the
mining sector and to define sector strategy. A key aspect of this component is a training program aimed
to raise human resource capacity in the sector. The component would also sponsor a communication
campaign geared to raise awareness of mining sector reform in local communities. The set-up of an
Intranet and Internet network within the mining administration is another part of this component, which
would facilitate communication with all stakeholders, private and public.
Component 3 - Promoting private investments and value-added in the sector. Madagascar's
geological potential is little known, and small scale mining methods widely employed in the country lead
to a waste of resources and damage to the environment. A large portion of the minerals production is
smuggled out of the country with little fiscal and economic impact. This component would address the
current situation by (i) establishing the Mining Sector Promotion Agency and (ii) strengthening the
Geo-scientific Information Infrastructure. Creation of the Mining Sector Promotion Agency would
improve the Government's capacity to attract private sector investment by coordinating certification
procedures, administering a Small Grants program, establishing a database of geological and geophysical
information on the country's mineral resources, and designing and implementing environmental
awareness campaigns. The project would also work in coordination with the ongoing Multisectoral
STIVHIV/AIDS Prevention Project to undertake pilot activities for HIV/AIDS prevention on the
commune level. The second sub-component would finance the geo-physics campaign and conduct
geological and geochemical mapping. Both of these activities would increase the avaliability of mineral
resources information to investors by creating a Mineral Resources Governance Database and thus
facilitate private sector investment in the long-run.
Component 4 - Project coordination and management. Project management would build upon the
existing Project Implementation Unit (UCPM) that has shown proven skills in project procurement,
financial management and reporting. The UCPM would be responsible for a monitoring and evaluation
program for the activities of the project and coordinate its efforts with a Steering Committee, composed
of representatives from various ministries and charged with strategic and financial management.
- .;. n ,-  ,                               Indicative            Bank-      %'of -
Component,. i,                  Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (USSM)   financing
1. Strengthening transparency and governance in mining  6.22   16.1      4.43      13.8
2. Key institutional reforms for decentralized management  8.63  22.3    7.26      22.7
of mineral resources
3. Promoting private investments and value-added in the  20.18  52.2    17.19      53.7
sector
4. Project coordination and management               2.67       6.9      2.17       6.8
5. PPF                                               0.95       2.5      0.95       3.0
Total Project Costs  38.65   100.0     32.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   38.65     100.0     32.00     100.0
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project would be a continuation of the successful Mining Sector Reform Project (MSRP) that has
closed in December 2002. It would support the strengthening of four key sets of policy and institutional
reforms:
(i) the first is the fight against fraud and corruption in gemstones. The primary impetus for mining
sector reform in Madagascar has been the sector's sub-optimal contribution to national economic
development goals, and a range of negative environmental and social impacts. Lacking mechanisms to
reliably capture the tax revenues that should accrue from mining activities to the Central Budget and to
the affected communities, the Government of Madagascar has been unable to plan for, or prevent the
anarchic rushes on gemstone mining. Government is now seeking ways to address these issues more
effectively, through a strategy based on three main axes: (i) transparent rules granting equal opportunity
in the access to resources; and (ii) combat smuggling of rough gemstones and improve the working
conditions for the trade, cutting and polishing of gemstones.
An essential aspect of the previous Government's strategy was a reformed regulatory framework known
as the Zone d'Activite Economique Speciale (ZAES), which created special financial and legal
parameters for small scale and artisanal mining activities. Articles 205 and 2184 of Law 99.022 of the
Mining Code, established in August of 1999, supported by Article 3 of Decree 2001/093 (which modified
Decree 2000-607 of August 2000), helped establish the special financial framework for the first ZAES in
Vatomandry. Yet without more rigorous oversight, sector strategic planning, and a systematic approach
to multi-stakeholder coordination, there is a risk that this framework will not prove capable of
harmonizing the conflicting interest of stakeholders currently involved in the sector. The extreme
fragmentation of the sector ministries at the national level (there are seven ministries involved in the
issues related to the ZAES), coupled with governance issues in the gemstone area (smuggling and tax
evasion and, to a lesser extent, transparency in allocation of concessions and enforcement of the legal
obligations involved), suggest that the current institutions are not optimally aligned and positioned to
provide the necessary support and enabling environment that are needed to attain the poverty reduction
and sustainable growth objectives as laid out in the PRSP. However, the eventual failure of the ZAES, as
currently constituted, to put in place more coherent and sustainable mining practices could result in
foregone development opportunities for the rural poor and the Government. Lack of transparency in the
allocation of mining rights and reduced tax revenue could further weaken the Government's ability to
adequately monitor or regulate social and environmental impacts, and will deprive local communities of
the development opportunities that should flow from this important resource. In place of ZAES, the
Government is promoting the setup of another framework, the Bureau de l'Administration Miniere,
(BAM) to take charge of mining sector governance issues, tax collection and environmental management
issues. The BAM would operate under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance in the four pilot regions
for the duration of the project. The BAM would employ international and national consultants in order
to raise human resource potential of mining administration.
The normalization of the upstream activities in the supply chain will be completed by the streamlining of
commercialization procedures and the set-up of a impact program to combat smuggling of rough
gemstones and improve the working conditions for the trade, cutting and polishing of gemstones. Quick
impact programs will be implemented in three areas, with strong involvement and management by the
private sector : (i) the establishment of a one-stop shop for mineral exports; (ii) the set-up of a
certification and evaluation infrastructure for gemstones; and (iii) the creation of a gemstone exchange in
Antananarivo.
- 10-



(ii) The second is fiscal reform to regulate the sharing of benefits arising from mining activities with the
affected communes, and to enable Municipalities to collect specific taxes from mining operations. Local
taxes in Madagascar have traditionally been split between various recipients, through either: (i) the
introduction of additional tax fees levied on existing taxes (i.e. centimes additionels for the property tax
and annex to professional tax); (ii) or by direct sharing of taxes between various recipients, such as
various consumption taxes and licensing rights (i.e. licenses on market rights, and the sale of alcoholic
beverages, television sets, festivities, bicycles and motorcycles, fees for the issuing of official documents
related to the Etat Civil, registration of life-stock, etc.), as well as duties (ristournes) on cattle,
agricultural, forestry, and mining products. Rural communes have so far failed to gain from the
decentralization of revenue authority. The taxes that have been assigned to communes generally yield
low revenue, and are difficult to collect as there is a strong tradition of tax evasion. Local revenue
administrations are inefficient. Even though property tax revenues slightly increased over the last years,
property tax recovery lagged far behind the expectations, and were frequently surpassed by revenues
from potentially minor taxes. Government has recently launched a number of reforms to render this
overly complex system more efficient, such as the full assignment of the property tax to communes or the
recent creation of the imp6t synthetique which would merge the professional taxes, centimes additionels
and business taxes.
The Mining Code defines basic revenue sharing arrangements for the minerals royalty and the surface
rental fees collected by the Mining Cadastre, according to the table bellow. The mining royalty due from
the mining operators in 2002 totalled US$ 1.9 million, although Govemment estimates point out that this
amount could be increased tenfold by applying adequate mechanisms. Nevertheless, because of
cumbersome procedures and lack of cooperation between the mining and the tax administrations, only
about 10% of this amount was effectively collected. In 2001, the Mining Cadastre collected the
equivalent to about US$ 450,000 in fees. However, because of the lack of adequate mechanisms, it has
not been able to transfer the 30% of revenues due to the Provinces (and communes), and the equivalent
of 40% of the revenues has been transferred to the Central Govemment.
Sharing of mining revenues:
Mining Cadastre fees                 Royalties
(2% of first transaction)
Center            10%                                   10%
Province          30%                                   70%
Commune          [1/3 of provincial revenue]           [1/3 of provincial revenue]
Cadaster Office   60%                                   15%
Gold Agency      I__                                   5%
Given the high revenue potential of mining-related taxes, the proposed project will support reforms to
increase the collection of the mining royalty through refinements in the collection methodology,
introduced as part of the studies funded by the legal reform sub-component, and greater involvement of
the affected communes in its collection. In this regard, it will specifically strengthen coordination
between the central and provincial revenue administrations, and provide training and technical assistance
to carry out the transfer of competences for revenue collection to the commnunes. It will remove
inconsistencies of the current and future legal-institutional framework, and increase the administrative
capacity of communes, and their financial management.
(iii) The third is the involvement of the communes in the decentralized management ("gestion de
proximite') of mineral resources. The decentralization process in Madagascar has started with the
- 11 -



creation of communes in 1995. Today, communes provide the only formal institutional governance
framework at the local level and play an increasing role for service delivery and the coordination of local
development initiatives. Their role, however, is still limited. The financial foundations and the
administrative capacity of communes are very weak, as commune budgets rely to a large degree on
government subsidies. Donors increasingly recognize this new function of communes and are trying to
incorporate municipal governments along all steps of the project cycle. Important initiatives at this
moment include: (i) the elaboration of community development plans (Plan Communal de
Developpement, CDP), which identify local development priorities and coordinate future donor
engagements at the communal level; (ii) the Social Fund Project (FID-IV) which, for the first time, will
begin to systematically include communes in the identification, implementation, finance, and monitoring
of local development projects; (iii) efforts to harmonize procedures for community-level projects in the
National Donor Group on rural development and decentralization (SMB) and under the Bank's
Community-Driven-Development (CDD) initiative; and (iv) efforts to address and support regional
development issues through municipal associations (OPCI).  These initiatives are based on the
assumption that municipal governments should play a substantially stronger role in the coordination of
local development projects.
Most communes have already started to prepare their municipal development plans, yet in many cases
mayors and commnunal staff lack the necessary expertise and information to channel this exercise through
participatory decision-making processes and to build CDPs on well defined action plans and budgets.
Various donor-funded capacity building and training programs are under way to overcome these
constraints. Yet, in spite of recent efforts by the previous Government to coordinate these activities, the
quality and preparation of CDPs will be a function of the administrative, planning and financial capacity
of the communes. In order to use the limited resources in a most cost-effective manner, there is a need to
improve the way municipal governments engage in the identification, planning, implementation,
monitoring, and maintenance of development projects. The output of this effort would be to assist in the
coordination among mining sector stakeholders so as to enhance community involvement in the
management of mineral resources, through: (i) the integration of mining activities and revenues on their
Community Development Plans and, more broadly, on Regional Development Plans; (ii) the capacity of
local government agencies and affected communities to monitor compliance with various environmental
plans and regulations; and (iii) capacity to facilitate, mediate, avoid and resolve conflicts over mining
development as opposed to other alternative economic activities.
(iv) Finally, private sector investment, will be actively promoted for all activities under the project,
whether to assist the communes to better manage their mineral revenues, or for the increase in the value
added of mineral production. Revenues arising from the exploitation of mineral resources will provide
opportunities for villagers for greater access to goods, basic services and financing to empower their
direct participation in economic development. Given Madagascar's considerable potential, mining can
also de turned into an entry point for growth of employment and incoming-earning opportunities through
enterprise development. For the small artisans, however, capacity building is needed to enable them to
access market opportunities and to allow small firms to fully benefit from the flow of information and
know how. This is needed at several levels, starting from individual business and financial skills to
manage self-employment and micro-enterprises, through enterprise private and collective learning
mechanisms (e.g. matching grants schemes), to partnerships at the local and national levels. Training,
marketing assistance, infrastructure development, and legal/regulatory reform to improve the investment
climate are among the actions to be supported by the proposed project. technical assistance will be
provided to communities to assist them in selecting community-level investments in productive
infrastructure, such as market centers, or mineral transformation and processing, leveraged by their share
of fiscal revenues arising from mining. Such investments may be funded through existing social funds,
or private-public sector partnerships. Building on pilot projects implemented under the MSRP, access to
- 12 -



microcredit will also be provided through a strategic partnership with local microcredit institutions,
rather than by creating a new window.
The proposed project will also support the creation of a special agency within the Ministry of Energy and
Mines to promote private investments, Mining Sector Promotion Agency (APSM). The ASPM will act
as one stop shop for the certification of investments under the law of Large Scale Mining Investments,
and be the coordination arm of the promotion of the mining sector abroad. It will also support the
decentralized public mining institutions in the provision of extension services for small scale miners and
non financial services for mining communities. Nonfinancial services to be provided by the APSM range
from "social intermediation" to build social capital and basic skills within the commumty, to "business
development services" for entrepreneurs. APSM will also operate a Small Grants program to provide
individuals and firms with necessary funding for training and business development purposes in the
minerals sector. Social intermediation can help poor and marginalized groups take advantage of
economic opportunities, through training in literacy or basic financial skills, group capacity-building
efforts, and providing information on financial services available. Business Development Services will
focus on entrepreneurs and/or potential entrepreneurs, and address constraints to business creation and
growth, including: (i) training, guidance, and advisory services; (ii) providing market information
through market agents, databases, publications, visits, and other mechanisms; (iii) linking entrepreneurs
with potential buyers and markets; (iv) building business networks and linkages to promote inter-firm
cooperation; and (v) supporting higher value-added activities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The following benefits are expected:
(i) induced by the project:
(a) Increased foreign and local direct investment in mining and increased export revenues;
(b) development of private capacity in services areas to the mining industry, such as exploration and
drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories, mining construction works and earth
removal, maintenance and others;
(c) development of infrastructure related to mnining and with a strong local and regional development
impact (e.g. roads, energy);
(d) increased income-generating opportunities in areas of strong incidence of artisanal mining, increased
quality in the delivery of education and health services, and reduced migration outflow;
(e) contribution to a better regional distribution of productive activities;
(f) sustainable development and fair distribution of benefits to local communities located around mining
areas.
(ii) as a direct result of the project:
(a) strengthening of a modem, consistent and homogeneous mining legal and regulatory framework and
of Government's capacity to implement it;
(b) better understanding of how Govemment, private sector, communities and donors can work together
dealing with the integration of small scale and artisanal mining in the formnal economy;
(c) improved efficiency in public mining agencies at a decentralized level (e.g. faster and
nondiscretionary administration of mining rights and improved understanding of issues involved in
managing such rights), and improved enforcement capacity of environmental, health and safety
regulations;
(d) improved security of tenure for mining rights through nondiscretionary procedures and accurate
- 13 -



geological location of concessions, and prevention and contention of gemstone rushes;
(e) improved knowledge of existing environmental and socioeconomic conditions, as a basis for
improved management and participation of local communities;
(f) protection of the environment from potential damage caused by mining and a better grasp of how to
design future environmental protection measures in the sector;
(g) generation of baseline regional information that can be used by all sectors (e.g. water resources,
agriculture).
Target Populations and Sectors
While the proposed project will benefit the entire private (foreign and local) mmning investors
community, it will also contemplate targeted actions to improve the standards of living of rural
populations and reduce environmental damages in small-scale and artisanal mining areas. The proposed
project will provide technical assistance, legal rights, security of tenure, improved access to markets,
environmental and health awareness, and will facilitate access to basic services. It will also address
gender and infant labor issues in artisanal mining.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation Period
The proposed project would be implemented over a period of 5 years. Project completion date would be
August 15, 2008 and the Credit closing date would be December 31, 2008
Executing agency
The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) will be responsible for the implementation of the project.
Project management
The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), through the existing UCPM (Mining Project Coordination
Unit) will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The UCPM will continue to
operate and will (i) be responsible for the execution of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP); (ii)
manage (a) procurement - including all contracting for works and purchases of goods - and the hiring of
consultants, (b) Project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship with the
Bank, and (d), financial record keeping, the Special Account and disbursements; and (iii), establish
communication and/or coordination links between MEM and the different sectors involved in the Project.
The Project will also establish a Steering Committee, composed of representatives from MEM, Ministry
of the Environment, DMG, BCMM, CNM. The Steering Committee will be chaired by the Director
General of MEM and will oversee financial, management, and strategic issues.
Accounting, financial reporting and audits
A financial management assessment has been carried out during pre-appraisal (see Annex 6), and
procedure adjustments to comply with Bank norms have been agreed with MEM. A computerized
financial management system will be set up. The UCPM will maintain accounts and payments. A
summary financial report will be included in the quarterly progress reports. Project accounts, the Special
Account, all procurement and compliance with the financial and legal covenants of the Credit Agreement
and all procurement, including Statements of Expenditure will be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The terms of reference of the audit have been reviewed by the financial
management specialist of the Bank/IDA. The auditors will be required to carry out a comprehensive
review of the internal control procedures and provide a management report outlining any
recommendations for their improvement. The audit report will be submitted to IDA not later than 6
- 14 -



months after the end of each fiscal year.
Funds Flow
The flow of funds from IDA credit and the government is presented as follows:
World Bank                   Government
(Credit funds)               (Counterpart funds)
UCPM:
Special Account
Suppliers of goods, works and
services
To ensure timely and reliable flow of funds, a special account will be opened in a local commercial bank
under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The special account would be replenished on the basis of
documentary evidence, provided to IDA by UCPM, of payments made from the account for works, goods
and services that are eligible for financing under the credit. All supporting documents will be retained by
UCPM and made available for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors. The
counterpart funds from the government will be used for the purpose of defraying the cost of expenditures
not financed by the credit and necessary for the execution of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project's emphasis is put on strengthening governance in the management of mineral
resources and enhancing management capacity of public mining institutions at the Provincial and
Municipal level. It is essentially a continuation of the Mining Sector Reform Project, a Learning and
Innovation project that closed in December 2002. Although a SIL is a natural follow-up to a LIL (that has
been designed to test pilot approaches that could later be mainstreamed on a bigger operation), many
alternatives have been considered for the project.
Options which have been considered include:
(a) the inclusion of mining sector reform conditionally as a part of a programmatic adjustment operation;
(b) the inclusion of a mining component in a larger operation to promote private sector development in
Madagascar, like the Second Private Sector Development Project (PATESP 2);
(c) the inclusion of a mining component on a bigger programmatic lending operation to promote
governance and decentralization (PAIGEP 2).
- 15-



Option (a) was considered following the introduction of mining related conditionality on SAC n, but has
been rejected given: (i) the urgent requirement for capacity building and technical support for
institutional strengthening in order to launch a quick program aimed at improving governance and
fighting smuggling in the area, as well as to control the increasing phenomena of devastating rushes on
gemstones; and (ii) that the transfer and consolidation of modem procedures regarding administration
and management of mineral resources and environmental protection would generate a greater synergy
effect in terms of sector development, especially in Provinces with an important potential for small-scale
mining.
Option (b) has been rejected given: (i) that although the Second Private Sector Development Project has
an institutional building component, it focus more on public/private partnerships than on building
capacity of public institutions; (ii) its implementation arrangements are not suited to the innovative
approach used for small-scale mining, through integrated programs covering management, legal,
technical, environmental and social issues that is being tested in Madagascar, with its links to a
CDD-type strategy of implementation.
Project preparation began under Option (c), the proposed project being one of the original components of
the Poverty Reduction & Institutional Development Technical Assistance Project. However, during the
project's PCD Review meeting, it was decided to split the proposed project in two, to enhance
consistence of the proposed actions and facilitate the implementation of the planned tasks.
Timing is critical in the implementation of the project, and for that reason it was included in the k-CAS.
Among the compelling reasons for supporting this project at this time in Madagascar, the following
should be referred the poverty links of small scale mining because of lack of economic alternatives, and
the window of opportunity to increase governance in a key and sensible sector. The proposed project is
part of a new generation of mining projects focusing on revenue management and sustainability, and has
a multisector focus, addressing a series of cross-cutting issues that have strong links to the natural
resources management/ environment strategy of the country. In addition, CDD and capacity building
focus are very strong in the Madagascar agenda, and mining has a strong link to them. Governance is
also the main pillar of the new CAS.
2. Major reRated projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latett Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Banh-financed projects only
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Mining Sector Reform             Mining Sector Reform Project     S            S
(completed)
Decentralization, governance     Poverty Reduction &
Institutional Development TA
Project (planned)
Privatization, private sector    Second Private Sector
development                      Development and Capacity
Building Project (ongoing)
Economic Policy and Governance   Second Structural Adjustment     S            S
Credit (SAC LI)
- 16 -



Sustainable management of natural  Second Environmental Project   S            S
resources                        (EP II)
-,                     Third Environmental Project
(planned)
Health                           Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS
Prevention Project (ongoing)
Other development agencies
French Cooperation               PAEPEM- Promotion of
cutting and polishing of
Gemstones
USAID                            PAGE-Environmental
management training and
capacity building
USAID                            PACT- Govemance
improvement
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
A Japanese PHRD grant has been approved for project preparation.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from the Mining Sector Reform Project and other ongoing projects being
implemented in Madagascar, from other countries where the Bank has financed similar capacity building
operations for mining (e.g., Algeria, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique and
Tanzania), as well as from a Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin America (A Mining Strategy
for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996).
Experience in Madagascar shows that although Govemment is committed to policy reform and to
improvements in the legal and regulatory framework, enforcement of the new regulations can be blocked
by govemance issues and institutional shortcomings. In addition, the general trend towards a state that
withdraws from direct participation in economic activities and the operational aspects of implementing
public policy requires systematic thinking on how to improve the interface between the public and
private sector for the purpose of generating a more dynamic mining sector, in such a way that will allow
the affected communities to benefit directly from the surge in activities.
Lack of detailed baseline information and adequate institutional capacity make improving govemance in
the small-scale mining area through technical assistance a particularly difficult task. Experience with
capacity building and public sector reform under the MSRP and economic and sector work conducted
under the project show that leaming through the implementation of pilot projects is crucial to achieve
results on the ground. In addition, giving the generalized level of poverty and the shortfalls in
institutional capacity, public/private partnerships are particularly adapted to the situation of Madagascar.
The counterpart, at the policy level, of this strategic choice, is that policy implementation has to stress
incentives to private economic activity rather than indiscriminate economic repression.
Similar experience in other World Bank projects in the country suggests that emphasis on beneficiary
participation in project preparation and supervision, organization and coordination in the field are critical
for timely and effective implementation. Given the limited availability of highly skilled staff, ownership
and political commitment to project objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership, and clear
delineation of ministerial authority and responsibilities.
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling environment increases the ability of a
country to attract and retain appropriate private investment. The last 25 years have seen significant
- 17 -



changes in the international mining industry, in large measure because of the liberalization of economic
and mining policies of previously restrictive governments in mining countries. These reforms have had
three broad objectives, to improve sector performance and growth and the contribution of mining to the
national economies, to ensure the sustainability of the mining industries in the developing countries, and
to ensure that the host countries and local populations get a fair share from the benefits of growth of the
sector.
Work Bank involvement in the reform process of successful mining countries shows that, for this to
happen, the enactment of the necessary legal, fiscal and environmental policies and the establishment of
strong mining institutions to implement and administer them have proven to be the keys to success. This
includes: (i) a background of sensible economic policies and a coherent general legal framework; (ii) a
mining law providing security of tenure, clarity and transparency and access to land (including the
release of reserved areas held up by the State and full transferability of concessions to remove all barriers
to the entry of investors) , and an investment framework providing access to foreign exchange and a
stable and equitable fiscal regime; (iii) public mining institutions that apply properly the sector policies;
(iv) a sensible environmental management system; and (v) clear incentives and mechanisms to associate
the local communities to the management of mineral resources and to make them benefit of the revenues
arising from the mining activity.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Borrower is demonstrated by the priority given to natural resources and the mining
sector in the overall strategy to increase growth and reduce poverty in the country (I-PRSP). At the sector
level, commitment can be seen in the effort put by the new Government into the irnmediate approval of
the Law on Large Scale Mining Investments, a major milestone in the improvement of the legal and
regulatory framework for the sector. In addition, even during the crisis, Government did in such a way to
guarantee the adequate operation of the Mining Cadastre, the main guarantor of security of tenure in the
sector. Government has announced a major plan to increase governance and fight corruption in the area
of gemstones and is counting on the project's assistance to implement it. Other stakeholders are also
committed to the project. At the decentralized level, Provincial Governors and Mayors are waiting for a
more clear definition on their role and their share of revenues in minerals development and they believe
that the project will provide the appropriate tools to support the right decisions. The private sector
appreciates the priority given by the new Government to mining but wants to be involved in the
decision-making and implementation mechanisms needed to improve governance in the sector. The
private operators are seeing the project as the adequate instrument to achieve these goals. NGO's are
counting on the support provided by the previous mining project to involvement of the communes in the
management of small-scale mining to the build up of their operations in the area. Both private sector and
NGOs have participated informally in project preparation but will be formally involved in the Steering
Committee to oversee project implementation.
Ownership: Government ownership is indicated by the successful implementation of MSRP, the ability to
meet all the mining related conditions of SAC II, and the seriousness of its participation in the
preparation of the project so far, including passing legislation in improving governance in small-scale
mining, and organizing seminars and workshops dealing with in-depth analysis of sector reforms to be
supported by the project. The definition of the project scope is the result of a five year long dialogue
between MEM and the Bank, and based on the planned and on-going activities of the Ministry.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank's competitive advantage in mining. The Bank has been the leading provider of assistance to mining
- 18-



sector reform in African and Latin American countries during the last decade and in this capacity has
contributed to an upsurge in mining activities in both continents. The Bank has been leading the policy
dialogue in mining in Madagascar, and is the only donor capable of providing an integrated approach to
the technical assistance to the given to Government for institutional development and regulatory reform
designed to encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in a socially and environmentally
sound way. Bank involvement will also be catalytic in attracting additional funds and support from
bilateral donors particularly for the implementation of the social mitigation measures, and in providing
the environment for encouraging private sector investment.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR   % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
See Annex 4
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
N/A
Fiscal Impact:
See Annex 4
3. Technical:
The introduction and use of straightforward state-of-the-art technology are successful under the previous
mining project, particularly within the fields of data processing and information management (e.g. GIS
and related data bases). The best example is represented by the use of IT to manage the mining title
system. The installation of similar IT will be extended under the proposed project to manage
environmental permits and monitoring, as well as the geological information infrastructure.
4. Institutional:
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the proposed operation are detailed in the Project
Description Summary. The Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) is handling the Mining Project and has
experience and capacity. The UCPM was placed within the Direction des Mines one of MEM
department. There will be close collaboration between UCPM and the MEM during the preparation of
the present operation. It is also crucial for the success of the project that there is close collaboration with
the MEM because the project will help in the accomplishment of its program.
An institutional capacity assessment was undertaken (the full document is available in project files). The
assessment evaluated the capacity of existing institutions, and suggests improvement in view of the new
project. Particular attention was paid to inter-organizational relationships, communication, incentives,
bottom-up accountability and management capacity. The implementation set-up was designed based on
the recommendations of this report and project team.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), and the existing Project
Coordination Unit (UCPM), will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project.
- 19-



4.2 Project management:
MSRP's exiting Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) will continue to operate, coordinating
project implementation, and managing:
(a) procurement - including all contracting for works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants;
(b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation;
(c) the contractual relationship with IDA;
(d) financial management, the Special Account and disbursements.
To ensure an early implementation of project activities,  key staff (the national coordinator, , the
financial management specialist) is already in place. In order to cope with the additional work load
induced by the proposed Project, UCPM will be reinforced by a procurement officer, and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist. UCPM's new staff and other replacements will be selected on a competitive
basis, under TORs approved by IDA and enumerated like private sector employees. have to be hired. All
key members of the UCPM will be recruited on a contractual basis in line with Bank Guidelines and
contracts will be extended year by year based on performance.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Procurement Code was issued in 1998 and the Bank ascertained that deficient features identified in the
1995 CPAR have been properly addressed. Bank standard bidding documents (SBDs) are widely used
and have helped ensure that any unacceptable features do not affect Bank-financed procurement.
However, one area of concern is that the Government's approval process for contract signing is
cumbersome and involves an excessive number of bureaucratic steps causing unnecessary delays. In
addition, insufficient programming and procurement planning contribute to delays in project
implementation resulting slow disbursement. To mitigate risks of delays for the proposed project, proper
prerequisites for the use of Bank standard bidding documents, including evaluation reports for National
Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) have been agreed on with the Government during negotiations
and the existing MSRP procedures manual is being updated as a part of the PIP and its up-date
satisfactory to IDA guidelines is a condition of effectiveness.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment of the UPCM, including training needs and arrangements, was
undertaken by an experienced procurement specialist as part of appraisal. On the basis of the assessment,
an action plan was agreed upon to address areas where the UPCM needs to be strengthened to meet good
performance criteria for procurement. The action plan includes (i) the recruitment of a procurement
officer; (ii) a specific section on procurement in the Project Implementation Manual to be finalized
before effectiveness; (iii) the organization of the filing of procurement-related documents; (iv)
procurement training sessions for project staff; and (v) the financing of independent procurement and
technical audits to be carried out on a regular basis (see Annex 6 for details).  To ensure that
procurement does not become a bottleneck for disbursement, a good procurement procedures manual
must be designed and Credit funds should provide for implementation assistance and ex-post reviews.
Since a large portion of the Credit funds will be used for technical assistance and consulting assignments,
early attention will be given to advance planning of recruitment and timely search for expressions of
interest through international advertising to obtain the best possible pool of candidates from which strong
short lists can be compiled.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The assessment carried out during the pre-appraisal stage by an IDA accredited specialist determined that
the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However the
implementation of a short-term action plan is needed to strengthen the financial management system in
place and to build its capacity to produce quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) with the
- 20 -



designed format provided in the Annex A of the FMRs Guidelines for World Bank-financed Projects.
The following measures will be taken prior to effectiveness to strengthen the project's financial
management system: i) review of the project's Chart of accounts to reflect components and activities
outlined in the PCD/PAD to satisfy reporting requirements; ii) update of the current accounting manual
of procedures in order to include the job description of the new staff to be recruited, the new chart of
accounts and the content and format of FMRs that will be prepared by the project; iii) recruitment, on a
competitive basis, of an accounting assistant, a procurement specialist and a monitoring and evaluation
specialist; iv) adjustment of the accounting software acquired by the project to allow the production on a
quarterly basis of Financial Monitoring Reports required by IDA; v) recruitment of an audit firm
acceptable to IDA to audit the project accounts.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no investments in mining operations under the Project. However, the Project would stimulate
private investment in mining, and identified environmental issues regarding environmental management
and control by public mining authorities include:
(i) Government is having problems in the implementation of the environmental regulations applicable to
mining, especially with regards to small scale and artisanal activities;
(ii) the Minister of Energy and Mines has yet to fully staff and provide adequate budget to the existing
Environmental Unit of the Mining Directorate and the skills have to be decentralized at the provincial
level;
(iii) environmental baseline data for key mining areas has started to be developed under the MSRP but is
still inadequate to monitor the development impact of mining activities or to provide adequate
information to the private sector for the preparation of environmental assessment (EA) studies;
(iv) public participation in mining projects is embrionary;
(v) there is little experience in evaluating socio-economic impacts of mining projects.
The project will form the Consultative Committee, which will be composed of MRGP representatives,
concerned NGOs and environmental management organizations. The Consultative Committee will focus
on informing concerned parties on project activities, engaging stakeholders in dialogue, and reporting to
the Steering committee on its decisions.
In order to address these issues, an update of the Sector Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA)
will be carried out as part of the project, focusing on the:
(i) review of the present status of the environmental legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks;
(ii) evolution of the mining sector, including a description of most of the mining projects in operation or
under development;
(iii) potential physical and socio-economic impacts of sector activities on the environment and on the
communities, including indigenous populations;
(iv) identification of protected areas and areas of high value biodiversity restricted to mining activities,
and prospective areas for mining development where environmental baseline studies will be prepared, in
order to assess natural, social and sector background data;
(v) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline studies aiming at the definition and implementation of
consultation procedures, training requirements and programs, ad hoc institutional strengthening,
altematives for revenue sharing with local communities, and other related measures.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project is categorized as "B" without a separate EA, but a separate EMP was prepared and disclosed
at the World Bank Infoshop and in the country. Measures taken in the previous mining capacity building
- 21 -



projects and the environmental management projects were spelt out. The annex outlines the capacity
building initiatives being taken to ensure that the regulatory framework that has been put in place is
enforced, and how the proposed project intends on bringing small scale and artisanal miners into the
economic mainstream as a way of applying the rules of the game for environmental management among
other management issues.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: EMP: 10/02/2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Because of the crisis, intensive consultation could not be carried out during the preparation of the
Environmental Management Plan. Formal consultation began with the disclosure of the plan in the
country, on October 2002. Associations of small-scale miners, non governmental organizations, private
mining companies and representatives of the central, provincial and municipal administration were
invited to the meetings. Consultation with local NGOs took place during project appraisal.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP includes quantifies performance indicators that will be monitored and evaluated during project
implementation. A dedicated person is being recruited at the Project implementation unit level to
coordinate the M&E process. He/she will rely on with similar efforts being developed on other Bank
project in Madagascar and liaise with non governmental organizations, mayors of communities,
associations of small-scale miners, private mining companies and representatives of the central,
provincial and municipal administrations. A special committee regrouping MEM, the Ministry of
Forestry (Eaux et forets) and NGOs will be created to steer the implementation of the EMP and serve as a
conciliator for eventual conflicts between the two sectors.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Traditionally, assessment of the economic impact of a mining project has been at the level of the national
economy, in terms of fiscal revenues, export earnings, GDP, gross capital investment, value added, and
other parameters. These impacts can be measured using well-developed statistical and other techniques.
However, the socio-cultural impacts of mining on local communities are receiving growing attention, and
the parameters, methodologies, and techniques used to assess these impacts are only now being
developed, in contrast to macro-economic impact assessment. Fundamentally, social assessments involve
identifying for each group of stakeholders the balance of positive and negative impacts, devising numeric
or other objective indicators, and recommending measures to maximize positive outcomes and attenuate
negative effects. Experience has shown that consultation and involvement of local communities in these
assessments is critical and forms the basis for subsequent action programs. However, assessment of the
impacts and involvement of the local community in the consultation process is still at an early stage, due
principally to lack of familiarity with the techniques and practices of social assessment as well as an
inadequate institutional and regulatory framework to provide for such assessments. In the context of large
mining projects, the interest of local communities can be properly taken into account through the
establishment of public/private partnerships supported by the project's sponsor. In the case of small scale
mining, capacity building is required in areas like local economric development and community
- 22 -



enpowerment.
The project's social impact is expected to be substantial. It will focus on building links among the
mining, rural development, and environmental management sectors, as an engine for inclusive growth
and poverty reduction. The draft full-PRSP, which was presented in November 2001, rightly highlights
the importance of generating enabling conditions for more inclusive economic growth that particularly
benefits the rural poor. The rural sector represents a critical part of the Malagasy economy, representing
43% of GDP in 2000 (including agriculture, livestock, fishing, forestry and downstream agro-industries).
About 75% of the population, or about 2 million households derive their livelihood from agriculture.
However, poverty indicators for agricultural households are worse in comparison with other
socioeconomic groups, including rural households that depend on nonfarm activities. Thus the
importance of the potential contribution of nonagricultural revenues (e.g. mining and eco-tourism), to
reduce poverty in the rural world.
The project will provide practical tools for the decentralization process and as such will help modernize
life for the rural population and assist the urban population by the continued availability of low-cost
materials of mineral origin. This impact can be measured by improvements in living conditions, health
and hygiene, and education in areas of small-scale mining. In order to maximize its social impact, the
proposed project will liaise closely to proposed Community Development (CDP) and Rural Development
Support (RDSP) Projects that are currently under preparation. Both will provide, through participatory
approaches, assistance at community level for respectively social development and income generating,
with a focus on agriculture, water, sanitation, and village specific solutions. Both will offer a financing
mechanism for village type activities, either through a matching grants program or a more commercial
mechanism. The support structure to be created by these two projects can be accessed by the villages for
the preparation and the implementation of their Development Plans.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The reform of the mining sector has been discussed at length at various occasions and in several rounds
of public discussions with different stakeholders. The National Council of Mines (a sort of embrionary
Chamber of Mines) has been closely associated with MSRP implementation and will be deeply involved
in project preparation. Small-scale and artisanal miners and a certain number of mining associations have
been directly involved in the implementation of the small scale mining pilot projects under the MSRP.
They will be directly associated with project preparation through the creation of the Consultative
Committee, which will put NGOs in touch with the MRGP and environmental protection programs. A
number of selected villages will prepare their own plans for mineral resources; the methodology was
developed and is being tested under the MSRP, with full collaboration of the villagers. A few NGO's and
private firms participated to provide training and carry out studies. They will be involved in the
discussions during preparation, mainly from the environmental and social areas.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultation on environmental and social issues is mandatory under the new mining law and will be a
permanent feature of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Continuous monitoring, surveys and questionnaires will be carried out during project implementation. A
M&E sub-component is also being included into project design.
- 23 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Community consultation, surveys and questionnaires. Monitoring committees involving environmental
and development NGOs and CSOs.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
t x4  o>z>;;?-Psw -s   Poicy 'f  -  ' '  ,r,   - Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         L Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 ( Yes U No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes 9 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    O Yes ( No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes U No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (9Yes () No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                        U Yes J No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (    Yes U)No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  () Yes U No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      ( Yes ( No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Under the proposed project, methodological and on-the-job training on safeguard policies and their
application would be provided to the public entitites responsible for environmental and social
management of the mining public administration. During project implementation, emphasis will be put
on ELAs assessment capacity as well as the development and implementation of consultation procedures.
In addition, monitoring committees involving all involved stakeholders, including environmental and
development NGOs and CSOs, have been already established. They will monitor the project performance
during implementation.
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Madagascar has good geological potential as evidenced by the interest major international mining
companies are showing in the country. However, the Government will encounter difficulty in sustaining
this interest and in ensuring the maximum contribution to economic development unless the major
governance issues are addressed and reforms to decentralize the mineral resources management that have
already begun are deepened and completed. If transparent management, proper regulations and
enforcement mechanisms as well as a competitive environment are put into place, minerals exploration
and development of mines will become self-sustaining to provide a continual revenue stream and other
economic benefits to the country. Without substantial improvement of governance in the sector, the
continuation of rushes on gemstones could destroy the social and environmental tissue in huge extension
of the East coast without material contribution to the region's development. The project will contribute to
the institutional strengthening of the Government of Madagascar in key areas of the mining sector
(policy, institutional, environmental, social), through a set of prerequisite steps that will lay the
foundation for future private investment. Project implementation will provide a sound basis for
Madagascar in exploiting, over the long term and in a developmentally sound manner, the significant
potential of its natural resources. Sustainability will be enhanced through the project's strong emphasis
on institutional capacity building, training, human capital development and environmental awareness in
the public as well as private sectors.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government continued commitment to        S         The new Government has confirmed the
reform                                              priority of the mining sector in its strategy of
rapid growth. The immediate approval of the
Law on Large Scale Mining Investments
confirms commitment to reforms. The
performance of the Mining Cadastre, an
advanced indicator of governance in the sector,
will continue to be monitored during the
project.
Delays in decentralization reforms;       M         Preparatory work was conducted under the
condensed timing to build-up capacity to            MSRP. The project contemplates substantial
manage the sector by the central and                amounts of capacity building and training and
Provincial mining institutions                      assistance will be phased and prioritized so as
not to overburden the relevant government
departments and selected communities.
Reasonably stable world minerals market   M         Although the general trend in mineral prices
conditions and prices                               will continue to be flat or downward over the
long term, it is expected that as a result of the
project potential investors will find promising
targets that will allow them to position
themselves favorably in the next minerals
investment cycle.
Lack of capacity at the community level   S         Provision of capacity building services that go
to enforce accountability requirements              along with transfer mechanisms for mineral
that come with increased empowerment                resources management.
- 25 -



Transparent management of regulation      S         Advisory services and sufficient project
and enforcement                                    supervision throughout the project.
Continued staff ownership regarding       M         Provision of necessary staff, resources and
project objectives                                  conditions to effectively implement the reforn.
From Components to Outputs
3. Staff stability and continued ownership  M       Provision of necessary staff, resources and
regarding project objectives                        conditions to effectively implement the
institutional reform. Participative processes to
implement the institutional reform and
introduce new work methods
Staffing of the UCPM                      M         Recruitment of a procurement specialist, a M &
E specialist and an accounting assistant to
ensure appropriate segregation of duties.
Quality of External Audit                 S         - Local auditors who intend to audit the
financial statements of Bank financed projects
were invited to enter into partnership with
international auditing firm to strengthen their
capacity.
- Recruitment of auditors based on QCBS
method;
- Reinforcement of the accounting profession
by creating a component under the "Poverty
Reduction and Institutional Development
Technical Assistance".
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Financial Management effectiveness condition: Project account opened and counterpart fund deposited.
Project coordinator selected through public advertisement and contracted.
Project Implementation Plan manual adopted by the Government and acceptable to IDA
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Board presentation :
- Final version of the Letter of Sector Policy submitted to the Bank, including arrangements to
improve governance in small scale mining of gold and gemstones, and an action plan for the
decentralization of the institutional framework for the public mining institutions.
Financial Covenants:
o The UCPM shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations , resources and expenditures;
o  Records, accounts, special accounts, SOEs shall be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
- 26 -



improve governance in small scale mining of gold and gemstones, and an action plan for the
decentralization of the institutional framework for the public mining institutions.
Financial Covenants:
* The UCPM shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations , resources and expenditures;
* Records, accounts, special accounts, SOEs shall be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA;
* Production ofK quarterly FMRs.
H. Readiness for Implementation
r] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
Z  1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OL 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Paulo tre Sa                        er A. Van Der Veen             afez M. H. Ghanem
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Key-Performance    2   Data Collectdon Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectiyes          Indicators,                .                   Critical Assumpt!ons
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Improved governance in  Declared production of   National statistics, sector  Continued Government
the management of mineral  gemstones by              statistics collected by the  commitment
resources.                legally-established artisanal  Directorate of Mines and
muners increases by 50% by  Geology.
the mud-term review and by
100% at end of the project to
reach US$40 million in 2008.
2. Higher and more        Approval of at least one large  National statistics, sector  Basic economic and relevant
sustainable rates of growth  mining investment by a private statistics collected by the  political stability maintained.
that reach the poor.      firm.                      Directorate of Mines and  Stable sector policy
Geology                   environment
3. Natural resource       Increase in per capita revenues Household surveys,   Political commitment and
management to reduce      of populations in small scale  Consultants' reports,  financial support at the central
environmental degradation. and artisanal mining areas  supervision reports,    and decentralized level to
Reduction in the number of  Implementation Completion  pursue policies in favor of the
uncontrolled gemstone rushes. Report (ICR).          communes
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Strengthen transparency  Four BAM (Mining         Sector statistics, surveys of  Government policies
and governance in mining.  Administration Bureaus)   stakeholder groups.       remain in line with the
created. Creation of a one-stop                      strategic objectives of the
shop for exports of gemstones.                       PSRP. Policies and strategies
in mining sufficiently address
problems in the sector.
2. Promote key institutional Collection rate of mining  M&E reports.           Reasonably stable world
reforms for the           royalty increases from the                           minerals market
decentralized management  average of 10% today to 80%                          conditions/prices.
of mineral resources      at the end of the project, as a
result of the decentralized tax
collection procedures.
Number of community        Project implementation    Environmental control
development plans that     reports.                  procedures are enforceable.
include management of
mineral resources (minimum
of 10); decentralization of
mining administration
increases fiscal revenues from
mining for provinces and
communes by 50%.
- 28 -



3. Promote private        Annual exports of gold and  Midterm review.
investments and value-added gemstones from small scale
in the sector.            mining increase from about
US$ 21 million today to
US$50 million at the end of
project.
Average annual investments in Implementation Completion
mining increase from about  Report (ICR).
US$ 10 million today to US$
85 million at the end of project
- 29 -



-'<'' ','' "  ,   ^;;  '|  KeyFPeqformance      Data Col0ection Sratigy          ..           r
i, 6rchyof Objectiv' s  -      Indicators                                    -   itical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Legal and regulatory   Special regime for gemstones  Surveys of stakeholder groups. Policy environment
framework improved to     to improve access to the                             provides strong leadership and
increase transparency in the  resource, liberalize marketing,                  continues to actively support
commercialization of gold and and facilitate normalization of                  the implementation process.
gemstones.                small-scale mining.
2. Set-up of four Bureau  BAM created in four target  Sector statistics, M&E reports. Stakeholders, public sector
d'Administration Miniere  areas. Each BAM will possess                         agencies, beneficiaries, and
(BAM) to administer mining  an outreach program and will                       the political level are
tax collection, environmental  conduct communication                           responsive to the envisaged
management, and           campaigns with local                                 changes, they collaborate and
communication with        communities.                                         encourage the implementation
communes                                                                       of the reforms
3. Program for the certification Creation of small exchanges  Mining Cadastre data base.  Stakeholder groups (NGOs,
and quality control of     for gemstones, and one-stop                         etc.) have sufficient political
gemstones                 shop for the export of                               clout to influence the
gemstones. Set-up of                                 implementation of reforms.
certificates of origin for
Malagasy gemstones.
4 Fiscal reform to allow for  Collection of mining taxes  Sector statistics    Government commitment,
the decentralized collection of rising from an average of 10 %                 legislation and regulatory
part of the sector's taxes.  in 2000 to 80% by 2008.                           framework in place.
5. Increased human resource  Training and certification of  Sector statistics, consultant  Stakeholders' commitment and
capacity in the mining sector. smallscale miners in modem  implementation reports.  stable legislative environment.
gem processing techniques.
At least 20 individuals
certified each year of project
implementation.
6. Decentralized management Six Environmental Units  Sector statistics and studies  Stable regulatory framework,
of mineral resources applied in established in the Provinces                   government commitment.
the pilot regions.         SESA completed by Mid-term
review. Four studies
completed in the pilot regions
by project end.
7. Increased production and  Declared exports of gold and  Sector statistics.  Govemrnment leadership and
exports from small-scale  gemstones at US$50 million                           application of existing
mining areas.             by 2008.                                             legislation.
8. Increase of cutting and  Percentage of value added to  Midterm review       Government commitment and
polishing of gemstones in the  gemstones in the country.                       stable legislation.
country.
9 Effective operations of the  Backlog of overdue    Sector statistics.         Stable legislation, govemment
Mining Cadaster Office     application not exceeding 5%                        commitment
of all permits.
- 30 -



10 Improved environmental  Territorial conservation  Implementation Completion  Engagement between the
conditions in small-scale  practices in smaliscale mining Report.               community and the miners.
mining areas.              areas. Restitution of previous
environmental conditions after
the end of mining exploration
period.
- 31 -



F   -    ffi  ,   [    Key Perfbrmance        Data Collection Strategy |
_Hierarchy of'Objectives         Indicators  . .     |                         'Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Strengthening of       US$6.22                                              Autonomous provinces
transparency and                                                               constructively collaborate with
governance.                                                                    other levels of government
I 1. Adjustment of the Legal  US$0 57million         Studies on decentralization of Central administration
and Regulatory Framework                            tax revenues and collection in accept the devolution of
the sector                authority to decentralized
levels of
government.
1.2 Support to Decentralized  US$1.66 million       Baseline study on cutting and  Rules and regulations are
Management of Mineral                                polishing of gemstones.   adequately applied,
Resources                                                                      non-application will be dealt
with accordingly.
1.3 Establishment of a    US$3 74 millon             Contracts, procurement    Reform proposals are
certification program for                            records, Consultants' reports,  developed and implemented
gemstones.                                           monitoring reports, technical  based on a participatory
and training performance  approach to generate and
evaluation reports, manuals,  maintain necessary
financial reports and audits.  stakeholder support.
1.4. Strengthening of private  US$0.25 million       Project quarterly and annual  Improved institutional
sector associations.                                reports.                   coordination.
Four studies completed in the  Continued commitment to
pilot regions              reform;
2. Strengthening of the   US$8.63 million                                      Continued project ownership;
decentralized mining
administration
2.1. Institutional adjustment  US$7.06 million       Update of sector          No political interference.
and capacity building of the                         environmental and Social
decentralized public mmning                          Assessment.
institutions.
2.2 Communication campaign US$0 30 million                                      Staff stability
2.3 Training program      US$0.72 million                                       Satisfactory performance by
contracted consultants.
2.4 Set-up of an Intranet and  US$0.55 million                                 Adequate WB supervision.
Internet network within the
mining administration
3.Promoting private
investment and value-added  US$20.18 million
in the sector
3.1. Assistance to the creation US$3.30 million      Number of firm certifications  Stable legislation and
of the Mining Sector                                 and requests processed by  government commitment
Promotion Agency (APSM)                              APSM.
3.2. Strengthening of'    US$16.87 million           Sector infrastructure updated, Adequate WB supervision
Geo-scientific Information                           and number of maps        International firm recruitment.
Infrastructure                                       published.
4. Project Management and  US$2.67 million
Coordination
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.22 million
Strengthening transparency and governance in mining.
This component supports measures aimed at improving governance in the management of mineral
resources, with special emphasis on gemstones and small-scale mining. The objective is to reduce the
anarchic development of the small-scale mining sector and to increase value added, in order to enhance
the sector contribution to Government revenues and to the local and national economies. The activities
of the component are grouped into four sub-components: (i) adjustment of the sector's legal and
regulatory framework; (ii) support for the establishment of mining administration offices close to
exploitation sites, Bureaus de l'Administration Miniere (BAM); (iii) establishment of a certification
program for gemstones; the creation of a one-stop shop for gemstone exports, and a gemstones exchange;
and (iv) strengthening of private sector associations.
1.1. Adjustment of the Legal and Regulatorv Framework - US$ 0.57 million (1.5% of total project costs).
The key aspects of the legal reform have been set up during the previous Mining Sector Reform Project.
The follow-up consists of: (i) publication of the remaining regulations, (arretes, directives, etc.); (ii)
update of the existing framework to take into account the on-going decentralization, namely in terms of
the fiscal regime; and (iii) adaptation of existing regulations to the new Government policy in regard to
gemstones, focused on equal opportunity in access to resources, trade liberalization and export
promotion. In order to strengthen governance in small-scale and artisanal mining, specific regulations
will be prepared and promulgated for gold and gemstones. The reforms will include simplification of
procedures for the granting of mining titles, establishment of a transparent regime for the
commercialization of gold and gemstones, and prevention of smuggling.
1.2. Support to Decentralized Management of Mineral Resources - US$ 1.66 million (4.3% of total
project costs). During the Mining Sector Reform Project, the Government of Madagascar selected the
Zones d'Activites Economiques Speciales (ZAES) as the key policy instrument to contain the
proliferation of gemstones rushes, to avoid smuggling, and to mitigate negative environmental and social
impacts on affected communities. The first ZAES was created in Vatomandry, but, due to the recent
political crisis, the expenence could no be fully developed, partially with respect to environmental and
social aspects. The ZAES caused conflicts, mainly due to confrontation with the Mining Code. In order
to avoid the deficiencies observed, and despite some advantages demonstrated by the Vatomandry ZAES,
sector authorities have elected to create another institution, incorporating some aspects of the original
ZAES. The newly proposed structure is Bureau de l'Administration Miniere (BAM), which will be
established under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance to ensure collection of local taxes imposed on
the sales of mining production (i.e. precious stones, gold), supervision of mining sector activities, and
environmental management. BAM will be created in the four pilot regions - Ilakaka (Fianarantsoa),
Ambondromifehy (Antsiranana), Andilamena (Toanasina), and Bezaha-Ejeda (Tulear). The BAM will
coordinate closely with community and communes on the establishment of local mining offices,
participate in the formation of cadres, and conduct communication campaigns to educate local villagers
on mining office administrative activities. The Project will finance evaluation and follow-up of BAM by
an independent NGO.
1.3. Establishment of a certification program for gemstones. creation of a one-stop-shop for gemstone
- 33 -



exports, and of a gemstones exchange - US$ 3.74 million (9.69% of total proiect costs). This
sub-component will assist in the set up of a national program for the certification and quality control of
gemstones, supported by the creation of a Gemology Institute in Madagascar (IGM) in order to increase
the exports of cut stones, which are currently very low. The Gemology Institute will be run by the
private sector under a management contract. It will house national evaluators of gemstones, promote
intemational standards for cutting and polishing, and will be associated with the one-stop-shop for
gemstones export in order to simplify marketing channels and to fight smuggling and fiscal evasion.
Transparency in gemstones commercialization will be promoted through simplification of administrative
procedures for export, their organization in a single government institution, and creation of rough
gemstones exchanges run by the private sector. Development of a program for the certification and
quality control of Malagasy gemstones will be supported by partnerships with international gemstone
evaluation services and laboratories, and academic institutions. The Gemology Institute will also
coordinate a national training program for gemstones cutting. The one-stop-shop will be in charge of
certification, evaluation, export and visa services for processed, unprocessed gems, and for jewelry. The
agency will have its own communication budget to carry out a press campaign and will be run by a
private enterprise, assisted by the customs administration, the Ministry of Mines, and the Ministry of
Finance. Government is planning to install it in the Gemology Institute or in the gemstone exchange to be
created in Antananarivo and run by the private sector.
1.4. Strengthening of private sector associations - US$ 0.25 million (0.65% of total project costs).
Created under the previous Mining Code, The National Council of Mines (CNM) is a public/private
institution for policy consultation in the mining sector. The CNM continues to operate under the current
Mining Code, but seldom meets, and its operating procedures are in need of an update. The upcoming
decentralization requires support to the continuation of the set-up process of Provincial Mining Councils.
This sub-component will assess the current status of existing private sector organizations ("chambre de
metiers", associations, cooperatives, groups of local producers) and offer demand-oriented support for
institutional strengthening.
Project Component 2 - US$8.63 million
Key institutional reforms for the decentralized management of mineiral resources.
This component supports measures aimed at strengthening the decentralized management of mineral
resources through re-organization and capacity building of mining public administration at the provincial
and communal level, and the empowerment of communities for the management of their mineral
resources. The focus of the project on the community level includes decentralization of tax collection;
increased responsibility for environmental management and monitoring; capacity building in decision
making and development of economic activities and infrastructure to be implemented with the revenues
arising from mining, including conflict resolution and analysis of alternative economic opportunities, and
linkages to other community-driven networks for access to "business" services, which allow communities
to benefit from different economic opportunities. These activities are grouped into four sub-components
as follows:
2.1. Institutional adjustment and capacity building of the decentralized public mining institutions - US$
7.06 million (18.3% of total project costs).
This component will act on three levels: central, provincial, and community/commune. On the central
level, the project will direct its efforts to work with the Directorate of Mines and Geology (DMG),
MEM's environmental group, "cellule environnementale miniere" (CEM), and the Mining Cadastre
(BCMM.) Access to BCMM information will be extended to the municipal level to facilitate regular and
effective exchanges of information between the central Cadastre office and the communities on issuance
and availability of mining titles in the community.
- 34 -



The Direction Provinciale des Mines (DIR) will be responsible for environmental management on the
provincial level. Created under PRSM on the central level, CEM will work in cooperation with the
Ministry of Environment, and will create six provincial CEM, Cellule Environnementale Miniere
Provinciale, (CEMDIR). MRGP will sponsor four studies in the pilot regions selected by CEM in three
following categories: (i) strategic studies to measure impact and create an overarching environmental
management strategy; (ii) environmental audit; (iii) social and environmental impact of mining activity to
assess positive and negative results of social, economic, cultural, macro- and micro-economic and fiscal
results of the sector, to provide indicators to monitor the socio-economic performance of the sector and to
propose mechanisms to improve the relationship between mining and the community, and (iv) to update
the national sector environmental and social assessment (SESA) conducted in 1996. The aim of the
studies is to build mining sector capacity and to define sector strategy.
On the communal and community levels, the MGRP will focus on decentralization, NGO work,
governance, management reinforcement, and fiscal system efficiency. About ten communes will be
selected to test the implementation of decentralized management of mineral resources.
Each community program will focus on raising the level of administrative training and integrating mining
sector activities. An NGO will support local authorities on decentralized tax collection management, and
in particular, l'imp6t synthetique, composed of the professional tax, income tax, and others. L'imp6t
synthetique is levied on persons and small enterprises and producers, with annual income less than about
USD2,000, and is used to finance regional investments.
A participative diagnostic will take place on the commune and village levels to determine community
needs in terms of natural resource management and development. On the basis of the participatory
diagnostic, community level activities that can be financed by mining enterprises will be determined in
order to maintain a harmonious relationship within the mining sector. Local procurement will be
improved through the introduction of Community Development Plans (PCD). Multiple sectors will
participate in the process (roads infrastructure, health, education and forestry), and will thus require
inter-industry coordination. In addition, synergies with local projects funded by the Bank and other
donor institutions (USAID, UNDP, and govemmental organizations) will require coordination of
activities. Coordination with USAID on forestry activities will require a harmonization of efforts.
The key objective of this community-level component is to establish a dialogue between administration
and the miner and to bring to the table environmental issues. An NGO, together with BCMM, will apply
the Mining Code, incorporate community demands and inform the authorities on the mining permit
activities.
2.2. Communication campaign - US$ 0.30 million (O. 78% of total project costs). On-going mining sector
reform requires a clear understanding of its objectives and implications by the administration, the private
sector and the affected communities.  In order to achieve consensus over a broad spectrum of
stakeholders, including the population of the mining areas, communication campaigns will be organized
through the local press, radio, and television in liaison with national and provincial media, opinion
leading journalists, specialists in small-scale and artisanal mining, governmental organizations, and
NGOs. Madagascar's regional diversity requires that each campaign be targeted to fit local community
needs. The campaign will be carried out in two stages - definition of the communication strategy, and its
realization. The second part of the sub-component will finance publication of promotional material,
(printed and video presentations) for international events and international magazines in order to
communicate with the international mining community. The preparation stage of the communication
campaign will take no more than six months, and the execution of the campaign is planned to start within
- 35 -



a year of the beginning of the project.
2.3. Trainina program - US$ 0.72 million (1.87% of total proiect costs).  MRGP will finance a
specialized training program to raise human resources capacity and improve mineral resources
governance. Commune authorities and DIR will address the training program as their priority. Travel
studies to Latin America and to other African countries will be financed by the project component. The
training program will have the following components: (i) on-the-job training during each component; (ii)
workshops throughout Madagascar; (iii) basic and specialized training courses carried out by public and
private institutions; (iv) short-term internships and training courses abroad; (v) participation in
international conferences and seminars. International training will take place primarily in European,
North American institutions or in other African and South American countries to assimilate experience
gathered during similar projects.
2.4. Set-up of an Intranet and Internet network within the mining administration - US$ 0.55 million
(1.43% of total proiect costs). This sub-component will create an information system to facilitate
optimum communication among all mining sector stakeholders, private and public. The web server will
link the Mining Cadastre, Gemology Office, APSM, DIRs, and external partners.   Intranet
communication is previewed for some, while other organizations, located further away, will be connected
by a web server. Mining Cadastre and BPGRM information access will be restricted to subscribers. Fees
generated by the subscriptions will be used for system maintenance. Representation on the Internet will
ensure communication and exchange of information with different sector stakeholders.
Project Component 3 - US$ 20.18 million
Promoting private investment and value-added in the sector
3.1. Assistance to the creation of the Mining Sector Promotion Agency (LAPSM - US$ 3.30 million
(8.56% of total proiect costs). The main objective for the creation of the Mining Sector Promotion
Agency (APSM) is to improve the Government's capacity to attract private sector investment by
allocating resources for promotional programs. The APSM will coordinate one-stop-shop certification
procedures under the Law on Large Scale Mining Investments (LGIM), and Government interventions
with respect to artisanal mining in general, to BAM in particular, as well as support to cutting and
polishing of gemstones. In addition, the APSM will manage the communication program on behalf of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines, receive a budget for promotional activities, and assist in the creation of
value-added with small scale mining production in Madagascar. The APSM will also operate a Small
Grants program, which will fund training and promotional activities of individuals and firms in the
minerals sector to aid management, production, marketing, and commercialization.
The APSM programs will be multi-disciplinary in approach and include assistance to the following
activities: (i) small-scale enterprise organization, management and accounting, including the provision of
assistance to encourage small-scale miners to form cooperatives, improve their access to micro-finance,
and identify suitable, well-organized private companies who would be interested in joint-venture
operations; (ii) legal and fiscal matters related to mining and provision of assistance to legalize informal
operations and to enforce the new mining law; (iii) formnation of BPGRM, Base de Promotion de
Gouvernance des Ressources Minerales - a database of geological and geophysical information on
Madagascar's mineral resources, which will integrate geological and mineral resources with
environmental data and serve as a statistical resource for private sector investment, responsible for
dissemination of efficient, safe and environmentally acceptable technologies for small-scale mining:
mining methodology, geology, metallurgy (mineral processing, infrastructure, simple mining economics
and environmental safeguards); (iv) design and implementation of an environmental sensitization,
awareness and prevention campaigns targeted at artisanal miners; (v) establishment of pilot training
- 36 -



centers for small scale miners and for the cutting and polishing of gemstones; (vi) civil management of a
program of matching grants to private operators and communes; and (vii) coordination of efforts with the
on-going Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project to improve health conditions within small
scale and artisanal mining communities. Because Government is in no position to provide business
development services, Government is planning to have the APSM organized as a limited liability
company, with private companies as shareholders.
3.2. Strengthening of Geo-scientific Information Infrastructure - US$ 16.87 mtllion (43.75% of total
proiect costs).  The main objective of this component is to provide basic and reliable geo-scientific
information necessary to facilitate private investment promotion in the mining sector and to support the
planning of social-economical development of the country. In order to achieve this goal, the Project will
finance the following activities:
(a) Airborne Geophysics (US$4.86 million). Airborne geophysics represents a key methodological, cost-
and time-efficient tool for providing information on surface and sub-surface rocks characteristics and
geology, particularly over areas covered by forest and lateritic soils. The proposed Project will finance
magnetometric and spectometric airborne coverage of the four areas (see Figure below) where geological
mapping has been planned. The areas to be flown will amount to a total of about 600,000 line kilometers.
Purchase and installation of specialized software, as well as training of counterparts in collecting and
processing of airborne data will be included in this works contract. Considering the present low level of
airborne geophysics experience in Madagascar, a separate, long-term training program will be
implemented. The survey will be carried out at the earliest stage of project implementation in order to
provide timely data support to the geological mapping activity.
(b) Geological and geochemical mapping (US$10.19 million). The project will finance mineral resources
and environmental management data collection over the most important from the geological perspective
parts of the country, covering about 435,000 square kilometers or 75% of the territory, which will be
surveyed at a 1:500,000 scale. Four sub-areas (see figure below), amounting to about 200,000 square
kilometers have been prioritized with respect to natural resources management, and will be mapped at a
scale of 1:100,000 (airborne surveys will cover the same four areas). Geochemical stream sediment
sampling will be carried out in the northern and eastern areas of Madagascar. Geological and
geochemical field data will be integrated with information from the airborne geophysics survey and
satellite images interpretation, and incorporated into the BPGRM, Base de Promotion de Gouvernance
des Ressources Minerales, or Mineral Resources Governance Database. BPGRM outputs will include
thematic maps, images, databases or reports, produced on a client demand basis under varying formats
(digital print out, CD or others). The project will finance the 1:500,000 activities and the 1:100,000
survey of three of the selected areas, including geochemistry, while the mapping of the fourth sub-area
will be funded by French Cooperation. Particular emphasis will be given at the inception of the activities
to the training of DMG counterparts in modern field and desk techniques, and up-to-date geological
concepts. The project will finance ten investigations addressing issues related to project activities, to be
carried out by students.
- 37 -



EJLevis g6opi,ysiques
VoLtes-~~0etg6logiue
Rserves et
zones prot6gies
Map showing the distribution of areas
selected for mapping at 1:100,000 scale
and protected areas.
(c) Mineral Resources Governance Promotion Database (US$.89 million).
The set-up and management of an efficient information system will link the wealth of geo-data to be
assembled during the scope of the project with its potential clients. The proposed project will finance the
contracting of a consulting firm which will be responsible for the modernization of the existing
information system, including information policy definition, institutional set-up and training, and the
purchase of software (including an updated GIS) and hardware. In particular, the firm will develop
within DGEM the capacity to process and disseminate geo-scientific on-demand data to multi-sectoral
clients. All relevant information will be collected, digitized and stored into the Base de Promotion de
Gouvernance des Ressources Minerales, (BPGRM). Optimized use of the information for development
purposes will depend largely on technical capacity of the counterparts, sustainability of system
maintenance, and distribution of information.
(d) Technical coordination and supervision (US$0.83 million). The Project will finance the engagement
of supervising consultants, with experience in contracting/supervising geophysical airborne surveys,
geological mapping, remote sensing, and establishment and operation of mineral information systems,
who will oversee the technical activities to be carried out within the present component. These
supervisors will oversee the works, evaluate the product's quality and advise the Project Management
Unit, evaluate bidding documents, assist in the coordination of training programs to strengthen the
capacity of institutional technical staff, and disseminate products and information generated by the
project.
(e) Consultation and information related to geo-scientific infrastructure (US$0.1 million). With the
financial support of the project, a consultative committee will be established, to integrate representatives
- 38 -



from the UCPM and the different Project components, the Ministry of Environment, ONE, ANGAP and
NGOs active within the different regions of the country in order to optirmize the potential developmental
benefits of geological information application. The aforementioned committee will inform and consult
the communities on the scheduled mapping activities and their potential impacts. The committee will
define the channels to distribute the available data to potential clients and to the general clients in the
appropriate formats - publications, papers, CD-ROM, and the Internet. Data monitoring will take place
to avoid misuse of information, which could cause negative social or environmental impacts (e.g.
exploration in protected areas). Proper coordination will be established among the different concerned
governmental entities.
Project Component 4 - US$2.67 million
Project Coordination and Management.
The Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) established as the management structure for the Mining
Sector Reform Project shall continue to administrate and supervise the proposed Project's activities. The
UCPM will be responsible for: (a) procurement, including all contracting for works and purchases, and
the hiring of consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship
with IDA, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and disbursements. The Project shall
finance the recurrent costs (salaries of UCPM staff and operation costs), extemal auditing and accounting
assistance (consultants), short term consultants for the assistance to the UCPM for the supervision of the
Project, equipment and vehicles and training of the UCPM staff in World Bank procedures. The adequate
operation of the UCPM is a key factor for the implementation of the Project. The UCPM shall ensure the
coordination between the different institutions participating in the Project as well as other state and
private institutions stakeholders in the Project's objectives. The UCPM shall also be the direct link to the
World Bank concerning the Project implementation. In addition, the project will set up a Steering
committee, composed of MEM, the Ministry of Budget and Decentralization, Ministry of the
Environment, the Mining Cadastre, and others. The members of the committee will represent the
interests of their respective institutions, coordinate Project activities, and approve annual budgets, work
plans and financial audits.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Cosis
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURC ES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
-'Local  -   Foreign        Total
Project CostCBy Com0nentI-,               US$m1ilioii  U<$rilion     US.$nmillion
1. Strengthening transparency and governance in mining     3.45         2.57          6.02
2. Key institutional reforms for the decentralized management  6.20      2.07         8.27
of mineral resources
3. Promoting private investments and value-added in the sector  6.08    13.34        19.42
4. Project Coordination and Management                     2.05          0.55         2.60
PPF                                                        0.00          0.95         0.95
Total Baseline Cost                                       17.78         19.48        37.25
Physical Contingencies                                    0.14          0.28         0.42
Price Contingencies                                       0.28          0.70         0.98
Total Project Cos                18.20         20.46        38.65
Total Financing Required              18.20         20.46        38.65
,,  ., t :  ;,;; ;4 -,.. 24, 1 . ,^  -  t   ., Lo'ca.  i Foreign  ' Total
Project Cost By Category,       "       US $million  - US $miilion  US $million
Goods                                                        0.92          2.15          3.07
Works                                                        1.05          4.65          5.70
Services                                                    11.30         10.37         21.67
Training                                                     0.73          1.35          2.09
Recurrent costs                                              3.19          0.00          3.19
Small Grants Program                                         0.60          0.00          0.60
PPF                                                          0.00          0.95          0.95
Contingencies                                                0.42          0.98          1.40
Total Project Costs1     18.20         20.46         38.65
Total Financing Required      18.20         20.46        38.65
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 38 65 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 82 79%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 40 -



Annex 4 Economic and Financial Assessment Summary
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Madagascar's total exports in 2000 were about US$829 million, of which 4.5 percent were minerals
exports (equivalent to US$37 million). Three minerals - chromite, graphite, and mica represent 37%
percent of minerals exports. Precious stones take up a majority of Madagascar's exports, totaling 56% of
declared mining production in 2000, while gold production and exports go largely unreported.
The most feasible projected investment in mining and minerals exploitation is expected from QMM
Ilmenite Project in the Fort Dauphin region. The QMM Ilmenite Project investment would take place in
2005, with production starting in 2006. Another investment, by Phelps Dodge, has been discussed near
Moramanga, but remains less likely. Madagascar's rich mineral deposits continue to attract interest from
foreign firms, with a surge in interest in exploration after the political crisis.
To test the possible contributions of mining to the economy, two scenanos have been constructed,
base-case and best-case. The projections are based on the projects currently in advanced preparation
stages and on assumptions about smuggled production. The results of this analysis compare the last year
for which production and exports indicators are available, 2000, with the last year of the project - 2008.
Projections for mining production by the end of the project in year 2008 can be done under two
scenarios:
Base case scenario. I large-scale project => mining production: US$ 143 million.
Best case scenario: 2 large-scale projects => mining production: US$ 378 million.
Madagascar Mineral Production Projections under the Base-Case and Best-Case Scenarios by
2008 (US$ million)
Scenario                                2000        2008 (base-case)      2008 (best-case)
Gold                                    0.15                    10                    20
Gemstones                                 21                    40                    80
Graphite                                 7.5                   7.5                   7.5
Chromnite                                6.                    6.                    6.0
Mica                                    0.48                  0.48                  0.48
Ilmenite                                   (                    80                    80
Nickel               L                       _      _X                               185
Key Assumptions:
1. QMM - Total investment: $500 million (2005-2008), including mine and related infrastructure;
Annual Exports of $80 million after 2006.
2. Phelps Dodge - Total investment: $500 million (2006-2008), leading to Annual Exports of nickel
rising from 0 to $185 million.
- 41 -



3. Gold - Current declared production rests at the mere US$150,000 a year. It is anticipated that the
actual production is much higher, and much of the production goes unreported. Best-case scenario:
Average reported production increases to US$20 million (2 tonnes) a year. Base-case scenario: Reported
production increases to US$10 million (I tonne) a year by 2008.
4. Gemstones - Under the Best-case scenario, it is expected that the declared production of gemstones by
artisanal miners will increase to US$ 80 million. The increase in production value will be achieved from
value added.
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
| IM!PLEMNTATI n              -             ,
Year 1     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4   | Year 5| Year 6       Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.3        4.5        6.1        7.4       8.1        7.7      1.2
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.6       0.6        0.6       0.6        0.4       0.4
Total Project Costs          0.5        5.1        6.7        8.0       8.7       8.1       1.6
Total Financing              0.5        5.1        6.7       8.0        8.7       8.1       1.6
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.3        3.9       5.5        6.8       7.5       7.2        0.9
Govemment                  0.3        0.7       0.7        0.7        0.7      0.7        0.7
Central                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.2        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.6        5.1        6.7        8.0       8.7       8.1        1.6
Main assumptions:
- 43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERMANCE PROJECT
Procurement
General
1.    A new Procurement Code was issued in 1998 and the Bank ascertained that deficient features
identified in the 1995 CPAR have been properly addressed. No special exceptions, permits or licenses
need to be specified in the Credit documents for international competitive bidding since Madagascar
procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions of local
regulations.
Use of Bank Guidelines
2.     Goods and works financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996,
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), and
Standard Evaluation Report (SER) will be used for both International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. NCB advertised locally will be carried out in
accordance with the Madagascar's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that
they assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank
Guidelines. For NCB procedures, the Government gave assurance during negotiations that the following
principles would be adhered to: (i) all bids would be submitted in one envelope to be opened publicly;
(ii) point systems would not be used for bid evaluation for works; (iii) the award of contracts would be
announced to all bidders; (iv) any bidder would be given adequate response time (at least four weeks) for
preparation and submission of bids; (v) bid evaluation and bidder qualification criteria would be clearly
specified in bidding/pre-qualification documents and will not be applied arbitrarily; (vi) eligible firms
would not be precluded from participation; (vii) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors
and suppliers; (viii) contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with
predetermined and transparent methods; (ix) bid evaluation reports would clearly state the reasons to
reject any non-responsive bid and (x) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding
documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual would be submitted to and found acceptable by
IDA.
3.     Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for
the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997
and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposals (SRP) as developed by the Bank will be used for
the selection of consulting firms. Simplified contracts, acceptable to the Bank, will be used for short term
assignements, i.e. those not exceeding six months, or for those costing less than USD200,000. The
Government has been briefed during appraisal as well as negotiations about the features of the most
recent consultants Guidelines, in particular with respect to advertisement, proposals opening and the
various steps of IDA review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
4.     Procurement of Works. The project will finance works contracts for an estimated total amount of
USD5.96 million equivalent, of which IDA will finance USD5.73 million, including (i) civil works
related to the rehabilitation and improvement of existing facilities to provide adequate office space to the
sector institutions; (ii) publication of promotion and educational materials, scientific documents and
maps; and (iii) an airborne geophysical survey. Considering the small value amount of each of the
- 44 -



planned rehabilitation and improvement contracts, civil works procurement, representing an aggregate
amount of USD0.97 million, shall be carried out through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures. Contracts for publications, each estimated to cost less than USD50,000 and representing an
aggregate amount of USD160,000, will be procured through quotations procedures (NCB procedures
would be applied in the case - at present unscheduled - a contract with an estimated cost greater than
USD50,000 would be necessary). The contract related to the airborne geophysical survey represents an
estimated cost of USD4.92 million and will be procured according to International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures, with post-qualification.
5.     Procurement of Goods. The project will finance the purchase of goods for an estimated total
amound of USD3.19 million equivalent, of which IDA will finance USD2.88 million, including (i)
gemologic equipment, (ii) office and field equipment and furnitures, (iii) hardware and software, (iv)
vehicles and (v) sector-related scientific, technical and financial books and documentation. Most of the
goods will be procured as packages through (a) ICB procedures when costing more than USD250,000 per
package, for a total aggregate of USD1.31 million, and including vehicles (2 packages for an estimated
total of USD0.84 million); precious and semi-precious stones processing equipment (1 package at an
estimated total cost of USD0.26 million) and mineralogical and geochemical sample preparation
equipment (1 package at an estimated cost of USD0.20 million); (b) NCB when costing between
USD250,000 and 50,000, to a total aggregate of USD1.24 million, including vehicles (1 package at an
estimated cost of USDO.125 million), office equipment (4 packages at an estimated cost of USD0.36
million), field equipment (1 package at an estimated cost of USD0.12 million), instruments (1 package at
an estimated cost of USD0.07 million), and hardware and software (4 packages at a total estimated cost
of USD0.55 million); and (c) National Shopping (NS) procedures acceptable to the Bank, based on the
evaluation of at least three price quotations and in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines, for items costing less than USD50,000, to a total aggregate of USD0.64 million,
including office equipment, furniture, training materials, office supplies and documentation. Part of the
specialized instruments (estimated cost of USD0.16 million) to equip the planned Gemology Institute
will be purchased using credit proceeds within the framework of the parallel financing agreement with
USAID regarding the involvement of the Gemology Institute of America.
6.     Consultancy Services and Training. The project will finance the contracting of consultancy
services for studies, technical assistance and training up to an estimated total amount of USD24.61
million, of which USD19.06 million will be financed by IDA.
Firms. Firms will be recruited on the basis of the Quality and Costs Based selection (QCBS)
method, for an estimated aggregate of USD13.48 million, using the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals, to provide services including (i) the update of the new mining legislation; (ii) the technical
assistance for the institutional set-up and strengthening, and for the launching of the certification
program for gemstones; (iii) the contracting of assistance for the decentralized management of mineral
resources; (iv) environmental and socio-economic studies, (v) geological information infrastructure
related services and (vi) the project's auditors. Exceptions to the QCBS method, for an estimated
aggregate of USD2.02 million, will include the use of Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
(SBCQ) for the contracting of ONGs and/or consultants to assist the government to update the regulatory
framework and to set-up the BAMs; and of Single Sourcing to (i) extend the contract of firms contracted
under the PPF (using as a rule QCBS) to assist the government in designing and supervising specific
sub-components and (ii) to contract the Geological Surveys of the United States and of South Africa,
within the framework of bilateral project financing agreements with both countries. For contracts based
on a short list of consultants estimated to cost USD50,000 or less per contract, the short list may consist
entirely of national consultants if a minimum of three qualified ones are available.
Individuals. Individuals will be recruited in cases where a firm is not needed. Such individuals
will be selected and recruited on the basis of qualification and experience in accordance with Bank
- 45 -



Guidelines, for an estimated aggregate amount of USD4.87 million.
7.     Small grants. Small grants for a total aggregate of USD0.63 million equivalent will be awarded
to artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) organizations/enterprises - from exploitation to processing and
commercialization -, and to organizations working with ASM communities or communities affected by
ASM, to carry out projects aiming at the improvement of livelihood, environmental and/or working
conditions in relation with this sub-sector activities. Financing would not exceed USD10,000 equivalent
per project and they will have a maximum duration of 6 months. They will be implemented by the
beneficiaries themselves. On the basis of periodical invitation to present proposals (about three times a
year), the projects would be filtered, selected and approved through a three steps procedure, involving a
technical and institutional evaluation by a committee involving representatives from the MEM, from the
Civil Society, external experts and the Bank. Criteria and procedures are defined in the Fund Manual of
Procedures (FMP), acceptable to IDA, and part of the PIP. The implementation may involve a mixture of
force account by the beneficiaries, consultancy services, small civil works with artisans, purchase of
equipment or materials and/or expenditures related to training. These activities would come under a
Grant Agreement between the MRGP Coordinating unit (and, once established, the Agence de Promotion
du Secteur Minier - APSM) and the beneficiary. Procurement of services, works and goods under these
contracts would follow the procedures defined in the FMP. Monitoring and ex-post audits will be carried
out by the MRGP Coordinating Unit and, on a selective basis, by the Bank.
8.    Incremental Recurrent Costs. The project would finance incremental recurrent costs up to an
amount of USD3,31 million equivalent. Incremental recurrent cost would include (i) expenditures for the
contracting of auxiliary personnel required for the implementation of the project, to a total aggregate of
USD0.62 million); (ii) expenditures and supplies for the operation and maintenance of facilities required
for the implementation of the project (such as expenditures for office supplies, rental fees, services,
operation and maintenance of equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit), as well as for
domestic and international travel and per diems related to project implementation activities, to a total
aggregate of USD2.69 million. All procurement within this category shall be done according to the
Project Implementation Plan manual. The approval by IDA and the adoption by MEM of this manual is a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit, and any amendment to such manual will have to be also
acceptable to IDA.
Advertising
9.     A general procurement notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued upon Board Approval in the
United Nations Development Business listing all contracts above US$ 500,000 for works and US$
250,000 for consultants. It would be updated annually for any outstanding major procurement. Specific
Procurement Notices for works to be procured by ICB will be advertised in the national press of wide
distribution and internationally. Requests for expression of interest will be published in local newspapers
and in the UNDB for consultancy contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 250,000. Responses will be
recorded in a register established at the UCPM. Since a large portion of the Credit funds will be used for
technical assistance and consulting assignments, early attention will be given to advance planning of
recruitment and timely search for expressions of interest through international advertising to obtain the
best possible pool of candidates from which strong short lists can be compiled. The related bidding
documents, as applicable, will not be released - or the short list for consultant services will not be
prepared - before eight weeks after the GPN has been published. Specific procurement notices will be
advertised in the national press of wide circulation and internationally for large contracts. Sufficient time
will be allowed to obtain bid documents and to prepare bids.
IDA Review
10.    All contracts for construction of civil works above US$500,000 and for goods above
US$250,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's standard bidding
- 46 -



documents will considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review will primarily focus on
invitations to bid, bid data sheets, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of
requirement and other contract specific items. The review process would cover about 80 percent of the
total value of the amount contracted for works. Procurement post review of contracts awarded below the
threshold levels will apply and should cover 20% of contract in term of number, in the event samples of
post reviews indicate major problems, additional reviews, financed by the Borrower, should cover the
remaining portion of contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed and agreed
upon with IDA prior to Credit effectiveness.
1l.    For consultant services, prior review will include the review of budgets, short-lists, selections
procedures, terms of reference, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts.
Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and US$ 50,000 equivalent respectively. However, IDA prior
review will apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source
hiring, to assigm-nents of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above the US$
100,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to
the technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and more than US$
50,000 the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the
financial proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be
maintained by the borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The Project
Unit will be required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA.
The Project Unit will submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement package
in progress and completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
12.    Procurement responsibility for the project rests with the respective services within UCPM.
UCPM will be responsible for the quality of these procurements and adherence to Bank procedures. The
tasks of UCPM will comprise: (a) maintaining a register of all interested bidders; (b) maintaining a
detailed list of technical specifications of goods and services to be financed by the project; (c)
preparation of the procurement plan and calendar; (d) preparation and/or finalization of pre-qualification
/bidding documents and requests for proposals; (e) bid evaluation and preparation of evaluation reports;
(f) contract approval process; (g) receipt of goods and services and dispatching; and (h) processing
intemational and local price quotations.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
13.    A procurement capacity assessment was conducted during project's appraisal, and the findings
are highlighted in the table below. During appraisal, assurance was given thaL UCPM will (a) recruit a
procurement specialist; (b) submit a draft procurement plan for the first year acceptable to IDA; and (c)
give assurance that it will (i) apply the agreed procurement procedures and arrangements; (ii) use
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank (annexed to the Manual of Procedures of the PIP),
and (iii) annually review the procurement plan with IDA.
Action Plan to Strengthen UCPM's Procurement Management Capacity
Tasks              Responsability               Due Date
Finalization of project Manual  UCPM               Prior to project effectiveness
of Procedures
Establishment of filing system   UCPM             Prior to project effectiveness
Recruitment of Procurement       UCPM                     Completed
-47 -



| Officer(s) for UCPM       l
Procurement Plan
14.    The Procurement Plan for works, goods and services to be procured by UCPM during the first
implementation year of the project has been agreed between the Government and the Bank during
negotiations. It will be part of the Project Implementation Plan (to be approved by Government and
acceptable to the Bank before credit effectiveness). For each subsequent year, the procurement plan
related to the agreed Annual Work Program will be updated and submitted to the Bank for review and
approval. These plans show and will show the step-by-step procedures for procurement, contract
packages for goods, works and consultants services and training, estimated cost and the
procurement/selection method, the activities which follow procurement, such as manufacture, shipment,
delivery and installation of goods; mobilization, construction and completion of works. It is mandatory
that all procurement be carried out in accordance with the formally agreed procurement plan (original
and formally up-dated). Therefore, for the purpose of this project, agreed Procurement Plans will
determine procurement methods and it is not necessary to set up aggregate total amounts.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
.  ,   > .  . ,,, '~> .  Procurernent 1thod'  ',    -"
Expenditure Category        IC. . , t                                             Tta Cost
1. Works                     4.83           0.97          0.16            -           5.96
(4.83)        (0.77)        (0.13)           -          (5.73)
2. Goods                     1.31           1.24          0.64            -           3.19
(1.31)        (1.03)        (0.54)           -          (2.88)
3. Services                                  -            20.27         2.16          22.43
-  -        (16.92)          -          (16.92)
4. Training                                  -            2.14          0.04          2.18
-            (2.14)          -           (2.14)
5. Small Grants                              -            0.63            -           0.63
-  -         (0.63)          -           (0.63)
6. Incremental recurrent       -             -            3.31            -            3.31
costs                                       -           (2.75)          -           (2.75)
7. P.P.F.                                    -            0.95            -            0.95
-  -        (0.95)           -           (0.95)
Total                        6.14           2.21          28.10          2.20         38.65
(6.14)         (1.80)        (24.06)          -          (32.00)
i/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include
contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing
-48 -



the project, and (fi) re-lending project fimds to local government units.
-49 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
S--lzcion Cdz aod
Consultant SGr,ices -
Euponditure Category  GCBS   OBS     S'-$L  - LCS     . 0   ; 1 hg-   lH.B.F. Total Coea
A. Firms              13.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.87     1.15    2.06    17.56
(11.33)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.71)   (0.97)  (0.00)  (13.01)
B. Individuals        0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    4.77    0.00     0.10     4.87
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.91)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.91)
Total  13.48   0.00    0.00    0.00     5.64    1.15    2.16     22.43
_  (11.33)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (4.62)  (0.97)  (0.00)  (16.92)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 50 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods costing more than US$ 250,000 and works costing more than US$ 500,000 per contract per
contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subjected to post review.
All procurement documents for consulting contracts with firms for amounts exceeding US$ 100,000 per
contract selected on the basis of a short list and any contract involving individual consultants exceeding
US$50,000 per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, for consultant contracts with
firms exceeding US$ 100,000 per contract, the technical evaluation report will also be required by IDA
for prior review. All other contracts will be subjected to post-review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
- -'--' , Contract Value  I                        ' r' . Coifrtacts Subject.to
'1Thresho'ld             rc u'Prbc6'fent-  r.'.T, PriorReview.
Expen-diture Category     (US$ thousands). -        , IMethod '-   * -S$ m  U     illion
1. Works                        >500                    ICB                    All/4.9
50-500                   NCB                     None
<50                Price quotations            None
2. Goods                        >250                     ICB                   All/1.31
50-250                   NCB                     None
<50               National Shopping            None
3. Services
Consultants, training,
workshops and other
services:                       >100                 QCBS, Other              All/14.65
Firms                           <100                  CQ, Other                 None
Individuals                      >50                     CQ                    All/1.1
<50                     LCS                     None
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  USD 22.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 51 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The credit would be disbursed over a period of 60 months (the Project completion date would be June 30,
2008 and the Credit closing date is December 31, 2008), as follows: (i) 100 percent of foreign and 80
percent of local expenditures for contract works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local
expenditures for goods; (iii) 85 percent of foreign and 75% of local expenditures for consultancies
(including audits); (iv) 100 percent for training and seminars; (v) 100 percent of expenditures for small
grants, and (vi) 90 percent for incremental operating costs. Disbursement of Credit proceeds would be
made against six categories (base costs): (i) contract works (USD5.47 million); (ii) goods (USD2.74
million); (iii) consulting contracts (USD16.16 million); (iv) training and workshops (USD2.05 million);
(v) small grants (USD0.60 million), and (vi) incremental operating costs, including audits (USD2.63
million). A Project Preparation Facility was requested for an amount of USD0.95 million. Unallocated
contingency allowances amount to about 4 percent of total project base costs.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenrditure?category'      AMount in US$nmillion     .- 'Fina ncing Percentage
1. Works                                  5.47          100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of
local expenditures
2. Goods                                  2.74          100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of
local expenditures
3. Consultants' Services and Audits       16.16          85 percent of foreign and 75 percent of
local expenditures
4. Training                               2.05               100 percent of expenditures
5. Incremental recurrent costs            2.63                90 percent of expenditures
6. Small Grants                           0.60               100 percent of expenditures
7. PPF refinancing                        0.95
8. Unallocated                             1.40
Total Project Costs                       32.00
Total                                     32.00
Disbursement Arrangements:
Method of Disbursement. The borrower will use transaction-based disbursements (traditional mode) in
accordance with procedures outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
Minimum Application Size. The minimum application size for direct payments, to be withdrawn directly
from the Credit Account, and special commitments is $400,000, representing 20% of the special account
authorized allocation.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against Statement of Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring
the Bank's prior review. Therefore disbursements for all contracts for: goods of less than US$ 250,000,
for works of less than USD500,000, for consulting services, training and publications by firms and
individuals of less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively; and all incremental operating
expenses, training, and small grants would be made on the basis of SOEs and certified by the UCPM.
- 52 -



SOE statements will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. All SOEs
supporting documentation will be kept therefore by the UCPM and made available for review by bank
supervision missions and external auditors.
Special account:
Payments from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the UCPM from a Special Account. The
Special Account would be maintained in US dollars in a commercial bank selected by the Borrower and
acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months of eligible
expenditures, would be USD 2,000,000; however, the initial allocation would be limited to USD
1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into the Bank shall be equal to or exceed SDR 2,200,000. The
Special Account would be managed by the UCPM which would be responsible for preparing
disbursement requests. These requests would be submitted on a monthly basis. Replenishment requests
would be submitted on a monthly basis and would be supported by reconciled bank statements and other
required documents. Disbursements will be made under the authorized signature from a designated
representative of the Borrower. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
Financial Management Assessment
Country issues. The capacity of the accounting profession in Madagascar remains weak. A number of
accounting firms were operating below the international standards due to the lack of regulatory
framework, proper accounting and auditing standards, clearly defined guidelines and procedures for
systematic peer reviews, continuing education requirements, quality control mechanisms to harmonize
methodology. To improve the capacity and the competitiveness of the local auditing firms, the following
measures have been taken: i) inclusion of a component "Reinforcement of the accounting profession" in
the Poverty Reduction and Institutional Development Technical Assistant Project which will be
presented to the Board in 2003; ii) obligation for local auditors to enter into partnership with
international accounting firms while auditing Bank/IDA financed projects in order to improve the quality
of audit reports and ensure practical training and real transfer of methodology in the areas of
organization and execution of audit assignments; iii) the use of QCBS method rather than Least Cost for
the recruitment of auditors. The assessment carried out during the pre-appraisal stage by an IDA
accredited specialist determined that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However the implementation of a short-term action plan is needed to strengthen the
financial management system in place and to build its capacity to produce quarterly Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) with the designed format provided in the Annex A of the FMRs Guidelines for World
Bank-financed Projects. The following measures will be taken prior to credit effectiveness to strengthen
the project's financial management system: i) review of the project's Chart of accounts to reflect
components and activities outlined in the PAD to satisfy reporting requirements; ii) update of the current
accounting manual of procedures in order to include the job description of the new staff to be recruited,
the new chart of accounts and the content and format of FMRs that will be prepared by the project; iii)
recruitment, on a competitive basis, of an accounting assistant, a procurement specialist and a monitoring
and evaluation specialist; iv) adjustment of the accounting software acquired by the project to allow the
production on a quarterly basis of Financial Monitoring Reports required by IDA; v) recruitment of an
audit firm acceptable to IDA to audit the project accounts.
- 53 -



Organizational structure. The organizational structure in place defines the lines of responsibilities and
authority that exist and seems appropriate for planning, directing and controlling operations. However the
mission noticed that there are vacancies both in procurement and monitoring and evaluation. In addition,
the number of the accountant in place (only one) is not enough to ensure proper segregation of duties in
financial management area. These shortcomings were addressed before negotiations as it is clear that no
project can run efficiently without an adequate number of skilled and experienced staff.
Accounting and budgeting system. The accounting system in place uses journals, ledgers and trial
balances to enter and summarize transactions. It operates on a double entry accrual principles and follows
generally accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. However the current chart of accounts must be
reviewed to ensure timely production of both financial statements and FMRs in compliance with IDA
requirements. For this purpose the project's expenditure should be classified by useful categories such as
by components and activities needed to carry out the project as reflected in the PAD. To help the
accounting staff in performing their duties, the existing accounting manual of procedures must be also
updated to include the new chart of accounts and the model of FMRs to be prepared by the project. The
existing computerized system used by the UCPM allows different functions such as record-keeping,
bank reconciliation, budgeting (including tracking variances between actual and planned cost and
activities), fixed assets management and preparation of the project financial statements. But it can't
produce yet quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) with the designed format presented in the
Annex A of the FMR Guidelines issued in November 30, 2001, by the World Bank. To allow timely
production of quarterly FMRs, the UCPM is invited to ask the manufacturer to bring necessary
adjustments to the accounting software in place. The review of the chart of accounts, the update of the
accounting manual of procedures, the implementation of the new computerized system and users training
should be completed before effectiveness.
Internal control. The mission noted that the project has a good internal control system: proper
authorization to initiate and execute transactions, budgeting system, adequate measures for safeguarding
assets (fixed assets, furniture, cash and bank balances). An accounting manual of procedures is also
available, describing (i) the previous project organizational structure and staff job description; (ii) the
accounting system: charts of accounts, cost accounting and budget coding, accounting standards to be
applied for the project, flowcharts of the accounting transactions and recordings, the document flow
(with format and content) and timing of the project's financial statements; (iii) the various operational
procedures including budget management (planning, execution, and monitoring) fixed assets
management, procurement of goods and services, disbursement etc.; and (iv) internal control procedures.
However this manual must be updated in order to include the new chart of accounts, the job description
of the new staff to be recruited and the content and format of FMRs that will be prepared by the project
The accountant in place is qualified and has relevant experience in accounting but the number is not
enough (only one) to ensure adequate separation of duties in financial management area. The mission
considers therefore appropriate the recruitment of a second accountant.
Significant Weaknesses                          Resolution
Chart of accounts not reflecting yet project  Review of the chart of accounts to reflect new
components and activities outlined in the  components and activities outlined in the
PAD.                                       PCD/PAD.
Incapacity of the project financial management  Invitation of the manufacturer of the existing
system to produce quarterly FMRs.          accounting  software  to  bring  necessary
adjustments and put in place a computerized
- 54 -



system capable of producing quarterly FMRs.
Update of the existing accounting manual o
procedures to reflect changes in the project Char
of accounts and present the models of FMRs to
be prepared by the project.
Users training.
Inadequate number of the accounting staff and Recruitment of a procurement specialist, a M &
absence of proper separation of duties in financia E specialist and second accountant to permit an
management area. Vacancies in procurement and appropriate separation of duties in financial
monitoring & evaluation.                   management   area  (record-keeping,  control,
supervision).
Absence of acceptable arrangement in       Recruitment of an accounting firm acceptable t
auditing.                                  IDA to carry out the audit of project accounts.
Implementinj Entities: The Ministry of Energy and Mines, through the existing UCPM ( Mining Project
Coordination Unit) will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The UCPM will
continue to operate, coordinating project implementation, and managing procurement, financial
management, disbursement, project monitonng, reporting and evaluation.
Funds Flow:   The flow of funds from IDA credit and the government is presented as follows:
World Bank                   Government
(Credit funds)               (Counterpart funds)
UCPM:
Special Account
Suppliers of goods, works and
services
To ensure timely and reliable flow of funds, a special account will be opened in a local commercial bank
under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The special account would be replenished on the basis of
documentary evidence, provided to IDA by UCPM, of payments made from the account for works, goods
and services that are eligible for financing under the credit. All supporting documents will be retained by
UCPM and made available for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors. The
counterpart funds from the government will be used for the purpose of defraying the cost of expenditures
not financed by the credit and necessary for the execution of the project.
- 55 -



Accounting Policies and Procedures. The Project is required to maintain records and books of accounts
in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The accounting system operates on an
accrual basis. The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention. Project
accounts will be maintained in Malagasy currency (FMG). As a result, the opening and closing balances
of the SA held in $ US should be translated therefore at the rate ruling on the opening and closing dates,
respectively. Expenditures made out of the SA should be stated at the rate ruling on the transaction
dates. The actual exchange rates used should be disclosed.
Fixed assets bought for use by the UCPM are depreciated at the following rates:
o Furniture and equipment: 20%
o Vehicles: 20%
o Computers: 30%
Consumable stores are written off on purchase.
Internal 4udit. Given the size of the project and since its organizational structure is centralized, an
internal audit function is not really needed at the present time. However, to ensure the efficient use of
funds, the Chief accountant of the UCPM in collaboration with Monitoring & Evaluation specialist could
play the role of internal auditor. For this purpose he will assure the supervision of the project financial
management and make sure that the project is complying with all specific procedures (on procurement,
financial management disbursement) and agreements described in the procedures manualU DCA.
External Audit. The project financial statements will be audited annually by independent and qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with Intemational Standards of Auditing. The auditors will
provide separated opinion on the financial statements, the special accounts and statements of
expenditures. The auditors will be also required to carry out a comprehensive review of the internal
control procedures and provide a management report outlining any recommendations for their
improvement. The audit report will be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year. The auditors should be recruited prior to effectiveness. The terms of reference of the audit
will be reviewed by the financial management specialist of the Bank/IDA.
Reporting and Monitoring. The UCPM shall put in place a computerized financial management system
capable of producing the following reports:
1) Annual financial statements comprising and not being limited to:
a)     Summary of sources and uses of funds by components/ project activities with a balance
sheet;
b)     Special Accounts statements;
c)     Statement of Expenditures;
d)     Other relevant financial report required for the project management.
2) Ouarterly FMRs. The objective of the FMRs is to provide the Bank with sufficient information to
determine whether: (i) funds disbursed to the project are being used for the purpose intended; (ii)
project implementation is on track; and (iii) budgeted costs will not be exceeded. The FMRs
comprises a financial reports, physical progress reports and procurement reports to facilitate
project monitoring. The FMR should be submitted to TL within 45 days of the end of the
reporting period (quarter).
Models of these reports were determined during project appraisal and were agreed at negotiations. Their
content and format will be presented in the project accounting manual of procedures.
- 56 -



Information Systems. The project will use a computerized and integrated financial management system
capable of recording and producing in a timely manner financial reports required for managing and
monitoring project activities. This computerized system would in particular facilitate: annual
programming of activities and project resources, record-keeping (general accounting and cost
accounting), financial and budgetary management of the project, fixed assets management, procurement
management, follow-up of project implementation progress, monitoring of key indicators to assess the
results and impact of the project, preparation of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports as required by
the Bank/IDA. The TORs of the consultant in charge of the adjustment of the existing computerized
system, as well as the implementation of the new one will be reviewed by the Bank Financial
Management Specialist. A fully functioning financial management system capable of producing FMRs is
a condition of negotiations.
Impact of procurement arranzements. Procurement arrangements present substantial risk since the staff
in charge of the procurement is not in place yet. The Bank staff will carry out periodic SOE reviews to
ensure the use of funds in conformity with Bank procedures.
Action Plan. The present action plan agreed with the borrower describes main actions to be taken to
strengthen the UCPM financial management system and to build its capacity to produce quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports.
Actions                         Date due by        Responsible
1  Agreement on terms of reference for key staff       Completed      UCPM/ IDA
(accountant, procurement specialist, M&E specialist),
extemal auditor and Consultant in charge of the update
and implementation of the accounting manual of
rocedures and MIS.
2   Bid package for transmission to the consultant     Completed      UCPM
(manufacturer of the existing accounting software) in
charge of the update and implementation of the
accounting manual of procedures and MIS.
3  Reception of bid, evaluation, negotiation and signature  Completed  UCPM/Consultant
of contract with the consultant in charge of the update
and implementation of the accounting manual of
rocedures and MIS.
4   Consultant starts the update of the accounting manual
of procedures and adjustment of the existing
computerized system:
*  First draft of the manual for IDA comments     Completed        Consultant
* Final draft incorporating IDA comments;
*  Adjustment and installation of a computerized  Completed        Consultant
financial management system                       Completed        Consultant
5  Appointment of a second accountant, a procurement  Completed      UCPM
specialist and a M&E specialist.
Implementation of the manual of procedures and users  Completed   Consultant
- 57 -



training.                                                        l
6   Recruitment process of external auditors:
o  Finalization of bidding documents;             Completed       UCPM
o  Reception of bids, evaluation, selection.      Completed       UCPM
o  Appointment of external auditors               Completed       UCPM
7   System testing to ensure compliance with management's
expectations and IDA specifications:
o  Prepare test data and expected results;        Completed
o  Perform tests and analyze results;             Completed       Consultant
o  Correct problems and retest;                   Completed
o  Complete users training and start operating the  Completed
system;
o  Obtain user acceptance and approval            05/29/2003      UCPM
8   Production of the first FMRs (July, August,       10/30/2003      UCPM
September 2003) and submit them to the Bank.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Projec Schedu,iet                 -,1 L.  ,.      Plane-,, T'-    '    '       ActuaI~
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      9                            18
First Bank mission (identification)             02/07/2001                   07/02/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     11/24/2002                   11/24/2002
Negotiations                                    02/07/2003                   02/10/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/15/2003
Prepared by:
The World Bank Oil, Gas, Mining and Chemicals Department jointly with the Ministry of Energy and
Mines and the Mining Sector Reform Project Coordination Unit.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant for project preparation
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Paulo de Sa                       Task Team Leader
Gotthard Walser                    Senior Mining Specialist
Raj Soopramanien                   Senior Counsel
Slaheddine Ben-Halima              Senior Procurement Specialist
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson        Procurement Specialist
Peter Van Der Veen                Manager (quality enhancement)
Irene Xenakis                      Operations Advisor (quality enhancement)
Didier Fohlen                      Senior Environmental Specialist (peer reviewer)
Wolfgang Fengler                   Economist (peer reviewer)
Guenter Heidenhof                  Senior Public Sector Specialist (peer reviewer)
Gervais Rakotoarimanana           Financial Management Specialist
Michael Fowler                    Senior Finance Officer
Alexandra Pugachevsky             Operations Analyst
Claude Ginet                      Institutional Consultant
Obinna Okoye                      Temporary
-59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERRNANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, November 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Draft Financial Management Plan, March 2002
C. Other
Analyse diagnostic de la gestion environnementale dans le secteur minier, Cabinet GLW, March 2002.
Etude d'impact environnemental strategique de l'exploitation miniere dans la Zone d'Activite Economique
Speciale (ZAES) de Vatomandry, PAGE, November 2001.
Plan de Gestion Integree de la petite exploitation miniere a Madagascar, ITC/Project Consult, October
2001.
Conditions legales et economiques pour la petite exploitation miniere et les industries en aval A
Madagascar, Dr. Wolfgang Wetzenstein, August 2001.
Etude diagnostique sur 1'exploitation miniere A petite echelle A Madagascar, Jean-Luc Camileri, May
2001.
Formulation d'une politique environnementale miniere a Madagascar, Geosum/Dinika, November 1996.
Environmental Management Plan, GLW, October 2002
Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
26-Mar-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel     Undisb       Orig   Frm Revd
P080345        2003 MG Emergency Economic Recovery Credit              0 00     50 00                 0 00       0 00     36 72      -2 92      0 00
P073689        2003 Rural Transport Project - APL - Phase 2            0 00     80 00                 0 00       0 00     84 08       1 28      0 00
P072160        2002 Second Pnvate Sector Development Projec            0 00     23 80                 0 00       0 00     24 86       7 82      0 00
P072987        2002 Mulusectoral STUHIVMAIDS                           0 00     20 00                 0 00       0 00     19 64      -1 68      0 00
P051922        2001 MG - Rural Development Support Project             0 00     8905                  0 00       0 00     87 17      -8 26      0 00
P055166        2001 COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENTPROJECT                        000     11000                  000        000      8620       -215       000
P062628        2000 Regional Development                               0 00      4 60                 0 00       0 00      4 08       3 55      0 00
P052208        2000 Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitat           0 00      65 00                 0 00       a 00     37 42      11 17      0 00
P051741        2000 Second Health Sector Support Project               0 00     40 00                 0 00       0 00     27 58       9 55      0 00
P052186        1999 MICRO FINANCE                                      0 00     16 40                 0 00       0 00      861        5 37      0 00
P001559        1998 EDUCATION SECTOR DEV                               000      6500                  0 00       0 00     36 25      3689       3 69
P001568        1998 NUTRITION II                                       0 00     27 60                 0 00       0 00      6 45       4 33      0 00
P001564        1998 RURAL WATER SEC PILO                               0 00     17 30                 0 00       0 00      9 80      10 04      0 00
P040596        1997 ENVIRONMENT 11                                     0 00      0.00                 810        0 00      3 00       1 86       0 00
P048697        1997 URBANINFRASTRUCTURE                                000      3500                  000        000      1772       1869       911
P001533        1996 MG ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               0 00     46 00                 0 00       0 00      7 44      10 84      0 00
Total-        000      68975                810         000       49703     10639       1281
- 61 -



MADAGASCAR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1991               BNI                            0.00    2.61     0.00    0.00    0.00    2 61     0.00    0.00
2000                BOA-M                         0.00    0.82     0 56    0.00    0.00     0.82    0.56    0 00
1983/89            Nossi-Be                       0.00    0.14     0.00    0.00    0.00    0 14     000     000
1990/91            AEF FIARO                      0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
1997               AEF GHM                        0 67    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.67    0 00     0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Karibotel                  0.22    0 00     0.00    0 00    0.22    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/93/95         AQUALMA                        0.71    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.71    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         1.60    3.76     0.56     0.00    1.60    3.76     0 56    0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               Besalampy                        15.23      0 00     0.00      0 00
2001               COTONA III                        7.76      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commutment.        23.00      0 00      0 00     0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Madagascar      Africa   income      Development diamond-
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       16 0       674     2,511                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     260       470       430
GNI (Atas method, US$ billions)                        4 1       317      1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-l
Population (%J                                         31         2 5       19
Labor force I%)                                        31         2 6      23       GNI 3,                          Gross
per                    ~~~~~primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                               capita r                    enrollment
Poverty (% of populatlon below natlional poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                30        32        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        55        47        59
Infant mortallty (per 1,000 live births)                84        91        76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              40                               Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (%6 of population)   47        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    33        37        37
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)      102        78        96                Madagascar
Male                                                 104        85       103                  Low-income group
Female                                               100        72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos-
GDP (US$ billions)                              .      2 7        3 9      4 5
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                          8.2       15 0      17 8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     17.9       30 7      24.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                             0 7        7 8       7 7
Gross national savings/GDP                             0 1        9 4       9 5
Current account balance/GDP                            -8.1      -5.6      -5.8     Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                  2.5                          savings
Total debt/GDP                                       146 0      106 2      91 6     s
Total debt service/exports                   27 4     29 1
Present value of debVGDP                                         77 0
Present value of debWexports                                    247.1
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-C5
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.8      2.9      4.8        59                           Madagascar
GDP per capita                      -0.9     -0.1       1 6       2 8                       ---   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        1 2      4 9     15.6       -9 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of lnvestment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agncufture                                   331      33 0       34 9      34.9
Industry                                     14 1     14.2       13.1      13.1     40
Manufacturing                                        11.8                         20-
Services                                     52.8     52 8       52 0      52.0      o
Private consumption                                   90.6       831       85.5    -20     s6    97  9r     99 -       o
General government consumption                         8.7        9.2       6.8                     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                         25 4       37.9      34 4
1981-91  1991-C1      2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2 7      2 0        0 8       4.3    30
Industry                                      2.5      3 2        5.6       8 9
Manufactunng                                 1 5      1 2                         15
Services                                      08       3.5        7.0       62
Private consumption                           0.1      2 6        8 5      10 6            r     57    B     5    oo 0
General government consumption                0 3      4 5        6.4     -21 5    -15
Gross domestic investment                     6 8      7 5       -9 9      38 9                   Exports    import
Imports of goods and services                -3.6      7.4      21 2       12.8
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the rountry (in bold) compared vwth Its income-group avenage If data are rissing, the diamond viil be incomplete
- 63 -



Madagascar
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Inflaln                          --
Domestic pricesInlto
(X change)                                                                        s0
Consumer prlcs                                         8 5      11 9       7 4     40
Implicit GDP deflator                                 13.9       7 1       7 3     20
Government finance
(% of GDP, mncludes curmnt grants)                                                 0 --_----     -   -
Current revenue                                 ..    10.1      12.4      11.1           0M     97     Be    03    00    01
Current budget balance                                -0.1       3 2       1.7             -   GDP deflator   e   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -6 5       -5 7     -6.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1981     1991       2000     2001       Export and Import levels (USS mlil.)
Total exports (fob)                           313     334        829      947      1.250
Coffee                                      112       28         8        14
VanIlla                                       9       47        37        26     1,000
Manufactures                                         159       486        59      750
Total Imports (clf)                           608     518       1,029    1,095 s               mill
Food                                         99       35        67        54
Fuel and energy                             127       71       214       226      250
Capital goods                               191      165       168       182        o
Export price Index (1995=100)                  93       82        87        87
Import price Index (1995=100)                   .       89        92        94                 1Export       OImportG
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .       92        95        93
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991       2000     2001      Current account batance to GDP (YO)
Exports of goods and services                 394     480       1,186    1,321      0
Imports of goods and services                 785     681      1,467     1,668
Resource balance                             -391     -200      -280      -346     -2
Net income                                      .     -195       -74       -90      4-    I      '
Net current transfers                          12      179       135       172       I
Current account balance                        ..     -216      -219      -265
Financing items (net)                          ..      232       247       344      8
Changes In net reserves                                -17       -28       -80     10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          .       90       301       396
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)            271.7   1,835 4   6.767 5   6,588.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composltion of 2000 debt (US$ mill)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1.613    3,908      4,117    4,147
IBRD                                         31      23          0         0                   G 301
IDA                                         155     881      1.378     1,409               F 3
Totaldebtservice                              110      161          .Aa 1,378
IBRD                                          3        5         2         0
IDA                                           1        9        27        20
Composition of net resource flows                                                    E 1,534 -
Officlalgrants                               59      113       147       212
Official creditors                          189      161
Pnvate creditors                             63      -11         ..                                              105
Foreign direct investment                     .
PortfolIo equity                                                  .        .                          0 796
World Bank program
Commitments                                  30       51                         A - IBRD                    E - Bilatoral
Disbursements                                34      106        94        97     B - IDA   D - Othor multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          1        6        17        10     C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flows                                    34      100        77        87
Interest payments                             3        8        12        11
Net transfera                                30       92        65        76
UeveTopment iconomics                                                                                                /I 141(U
- 64 -



Additional Annex 11: LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
MADAGASCAR: MINERAL RESOURCES GOVERNANCE PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
DECLARATION OF MINING POLICY
Owing to its geological circumstances, Madagascar has significant mining potential that is poorly
identified and underexploited owing to the inadequacy of baseline geological and mining
information, explaining the rarity of intemational caliber large-scale mining operations.
Recent discoveries of precious stones deposits and the systematic mining rush phenomenon to which
they have led, call for a specific strategy as well as for rigorous integrated management of these
nonrenewable resources, in terms of extraction, processing, and marketing, so as to derive the
maximum amount of value added.
The government's mining policy is among the ongoing reforms initiated in the context of the Mining
Sector Reform Project (MSRP) with the adoption in 1998 of the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) on
mining which decisively refocused the government's mining policy, shifting the state from the role of
operator to that of a facilitator of pnvate investments and regulator of mining activities as it
disengages from productive activities. The implementation of this mining policy led in 1999 to the
preparation and adoption of a new and modem Mining Code that meets the requirements of the
sector.
Subsequently, MSRP activities have made it possible to update the regulatory framework for the
mining sector, by means of an interministenal decree as well through as the approval by the National
Assembly on November 23, 2001 of a law establishing a special regime for large-scale mining
investments (LGIM). This Law was passed by the Senate in September 2002.
These sweeping reforms establish the path for development of the mining sector through the
promotion of private investment. However, the direct and concrete effects of these reforms on growth
in the sector continue to be attenuated by the absence of other complementary components that
would make it possible to implement the legal and regulatory framework at all levels. It follows that
the sector's contribution to Madagascar's economic and social development is still quite limited.
However, the objective is to make a palpable impact on the mining sector's contribution to the
national economy.
The government's strategic activities aimed at allowing for improved exploitation of the country's
mining potential consistent in:
(i) Improving governance and transparency in the mining sector;
(ii) Providing support to artisanal operators; and
(iii)Promoting private investment in mining throughout the territory, and the decentralized
management of mining resources.
In this sense, the government's mining policy is based on the following key components:
- 65 -



1. lImprovement and application of the legal and regulatory framework
To improve govemance and transparency in the mining sector, the legal and regulatory framework
for the mining sector will be updated.  Particular attention will be devoted to improving
implementation through various actions by the government and the agencies involved in the mining
sector.
The main improvements in the legal framework to be envisaged on a priority basis relate to:
o   Finalization of the implementing provisions called for under the Mining Code or its implementing
decree, as well as those called for under the Law on Large-Scale Mining Investments.
o   Evaluation of the applicability and effectiveness of the provisions already adopted, and the
introduction of improvements as necessary;
o   Improvement of the regulations relating to the marketing of mining products;
o   Strengthening of the linkages and coordination between institutions in the sector and those under the
auspices of other ministries concerned with mining activities (Water and Forests, National Office for
the Environment (ONE), etc.);
o   Tax incentive measures: (i) for exports of cut gemstones and imposing penalties for exports of rough
stones (financial incentive) on the basis of technical definitions prepared by the Madagascar
Gemology Institute-IGM (see A.3.2.); and (ii) for imports of equipment and inputs for jewelry
manufacturing (lapidary) activities;
o   Social legislation for the mining sector and improved protection of classified zones (environmental
management of the mining sector at the decentralized level); and
o   Simplification of the export procedures for gemstones by the establishment of a buying/selling
counter and one-stop Mining/Customs shop for export operations.
2. Grassroots managnement of crisis situations and rushes on arecious materials
In Madagascar, artisanal and small-scale mining exploitation (precious stones and gold washing)
represents an important economic and social undertaking for the rural population. However, the lure
of exceptional profits when new deposits of stones or precious metals are found leads to large-scale
and disorderly population migration which has become impossible for the competent authorities to
control. These population shifts amount to genuine rushes in some areas with new discoveries, such
as Ilakaka, Sakaraha, Vatomandry, Ambondromifehy, Andranondambo, and Andilamenta, with
disastrous consequences on the environment, the cultural and social development of local
communities, and the health of indigenous populations.
In view of the importance of their impact on the country's economic fabric, these informal mining
activities have a primordial role in the national mining policy. The dynamism of precious stone
exploitation in Madagascar makes it necessary to implement grassroots management of such
activities, encompassing the tax, environmental, and social aspects as well as the formalities required
for small mining operations.
In this regard, the government has decided to develop a solution which makes it possible to minimize
the drawbacks associated with anarchistic population movements, while taking the steps necessary to
ensure the maintenance of order, environmental protection, and the combat against smuggling.
The new arrangement proposed for the grassroots management of such situations in the mining sector
is based on the establishment of Mining Administration Bureaus (BAMs) in mining-intense areas,
- 66 -



including local representation of the Ministry of Finance, to ensure collection at the local level of
mining royalties, the observance of regulations on the marketing of gemstones, and the management
of the social and economuc aspects of mining operations. In the context of this arrangement, the
suppression of smuggling and the maintenance of order are carried out in collaboration with the
Ministry of Defense, and environmental rehabilitation with the Ministry of Environment.
The establishment of grassroots management will require great efforts to inform local communities at
the commune and village levels. If village-level miners are to accept and assume ownership of the
BAM system, a number of problems will have to be overcome.
These activities will require public awareness campaigns in local and regional communities which
will be effective only if they entail a participatory approach through local workshops and seminars.
NGOs will be mobilized to assist with carrying out this program.
3. Certification and control of eem marketing
Madagascar enjoys a privileged position in terms of its mineral resources, and has an impressive
variety, quality, and quantity of precious and semiprecious stones. These commodities are the basis
for small-scale and artisanal mining activities, which represent an important social component owing
to their job creation, even though the impact of these activities on the national economy is still
relatively modest in comparison with the amount of mineral resources available.
Despite this currently extremely limited economic impact, mining production remains one of the
main options for Madagascar's development policy and its poverty reduction efforts. The potential
value of the substances mined, as well as the sector's contribution to employment through intensive
informal activities, make it one of the major components of the national economy.
Mining operations consist principally of precious and semiprecious stones in the rough state. This
state of affairs represents a significant loss of income for Malagasy producers as well as for
government tax receipts. Indeed, the value of rough stones is significantly lower than that of the
same stones after they have been cut and polished. But the jewelry making industry is still not very
dynamic in Madagascar. While Malagasy artisans have a remarkable knack for this kind of work, the
poor quality of gem finishing work suggests the need to acquire more refined skills in the techniques
used.
It is therefore necessary not only to enhance the technical skills of gemstone cutters and polishers so
that their production continues to be competitive internationally, but also to formally apply science
and technology to gems. Imparting broader knowledge about gems and the cutting and polishing of
gems would certainly have an impact on multiplying mining activity, on improving processing
quality, and on the value added of export products.
The government's objective is to promote the development on site of the cutting and polishing of
precious and semiprecious stones in accordance with international standards to replace exports of
rough products.
For this reason, it is planned to establish the Madagascar Gemology Institute (IGM) in order to make
it possible to develop national expertise in gemstone cutting and polishing and in product quality.
The responsibilities of the IGM will include:
- 67 -



o   Establishing national expertise in gemology and gemstone cutting and polishing;
o Dissemninating to producers and artisans in the sector the international standards governing the
marketing of precious stones;
o Promoting modern techniques for the cutting and polishing of precious stones;
o   Coordinating training activities for jewelry making artisans;
o   Certifying precious stone exports, allowing for the certification of stone quality and the placement of
a quality label on stones cut and polished in Madagascar, as well as promoting this quality label
abroad;
o   Valuing exports for tax purposes and ensuring their proper taxation, thereby contributing to the fight
against smuggling and tax avoidance; and
o Facilitating the marketing of rough stones at the national level on the grounds of their cut and polish.
The IGM's expertise will be used as the basis for training jewelry making artisans and thereby
promoting enhanced professionalism in the trade, with a view to achieving improvement in the short
term in the quality and cut and polish of stones in Madagascar.
The marketing and export channels for precious and semiprecious stones in Madagascar are complex
and require that numerous formalities be observed. In particular, the buying/selling process is
inhibited by the lack of organization and formal assistance services. This situation leads to a lack of
security, as well as numerous difficulties with contacts between producers, buyers, and sellers
(dispersion of production sites throughout national territory); in addition, the growth in informal
assistance with exports by foreigners makes the collection of the royalties due under the mining code
even more difficult.
The complexity of the circuit makes it impossible to effectively control smuggling, and represents a
disincentive for legal exporters or potential investors in gemstone processing activities.
In this regard, the government is on the verge of introducing a channel for enhancing security and
simplifying procedures in the context of a one-stop shop, and establishing control and trade
monitoring measures based on the payment of a guarantee by foreign buyers. Selling, buying, and
tax payment operations will also be organized in the framework of a counter established specifically
for gemstones.
Operation of the "counter" and "one-stop shop" will be entrusted in a concession or franchise
arrangement to a private enterprise selected on the basis of competitive bidding.
4. Institutional strengthening of the decentralization of mining administration
Decentralized management of mining resources will be initiated, on the one hand, by strengthening
the decentralized administrative units in regions with intense mining activities and, on the other hand,
by launching pilot programs on the integration of mining activities into community-level
management of natural resources. Moreover, small-scale mining operations will be developed by
integrating them into official channels, while improving hygiene and safety conditions and respecting
environmental concerns.
The key focus of the strategy for the institutional strengthening of mining administration will be the
commune-level management of mineral resources. Good governance in respect of the use for local
development of the resources collected at the commune level is an essential condition for the efforts
to reduce poverty.
- 68 -



At present, mining operations, largely at the artisanal level, may constitute an obstacle to
community-level development owing to their negative social and cultural impact as well as
environmental degradation, without making any significant contribution to regional development.
However, mining activity, whether artisanal or industrial, can in the short and medium term become
an effective tool for combating rural poverty through the integration of mmning activities into
community-level developrnent.
The government's strategy entails the integration of mining activities into community-level
development on the basis of a development partnership established between grassroots communities,
including artisanal producers, the decentralized and localized mining and environmental
administration, and mining companies in the case of industrial operations. The Ministry of Energy
and Mines (MEM) will be the agency promoting participation in this partnership on the part of
mining companies, by presenting to these companies the advantages of guaranteeing stability and
social calm in mining areas.  The relationship between grassroots communities and mining
companies will have to evolve from the current system of competing for natural resources to one
based on a partnership for development.
Given that the level of preparation of commune-level authorities is quite uneven, an integrated
approach will be needed, including training and supervision of local elected leaders in order to
improve commune governance and the communes' capacity to manage mineral resources. The
training and supervision will include:
*   Public management at the commune level, including budgeting and the monitoring of budget
execution;
*   Decentralized collection of mining taxes at the commune level;
*   Improved provision of public services;
*   Monitoring and supervision of small-scale artisanal mining operations, and the formalization thereof;
*   Integration of mining activity into commune-level development;
*   Good governance of the use of resources derived from the mining sector; and
*   Preparation and execution of Commune Development Plans (PCDs).
The central mining adrninistration offices, however, must provide technical supervision and
coordination of the decentralized entities in the sector so as to preserve the homogeneity of
administration nationally while decentralizing decision-making. Consequently, it is essential to
strengthen the central levels in order to give them the capability of assisting with the decentralization
of mining administration even as they coordinate the various levels of that administration.
The institutional strengthening of mining administration will thus include building the capacity for
decentralized management of the environment together with the conduct of pilot studies as well as
the strengthening of mining inspection and the gathering of mining statistics in the provinces.
5. Promotion of private mining investment
The aim of the government's policy is to create the conditions necessary for promoting pnvate
investment in Madagascar, both national and foreign, through improved knowledge about the
country's geology, dissemination internationally of the country's mining potential, and the promotion
of its potential for the processing of precious stones.
The results and recommendations of the institutional audit of MEM have revealed the sector's lack of
capacity for promoting private investment. The institutional audit recommends the creation of a
- 69 -



Mining Sector Promotion Agency (APSM) whose mission would be to define and implement the
sectoral promotion policy. Pursuant to this recommendation, the APSM would be responsible for
carrying out global promotion activities for the mining sector for all mineral resources regarded as
promising, as well as for ensuring the promotion of small-scale mining operations and marketing
targeted products and services. The APSM will replace the Gold Agency referred to in the Mining
Code, which has never been operational.
The principal functions of the APSM will be as follows:
o   One-stop shop and secretariat for implementation of the Law on Large-Scale Mining Investments;
o   Promotion of Madagascar's mining potential internationally, promotion of private investment in the
sector, and in particular promotion of the quality label for stones cut and polished in Madagascar;
o   Administration, use, and dissemination of the data base for promoting the governance of mineral
resources (BPGRM);
o   Provision of information on the development of the international mineral market; and
o   Extending services for small-scale mining activities and formalization of artisanal mining operation,
and related grant program.
One important activity of the APSM with respect to mining communities, mining artisans, and
jewelry makers is a program of small grants associated with a matching contribution on the part of
the applicant. Such grants will be awarded on a nonreimbursable basis to encourage initiatives to
develop the sector in regard to both extraction and processing activities.
6. Strengthening of geological infrastructure and updating of geoscientific information
The aim of the government's policy is to update and strengthen the basic geological and mining
information necessary for the promotion of private investrnent as well as the sustainable social and
economic development of Madagascar. Production of the baseline geological infrastructure is an
important public service that is performed by the state in all countries and has benefits in a number of
different sectors (in mining, infrastructure construction, water resource management, territorial and
land use planning, and environmental studies).
The available geological cartography will be reinterpreted in its entirety from the structural
standpoint and the standpoint of geochronological data, so as to update and make the most of
knowledge about the Precambrian geology and mining potential of Madagascar.
The priorities in this area include:
o   Aerbome geophysical surveys;
o   Field work and verifications making it possible to reinterpret and modernize the findings of the
aforementioned surveys; and
o   Development of the capacity for using remote detection techniques in support of cartographic
activities, but also in identifying plant cover, the administration of protected areas, and
environmental assessments.
Thanks to these efforts, the government hopes to revitalize the Malagasy mnining sector and to make a
decisive contribution to achieving the objectives set by the government in the context of poverty
reduction, in particular, the institution of frameworks conducive to private investment in the sector
and increasing the value added of mining activities.
- 70 -



Annex to Declaration of Mining Policy
Action Plan and Timetable
To implement the new mining policy, the government undertakes to carry out a program of
actions with three (3) components:
-   Improvmg transparency and governance in the mining sector;
- Institutional reforms for the decentralized management of mineral resources; and
- Promotion of private mining investment.
(A) IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE IN THE MINING SECTOR
This component includes:
Al- Improving and implementing the legal and regulatory framework
A2- Grassroots management of crisis situations and rushes on precious materials.
Support for the grassroots management of crisis situations
A3- Gem quality certification and control program
A3 1. Support for the creation of the Madagascar Gemology Institute (IGM)
A32. Assistance with enhancing the sector's professionalism
A33. Gemstone counter and one-stop shop for export operations
A4 -Strengthening of private entities in the sector
(B) INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS FOR THE DECENTRALIZED MANAGEMENT OF
MINERAL RESOURCES
This component includes:
B1- Institutional strengthening of the decentralization of mining administration
B 1.2. Reform and institutional strengthening of the decentralization of mning
administration
B 1.3. Strengthening of environmental management at the provincial level
B 1.4. Decentralized management of mineral resources
B2- Strategy on national and regional dissemination of the objectives of mining policy
B3- Training program
B4- Intranet/Extranet network for the mining administration
(C) PROMOTION OF PRIVATE MINING INVESTMENT
This component includes.
Cl- Creation of the Mining Sector Promotion Agency
- 71 -



C2- Strengthening              of geological infrastructure                  and      updating       of geoscientific
information
C2. 1. Geophysical survey
C2.2. Geological survey
C2.3. Basis for promoting governance of mineral resources
C2.4. Supervision and evaluation
(D) COORDINATION AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
EXECtJTION TIMETABLE
ACTnVrY                                  20          2004         2005        20i          2007          2008
A   ENi1ANCED TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE OF ThE
Al Improvement andappicationofagalandreagulatwryfran,work_
A2Grwrooto management ocrioo CotDution Oend ruDheo on precIous
matefrialsai                                                                   T
A3 Gemquality  certification and control progrmr
A31 Stmpod for aon of  dscar Geonlogy Ins,lute ftGM)
A32 AssIstance forenhandngprisslonolsm of sector
33 I,noducindrcouniondorA-stopaxpodwndow_
AS   Srenihenod privateentitiea Inco                             _|
B   INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS FOR DECENTRALIZED MANAGEMdENT OF
MINERAL RESOURCES
BI Insotutional otenrgtning of inring ndrrdnlobalton docontralization
B12 Rforma, and insiuta sfiengehnlgof minAmnga dnlstraff__                                                            _
decenIolzaL'on
B13 Slrenglhfenvimnzmenal managemordma1ndd rl _t pr ial l
B14 Docenfraidnmnagomenlofrmnr nwresourcas
B2 Strategy on nadIonala and regional dloenlnon of mining policy
B3  Training prograrm
B4  IntrsnlExuaW NcIworkiformining adminscmion(Inotalcclonrnd
mairstrance)I
C   PROMOTION OF PRIVATE MiNING INVESTMENT
Cl CeationofMiningSectorPrmotIonAgancy
C2 Strengtmnad geologica Inftuctumre and updarting of
gaoscienttc Informa ton
C21 GGophyaYSC sLruy
C22 Gsologcal ssvoy
C23 S.sta frprOorlira r goa a o        ,at ,osvomnTes
C24 Suprion and evratan_l_
o COORDlNA11ON AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
LEGENr D      l]   Maln aWaMy
stSuMbaly
Antananarivo, 14 March 2003
Signed by the Minister of Energy and Mines
J. Rabarison
- 72 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 22395R
44A                    460                     -80 5'00
MADAGASCAR                                                                  0
-500
RELIEF                         AGPJCULTURE ond LIVESTOCK  _100
d-.)                                    _,00-10
-s      E<pmon                          ,reoof 0d,tonoolcpottfarmeng  t}f,j/ 1( Isobo   -100lo
Zore prod cct,rt,cotdo cudtur d',,porot oon  '  hor  -50
A Sp.,  r0-50                      orltorrh  (cof6.crle 001                 z
E3    , ,ndro-t dAlG1t \t
R.g-n                     \V    Gononon                  /
b-oUndafRigV                  Greeter6. non
mnsrom                   Oot~~~~~~E1enstve orock.romsmng_ I   J 
TRANSPORT                        Zone d 61evgo e,Nfoni   S  BI        g~ 
14  _       W.11.condhondrood             I                    - 
R-toole o, bo  AOt            INDUSTITES   ,r
Pesobl ored -nen  -om roo d    A odus  bn  -ne        |b
Ro ut e 6 I?dtO  poreo e  /c re t  (o//.u.  ,rduI                 tII)
_______ C6 t0 Toettepornitir eXmeroorir   Centrae ,rutnfuronal         Blnn
Rksll lo rou  odnen  cnormo root  59 Bnolo m py   /   ro,r_r-l-nc - ,e -   t A -  |1
Au Wotd rne      /t/e /H         AndutrAoUe2        (   a>     X          o9
.VBoteu f0utoaf    /oro /edicotneo s                                 fndben    ;tt a  d
Cr  Chrome, Chnzme   g  / /   _  )        \  \.dw-  d,-v 
1'  U~~~~Ro bonds=tSl                                                t      |     w
M  P lotbl  fdorbrBe   \          TA                    ol        1
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Colhl < ,Snmod ......                                 P-
1000
K  100  Horo tnffic (tf-oosoed toeo)
o                                                                                                    4
MtININ G
'Oul Ott.opoot   oroo  Besooe
A, -God. Ot h pt1
B.  Bodt1, /o                    HAoJA
C   Corbee Co-too-
Cr  Chro..e. COroo.h
C.  Copper, C-,r
F.   to  'or
G   Gon=t, C-eptc.
Nc   WWIcot, fmkof                T,t00cl 
iOs   p    rop hote, Ptoph. o                                                                              0 la'
U   Uro=e.= Ure-u
t       e, M ..00 S4,
M.   Morte, Morbr.                                                                                   1
Pranec bo-donso-bw
oot., do pr-cc            Miurdno
200                                                                                                200~~~~~10
Mozambique                                                              -0
Channel
Tfr, nap ft.. boo  prepard byt
22'                                                 -5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  Th. Word Book' stP2efecf
FIA~~~~~~  I ~~-tSoo                 hot,co..otofadr
Mao,oa t              uof Th. Woed Book Gop
I 0 ~~~~~~~Tedeooertroo, .crdood the
1658      5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onTh.oI oro oto h
Worl Book GoC-A ooytcdoortt
Sk.,gh. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eon                        otheteo Onto, of o-Y -eoay
240~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
OLOMETORS 0  50  100  15        M   -  de oeb
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spebr19









Report No.:         25777  MAG
Type:     PAD



