Report No. PID10746
Project Name             MADAGASCAR-MINERAL RESOURCES (@)
GOVERNANCE PROJECT
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Mining and other extractive (60-);
Central government administration
(40%*)
Project ID               P076245
Borrower(s)              MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
Unite de Coordination du Projet (UCPM)
Address: B.P. 280 Ampandrianomby
-Antananarivo 101 - Madagascar
Contact Person: RAMAROLAHY Jonasy
Tel: 261.20.22.418.73
Fax: 261.20.22.418.73
Email: mem.prsm@dts.mg
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        January 9, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 8, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world with per capita
income of US$260 (in 2000), 70 percent of the population in poverty and
half of the children malnourished. After decades of economic stagnation
and downturn the country has sustained four years of positive real growth
and low inflation, and the public deficit is under control. After having
been one of the most rapidly growing African economies in recent years,
Madagascar plunged into a deep political crisis at the beginning of 2002,
following contested first-round elections in December 2001. The political
crisis ended in July 2002, but the social and economic impact is extremely
pronounced.  The direct negative impact on national income for 2002 is
estimated at half a billion dollars. The total economic cost is probably
much larger, taking into account the loss of confidence, foregone direct
investments, foregone exports, physical destruction. Activity in several
sectors, including tourism, transport, export processing industries, and
mining came to an almost complete stop.
Madagascar is very rich in minerals and precious stones and 2300 operators
are active in the sector today, generating direct and stable employment
for about 100,000 workers and an additional up to half a million seasonal
jobs. Since 1996, official mining exports have increased from US$16
million to US$37 million in 2000, largely in precious stones trading. But
poor governance and corruption in the sector have discouraged many formal
investors and have led to a smuggling of precious stones out of Madagascar
with very little value added being created in the country. Illegal
exports are a multiple of official exports and estimates put the value of



trafficking in precious stones ranging from a minimum of $200 million to
the maximum of US$500 million (or 10 percent of GDP) per year. Although
severe governance problems have characterized Madagascar's mining sector
for years, the crisis offers the possibility to decisively reduce illegal
activities in the sector. As a result of the crisis as well as
anti-corruption announcements of the Government, illegal activities have
slowed down and there is now a short window of opportunity to reverse the
situation and promote their integration in the formal economy. Quick
action is necessary, though, before the illegal activities restart in full
strength. Also, improving governance in the sector, and thereby
formalizing mining operations, is one of the most important actions to
improve internal revenue generation in Madagascar, much needed to extend
basic services and expenditures for anti-poverty programs.
The Mining Sector Reform Project assisted Government in setting up a legal
and regulatory framework conducive to private investment in the area of
mineral resources, in line with its overall policy, defined in 1998 in the
Document Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE), whose key objectives are
shifting the role of the State from operator to regulator and promoter of
sustainable minerals development, and opening up of the sector to private
investment, including foreign.    Reforms, supported by the MSRP, include
(i) a new mining code and its regulations, that have established an
adequate legal and regulatory framework to attract private investment into
mining, including joint environmental regulations for mining, published
jointly by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy and
Mines; (ii) a special law for large-scale mining investments, defining an
attractive special investment regime for FDI in mining in Madagascar, and
providing for a fair share of revenues between the Government and the
private sector, an adequate cut for the Provincial Governments; and (iii)
improved governance through the establishment of a nondiscretionary and
transparent system to grant, manage and cancel mining permits, the Mining
Cadastre.
Success in the implementation of these reforms - that were included as
sector conditions in the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) -
triggered the scale-up of the Mining Sector Reform Project, designed as a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to the current project.
Inspite of the overall improvement in the legal and regulatory framework,
Madagascar continues to be confronted with significant governance issues
in small-scale and artisanal mining, namely as a result of the series of
rushes in the gemstones area. The dynamism and complexity of informal
small scale mining activities is aggravated by the deforestation and soil
erosion that are a result of frequent cyclones and slash-and-burn ("tavy")
practices, especially on the East coast. According to the Ministry of
Environment, Madagascar has lost 80 percent of its original forest cover,
more than half of this in the past 40 years alone, while deforestation is
continuing at a rate of about 200,000 hectares per year.    Between 1987 and
1997 the area under primary forests is reported to have shrunk by
one-third. Soil erosion is estimated at 200-400 tons/ha/year. Soil
erosion, associated with an increasing ability to identify gemstones by
the rural population is at the origin of the intensification of the rushes
on semi-precious stones that Madagascar has known over the recent years.
Because of lack of institutional capacity of the mining administration,
the new mining code is not being consistently enforced and, as a result,
-2 -



most of the small-scale and artisanal mining is being conducted outside
the formal channels, with insufficient linkages to the rest of the
economy, damage to environment, social conflicts, and substantial loss of
fiscal revenues.
Government is now seeking to implement a series of measures of strong
impact aimed at combating smuggling and corruption in this area, and
creating an enabling environment for the production, trade, cutting and
polishing of gemstones. As part of the project preparation, Government
will submit to the Bank before negotiations a Letter of Sector Policy
including arrangements to improve governance in small scale mining of gold
and gemstones, an action plan for the decentralization of the
institutional framework for the public mining institutions.
The measures to improve governance in the management of mineral resources
constitute the core of the short term policy program of the Government.
Among the priority measures that could be implemented over the one year
period are : (i) the establishment of a one-stop shop for mineral exports;
(ii) the set-up of a certification and evaluation infrastructure for
gemstones; (iii) the creation of a gemstone exchange in Antananarivo; and
(iv) the launching of a training program in cutting and polishing of
gemstones. These measures would be complemented with agreements with the
main customers of Malagasy gemstones aiming at regulating the trade of
gemstones.
Over the medium term, Government's strategy for the sector is based on the
recognition that the sustainable development of mining can not be achieved
without a decentralized administration and a deep involvement of the
affected communities. In concrete terms, this strategy calls for : (i)
capacity building of the Provincial mining administration, with the
establishment of a better alignment between core central public sector
functions and the implementation of their mandates at the Provincial
level; (ii) increase of fiscal revenues to the communes, including the
decentralization of tax collection; and (iii) definition of effective
ways and means for community empowerment and participation, including the
establishment of public/private partnerships with responsible mining
companies willing to invest part of their profits in human resources
capacity building, social, and physical infrastructure. A key element of
this strategy would be the provision of technical assistance to community
associations and municipal governments for the integration of mineral
resources management in their participatory development plans.
The Government is convinced that its central objective of reducing poverty
through accelerated growth can only be accomplished through institutional
and administrative reforms that refocus the role of the State, remove
inefficient and discretionary regulations, and build a strong partnership
between the State, the private sector, and the civil society at large.
Based on international experience, the proposed project would look at
relevant experiences related to partnerships between mining companies and
small scale mining organizations and/or communities for the delivery of
services. These experiences could be of particular interest and relevance
to Madagascar as they provide an opportunity to resolve a number of
existing constraints simultaneously, as mining companies typically provide
technical assistance, infrastructure, and access to markets in these
schemes.
-3-



In implementing its strategy, Government expects to increase the
environmental and social awareness among the stakeholders involved in
minerals development, and obtain a fairer distribution of revenues to the
affected population. A major challenge associated with this strategy is
improving good governance and transparency of revenue expenses by the
communes. The focus of the actions to be supported by the project at the
community level includes capacity building for decision making and
planning of economic activities to be implemented with the revenues
arising from mining, including conflict resolution and analysis of
alternative economic opportunities, and linkages to other community-driven
networks for the access to "business" services allowing them to benefit
from other economic opportunities.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government of
Madagascar in implementing its strategy to accelerate sustainable
development and reduce poverty in Madagascar through the strengthening of
governance and transparency in the management of mineral resources, with
special emphasis on small-scale and artisanal mining.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank's competitive advantage in mining. The Bank has been the leading
provider of assistance to mining sector reform in African and Latin
American countries during the last decade and in this capacity has
contributed to an upsurge in mining activities in both continents. The
Bank has been leading the policy dialogue in mining in Madagascar, and is
the only donor capable of providing an integrated approach to the
technical assistance to the given to Government for institutional
development and regulatory reform designed to encourage the expansion of
private investment in mining in a socially and environmentally sound way.
Bank involvement will also be catalytic in attracting additional funds and
support from bilateral donors particularly for the implementation of the
social mitigation measures, and in providing the environment for
encouraging private sector investment.
4. Description
The project which would be implemented over a period of five years and
consists of four components:
Component 1 - Strengthening transparency and governance in mining. This
component would support quick measures with great impact aimed at
improving governance in the management of mineral resources and reducing
the smuggling of gemstones, and more specifically: (i) adjustment of the
sector's legal and regulatory framework; (ii) support for the
establishment of mining administration offices close to exploitation
sites, the Bureaus de l'Administration MiniOre (BAM); (iii) establishment
of a certification program for gemstones; the creation of a one-stop shop
for gemstone exports, and a gemstones exchange; and (iv) strengthening of
private sector associations.
Component 2 - Key institutional reforms for the decentralized management
of mineral resources. This component would support Government's
decentralization strategy for transfer of competences to the provincial
and municipal levels and empowerment of local communities. Community
level effort would include extending access to Cadastre information on the
- 4 -



municipal levels, streamlining of tax collection, and of Directorate of
Mines and Geology operations. The project would form six provincial-level
offices in cooperation with the Ministry of Enironment to oversee
environmental management on the provincial level. Also, ten communes
would be selected for implementation of decentralized management of
mineral resources, and especially tax collection on the provincial
levels. Four studies in the pilot regions, focusing on strategic impact
of mining activities will be sponsored in order to build capacity in the
mining sector and to define sector strategy. A key aspect of this
component is a training program aimed to raise human resource capacity in
the sector. The component would also sponsor a communication campaign
geared to raise awareness of mining sector reform in local communities.
The set-up of an Intranet and Internet network within the mining
administration is another part of this component, which would facilitate
communication with all stakeholders, private and public.
Component 3 - Promoting private investments and value-added in the sector.
Madagascar's geological potential is little known, and small scale mining
methods widely employed in the country lead to a waste of resources and
damage to the environment. A large portion of the minerals production is
smuggled out of the country with little fiscal and economic impact. This
component would address the current situation by (i) establishing the
Mining Sector Promotion Agency and (ii) strengthening the Geo-scientific
Information Infrastructure. Creation of the Mining Sector Promotion
Agency would improve the Government's capacity to attract private sector
investment by coordinating certification procedures, administering a Small
Grants program, establishing a database of geological and geophysical
information on the country's mineral resources, and designing and
implementing environmental awareness campaigns. The project would also
work in coordination with the ongoing Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS
Prevention Project to undertake pilot activities for HIV/AIDS prevention
on the commune level. The second sub-component would finance the
geo-physics campaign and conduct geological and geochemical mapping. Both
of these activities would increase the avaliability of mineral resources
information to investors by creating a Mineral Resources Governance
Database and thus facilitate private sector investment in the long-run.
Component 4 - Project coordination and management. Project management
would build upon the existing Project Implementation Unit (UCPM) that has
shown proven skills in project procurement, financial management and
reporting. The UCPM would be responsible for a monitoring and evaluation
program for the activities of the project and coordinate its efforts with
a Steering Committee, composed of representatives from various ministries
and charged with strategic and financial management.
Strengthening transparency and governance in mining
Key institutional reforms for decentralized management of mineral
resources
Promoting private investments and value-added in the sector
Project coordination and management
PPF
Contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $5.40
-5-



IBRD
IDA $32.00
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (USAID) $3.00
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT $1.20
Total Project Cost $41.60
6. Implementation
Project Implementation Period
The proposed project would be implemented over a period of 5 years.
Project completion date would be June 30, 2008 and the Credit closing
date would be December 31, 2008.
Executing agency
The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) will be responsible for the
implementation of the project.
Project management
The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), through the existing UCPM (Mining
Project Coordination Unit) will be responsible for the overall
implementation of the project. The UCPM will continue to operate and
will (i) be responsible for the execution of the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP); (ii) manage (a) procurement - including all contracting for
works and purchases of goods - and the hiring of consultants, (b) Project
monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship
with the Bank, and (d), financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements; and (iii), establish communication and/or coordination
links between MEM and the different sectors involved in the Project. The
Project will also establish a Steering Committee, composed of
representatives from MEM, Ministry of the Environment, DMG, BCMM, CNM.
The Steering Committee will be chaired by the Director General of MEM and
will oversee financial, management, and strategic issues.
Accounting, financial reporting and audits
A financial management assessment has been carried out during
pre-appraisal (see Annex 6), and procedure adjustments to comply with Bank
norms have been agreed with MEM. A computerized financial management
system will be set up. The UCPM will maintain accounts and payments. A
summary financial report will be included in the quarterly progress
reports. Project accounts, the Special Account, all procurement and
compliance with the financial and legal covenants of the Credit Agreement
and all procurement, including Statements of Expenditure will be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The terms of
reference of the audit have been reviewed by the financial management
specialist of the Bank/IDA. The auditors should be recruited prior to
negotiations. The auditors will be also required to carry out a
comprehensive review of the internal control procedures and provide a
management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The
audit report will be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after the
end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation
The UCPM will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the Project,
according to the indicators and benchmarks included in the PIP and the
Credit agreement. Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the UCPM
will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports covering all Project
activities, including procurement and a financial summary report.
Bi-annual reviews, the first one to take place 6 months after
effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of implementation progress
towards development objectives, and include an evaluation of financial
- 6 -



management as well a post-review of procurement matters.
7. Sustainability
Madagascar has good geological potential as evidenced by the interest
major international mining companies are showing in the country. However,
the Government will encounter difficulty in sustaining this interest and
in ensuring the maximum contribution to economic development unless the
major governance issues are addressed and reforms to decentralize the
mineral resources management that have already begun are deepened and
completed. If transparent management, proper regulations and enforcement
mechanisms as well as a competitive environment are put into place,
minerals exploration and development of mines will become self-sustaining
to provide a continual revenue stream and other economic benefits to the
country. Without substantial improvement of governance in the sector, the
continuation of rushes on gemstones could destroy the social and
environmental tissue in huge extension of the East coast without material
contribution to the region's development. The project will contribute to
the institutional strengthening of the Government of Madagascar in key
areas of the mining sector (policy, institutional, environmental, social),
through a set of prerequisite steps that will lay the foundation for
future private investment. Project implementation will provide a sound
basis for Madagascar in exploiting, over the long term and in a
developmentally sound manner, the significant potential of its natural
resources. Sustainability will be enhanced through the project's strong
emphasis on institutional capacity building, training, human capital
development and environmental awareness in the public as well as private
sectors.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons have been learned from the Mining Sector Reform Project and other
ongoing projects being implemented in Madagascar, from other countries
where the Bank has financed similar capacity building operations for
mining (e.g., Algeria, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania,
Mozambique and Tanzania), as well as from a Bank review on mining sector
reform in Latin America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the
Caribbean, 1996).
Experience in Madagascar shows that although Government is committed to
policy reform and to improvements in the legal and regulatory framework,
enforcement of the new regulations can be blocked by governance issues and
institutional shortcomings. In addition, the general trend towards a
state that withdraws from direct participation in economic activities and
the operational aspects of implementing public policy requires systematic
thinking on how to improve the interface between the public and private
sector for the purpose of generating a more dynamic mining sector, in such
a way that will allow the affected communities to benefit directly from
the surge in activities.
Lack of detailed baseline information and adequate institutional capacity
make improving governance in the small-scale mining area through technical
assistance a particularly difficult task. Experience with capacity
building and public sector reform under the MSRP and economic and sector
work conducted under the project show that learning through the
implementation of pilot projects is crucial to achieve results on the
ground. In addition, giving the generalized level of poverty and the
- 7 -



shortfalls in institutional capacity, public/private partnerships are
particularly adapted to the situation of Madagascar. The counterpart, at
the policy level, of this strategic choice, is that policy implementation
has to stress incentives to private economic activity rather than
indiscriminate economic repression.
Similar experience in other World Bank projects in the country suggests
that emphasis on beneficiary participation in project preparation and
supervision, organization and coordination in the field are critical for
timely and effective implementation. Given the limited availability of
highly skilled staff, ownership and political commitment to project
objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership, and clear
delineation of ministerial authority and responsibilities.
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling
environment increases the ability of a country to attract and retain
appropriate private investment. The last 25 years have seen significant
changes in the international mining industry, in large measure because of
the liberalization of economic and mining policies of previously
restrictive governments in mining countries. These reforms have had three
broad objectives, to improve sector performance and growth and the
contribution of mining to the national economies, to ensure the
sustainability of the mining industries in the developing countries, and
to ensure that the host countries and local populations get a fair share
from the benefits of growth of the sector.
Work Bank involvement in the reform process of successful mining countries
shows that, for this to happen, the enactment of the necessary legal,
fiscal and environmental policies and the establishment of strong mining
institutions to implement and administer them have proven to be the keys
to success. This includes: (i) a background of sensible economic policies
and a coherent general legal framework; (ii) a mining law providing
security of tenure, clarity and transparency and access to land (including
the release of reserved areas held up by the State and full
transferability of concessions to remove all barriers to the entry of
investors) , and an investment framework providing access to foreign
exchange and a stable and equitable fiscal regime; (iii) public mining
institutions that apply properly the sector policies; (iv) a sensible
environmental management system; and (v) clear incentives and mechanisms
to associate the local communities to the management of mineral resources
and to make them benefit of the revenues arising from the mining activity.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no investments in mining operations under
the Project. However, the Project would stimulate private investment in
mining, and identified environmental issues regarding environmental
management and control by public mining authorities include:
(i) Government is having problems in the implementation of the
environmental regulations applicable to mining, especially with regards to
small scale and artisanal activities;
(ii) the Minister of Energy and Mines has yet to fully staff and provide
adequate budget to the existing Environmental Unit of the Mining
Directorate and the skils have to be decentralized at the provincial level;
(iii) environmental baseline data for key mining areas has started to be
developed under the MSRP but is still inadequate to monitor the
- 8 -



development impact of mining activities or to provide adequate information
to the private sector for the preparation of environmental assessment (EA)
studies;
(iv) public participation in mining projects is embrionary;
(v) there is little experience in evaluating socio-economic impacts of
mining projects.
In order to address these issues, an update of the Sector Environmental
and Social Assessment (SESA) will be carried out as part of the project,
focusing on the:
(i) review of the present status of the environmental legal, regulatory
and institutional frameworks;
(ii) evolution of the mining sector, including a description of most of
the mining projects in operation or under development;
(iii) potential physical and socio-economic impacts of sector activities
on the environment and on the communities, including indigenous
populations;
(iv) identification of protected areas and areas of high value
biodiversity restricted to mining activities, and prospective areas for
mining development where environmental baseline studies will be prepared,
in order to assess natural, social and sector background data;
(v) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline studies aiming at the
definition and implementation of consultation procedures, training
requirements and programs, ad hoc institutional strengthening,
alternatives for revenue sharing with local communities, and other related
measures.
The project is categorized as "B" without a separate EA, but a separate
EMP will be prepared and disclosed at the World Bank Infoshop and in the
country before appraisal. Measures taken in the previous mining capacity
building projects and the environmental management projects will be spelt
out. The annex will outline the capacity building initiatives being taken
to ensure that the regulatory framework that has been put in place is
enforced, and how the proposed project intends on bringing small scale and
artisanal miners into the economic mainstream as a way of applying the
rules of the game for environmental management among other management
issues. The Terms of reference for the EMP will be prepared by the ASPEN
team and the study will be carried out preferably by a national
consultant. More conceptual work also needs to be done on revenue
management, building on the current thinking being developed in the Mining
Department. The meeting recalled that USA Government requires
environmental disclosure at least 120 days before Board approval, and this
needs to be taken into consideration in terms of the preparation schedule,
since USAID is a potential co-financer of the proposed operation
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Paulo De Sa
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202.473.4241
Fax: 202.522.0396
9



11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 10 -



