                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No: 39398-MG




                                   PROJECT PAPER




                 PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION
                           (US$8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE




                                          FOR A

                MINERAL RESOURCESGOVERNANCE PROJECT

                                      April 23,2007




Oil, Gas, Mining and ChemicalsDepartment
Botswana, Lesotho, Madagascar,Mauritius, Namibia,
South Africa and Swaziland CountryManagementUnit
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         Exchange Rate Effective March 31,2007

                                 Currency Unit     = Malagasy Ariary
                                            2000   = US$1
                                    0.6625 US$     = SDR 1


                                      FISCAL YEAR


                                     January 1     -   December 31


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD   French Development Agency                     LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
AfDB  Afiican DevelopmentBank                       LCC       Local Coordination Committee
ANGAP Protected Areas National Management           LGIM      Large-scale Mining Investment Law
      Agency
ASM   Artisanal and Small-ScaleMining               MAP       Madagascar Action Plan
BCM   Central Bank of Madagascar                    MdM       Ministry of Mines
BCMM  Mining Cadastre Office of Madagascar          MdE       Ministry of Energy
BPGRM Mineral Resources Governance Data Bank        NGO       Non Governmental Organization
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                   NGS       National Geological Survey
CASM  Communities and Small-ScaleMining             NORAD     Norwegian Agency for Development
                                                              Cooperation
CBO   Community-BasedOrganization                   OMNIS     National Office for Mines and the Strategic
                                                              Industries
CEM   EnvironmentalMining Cell                      ONE       National Office for the Environment
DBG   Good GovernanceDirectorate (under the         PGE       Environmental Management Plan
      Presidency)
DCA   Development Credit Agreement                  PGRM      Mineral Resources Governance Project
EA    Environmental Assessment                      PIU       Project ImplementationUnit
EI    Extractive Industries                         PIM       Project ImplementationManual
EIR   Extractive Industries Review                  PRSM      Mining Sector Reform Project
EITI  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative PRISMM Mining Institutional StrengtheningProject
EMP   Environmental ManagementPlan                  PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
FM    Financial Management                          PSC       Production Sharing Contract
FMR   Financial Management Report                   QMM       QIT MadagascarMinerals.
GoM   Government of Madagascar                      SESA      Strategic Environmental and Social
                                                              Assessment
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                        SOE       Statement of Expenses
GIs   Geographical Information System               SDM       Strategic Decision Meeting
ICR   Implementation CompletionReport               UCPM      Mining Project Coordination Unit
IDA   International Development Association         USAID     United States Agency for International
                                                              Development
IGM   Gemological Institute of Madagascar           WB        The World Bank
12G   Integrated Growth Poles Project               WWF       World Wildlife Fund
ISR   Implementation Status Report




                                 Vice President:      Obiageli Ezekwesili
                    Country DirectorIManager:         Ritva Reinikka /Robert Blake
                               Sector Manager:        Peter van der Veen
                            Task Team Leader:         Gotthard Walser

                                                                                    FOR OFFTCIAL USE ONLY


                                       REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                              ADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT FOR A
                         MINERAL RESOURCESGOVERNANCE PROJECT

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

         I.INTRODUCTION         .........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                      1
         I1 BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONALFINANCING IN
           .
         THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION...'..........................................................................1
           A.ExtractiveIndustries Development in Madagascar ...................................................                       1
           B.Original Project ..........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                      2
            C.Rationale and Reasons for Requestingthe New Credit ........................................                             3
         I11 PROPOSEDCHANGES..........................................................................................
            .                                                                                                                         5
           A.Description of new proposed activities......................................................................5
            B.Project Implementation. FinancialManagement. Disbursement and Procurement
            Arrangements..................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                      9
         IV CONSISTENCYWITH CAS....................................................................................
            .                                                                                                                         9
         V APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPPROJECT ACTIVITIES....................................10
           .
            A. Implementation Mechanisms...................................................................................10
           B.FinancialManagement .............................................................................................      10
            C.Procurement .............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                    12
                                          . .
            D. Environmental and Social issues..............................................................................        12
         VI EXPECTED OUTCOMES......................................................................................
            .                                                                                                                       13
         VII BENEFITSAND RISKS........................................................................................14
             .
         VIII FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
              .
         FINANCING ...................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                    15
         IX.ScheduleA..................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                    16
         X.ScheduleB -Financialmanagement Assessment Report ...........................................18
         XI. ScheduleC: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events........................................                          26
         XI1.ScheduleD MadagascarMineral Resources Donor Coordination Matrix................27
         XI11.Map IBRD 33439.....................................................................................................   30




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its coiltents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               Project Paper Data Sheet


                                            Sector Directormanager: Peter van der Veen




                                                                       oYes oNo




The development objectives of the original Credit have not been revised

  I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional credit in an amount of US$8 millionlSDR5.3 equivalent to the Republic of
Madagascar for the Mineral Resources Governance Project (P076245)        -  Credit 3754-
MAG. The proposed additional credit would help finance the costs associated with
scaled-up activities to enhance the impact of a well-performing project and meet the
Government of Madagascar's demands for assistance in sustainable development and
transparent management of the extractiveindustries.

2.      The operation was prepared in form of scaled up activities under existing project
components. The additional financing credit fully matches the development objectives of
the original credit. Therefore, no new development objectives are defined.            The
additional financing meets the demands of the recent Government minerals sector
strategy and increased interest in technical assistance. Government focus on the minerals
sector has been refined in 2005 and fully outlined during the September 2006 Strategic
Decision Meeting (SDM). Mining sector is prominently featured in the Madagascar
Action Plan (MAP). The additional financing activities will be implementedby the same
project implementationunit as the original credit.

3.      The proposed project would work in close cooperation with the Norwegian
government's Oil for Development program (parallel financing), which is going to
provide US$5 million for the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework and for
institutional strengtheningfor the development of the country's petroleum resources. The
operation will also liaise with other donor agencies involved in supporting the minerals
sector, such as USAID and the French Cooperation. Implementation of the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), in cooperation with the African Development
Bank (AfDB) will be another focus of the proposed additional financing. The envisaged
set-up of Community Development Funds would be partly supported by the WBG
CommDev grant facility, a Sustainable Community Development Fund for Oil, Gas, and
Mining.




  11. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL
  FINANCING IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION




4.      Madagascar is geologically rich and has good mining potential for gold, titanium
(ilmenite sands), iron, nickel, chromite, bauxite, and coal, as well as industrial and
ornamental stones. It is also famous for its rich gemstones deposits (emeralds, rubies and
sapphires). Historically, small-scale mining dominated the Malagasy minerals sector.
Large-scale mining operators, while interested in the country's mining sector potential,

were deterred by unstable and opaque regulatory and legal frameworks. The Malagasy
Government, with the assistance from the World Bank and other donors, set out to
develop and reform its minerals sector in the 1990s. A new, modem mining law was
passed in 1999 and updated in 2005. A Large-scale mining investment law (LGIM) was
adopted in 2002 and amended in 2004 to promote large-scale mining in Madagascar.
Furthermore,Madagascar set up a world class mining cadastre service (BCMM), which is
currently considered to be the best in Africa for the management of mining rights. It also
developed the sector environmental management capacity through the set up of
decentralized EnvironmentalMining Cells (CEM), of Mines-Forest Committees andjoint
regulations between environmental and mining authorities. A core unit of the planned
National Geological Survey, the Mineral Resources Governance Data Bank (BPGRM),
with a wealth of geological data, is also operational.

5.     The first large-scale mining company to proceed with its investment was Rio
TintoIQMM (QIT Madagascar Minerals), supported not only by an investor-friendly
regulatory and legal framework,but also by the world commoditiesboom. After 15years
of preparation in the Fort Dauphin region, the decision to undertake the QMM ilmenite
project was taken in 2005. Other investors shortly followed suit - currently, Dynatec, in
association with Sumimoto Corporation, a consortium of Korean companies and SNC
Lavalin, is constructing a cobaltlnickel mine in Ambotavy, on Madagascar's east coast.
The investment is estimated at US$2.5 billion and is expected to go into production in
2008. The operation would include the set up of a refinery in Tarnatave and the
improvement of associated port facilities. Kumba Resources is developing a Tolear
mineral sands project on the country's west coast through its Ticor subsidiary. Also, the
Canadian giant Alcan in association with the Malagasy Access Madagascar is evaluating
the possibility of building a bauxite mine and an aluminum smelter in Manantenina in the
south-westpart of the country.

6.     In 2006, the multi-stakeholder Strategic Decision Meeting (SDM), focused on oil
and large-scale mining was held, and a follow-up small-scalemining SDM is planned for
mid-2007. As a result, the Malagasy minerals sector strategy has been carefully outlined
and fully thought out on the Governmentallevel.



7.     In December 2002 the Government of Madagascar, with the support from the
World Bank, designed the Mineral Resources Governance Project (PGRM) with the
following objectives: (i) strengthening of accountability and transparency in mining; (ii)
promotion of key institutional reforms for the decentralized management of mineral
resources; and (iii) promotion of private investments and value-added in the sector. The
objectives of the project under Additional Financingwould remain unchanged.

8.     The project finances four components:

Component 1 - Strengthening Transparency and Governance in Mining. This
component finances improved governance in the management of mineral resources, with
a special focus on the small-scaleminers.

Component2 -Key InstitutionalReforms for the Decentralized Management of Mineral
Resources. This component focuses on strengthening the decentralized management of
mineral resources through re-organization and capacity building of mining public
administration at the provincial and communal level, and the empowerment of
communities in the management of their mineral resources.

Component 3     - Promoting Private Investment and Value-Added in the Sector. Various
activities, aiming to bring large-scale private investment in the Malagasy mining sector
are supported by this component, which finances strengthening of geo-scientific
information infrastructure, assistanceto the creation of the mining promotion agency, and
the mineral resources governancepromotion database, among others.

Component 4 - Project Coordination and Management. PGRM operating costs and
actions necessary to meet World Bank fiduciary obligations are included in this
component.

9.      The PGRM is implementedby the Ministry of Mines through the Mining Project
Coordination Unit (UCPM). The UCPM has an excellent performance track record, and
has been meeting the World Bank fiduciary requirements successfully for the last seven
years (under PGRM and during the implementation of an earlier Mining Sector Reform
Project Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL PRSM project).

10.     The PGRM has been successful in meetings its original project objectives, and
has also been able to keep abreast of growing focus on the minerals sector and new
Governmental priorities. The credit has kept all of the covenants and has maintained
"Satisfactory" ratings on the ImplementationStatusReports (ISRs).

11.     The Mineral Resources Governance Project (PGRM), Credit 3754-MAG in the
amount of SDR 23 million (US$32 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on
May 13, 2003, became effective on September 22, 2003 and is scheduled to close on
December 31, 2008. The current closing date for PGRM would be extended by two
years, until December 31, 2010 to assist the Government of Madagascar in continued
sustainablemanagement and good governanceof the mineral resources.

12.     Each of the three technical project components would be adjusted to
accommodate a number of new activities envisioned under additional financing that
would enhance project impact for scale up.


        C. RATIONALE REASONSFOR REQUESTING THE NEWCREDIT
                        AND


13.     In January 2007, following the Presidential elections, the Ministry of Energy and
Mines was split into two entities, Ministry of Mines (MdM) and Ministry of Energy
(MdE), thus giving the mining sector more focused attention. The Ministry of Energy
concentrates on administering the petroleum sector, which has also experienced an
increase in investor interest. Currently, a number of companies hold on-shore and off-
shore exploration permits and, while no major discovery of oil has yet been made,
exploration activities are on the rise.

14.     While the originally identified project activities dealt with overall mineral sector
issues (including promotion of large-scale operations in mining), there was a clear focus
on field work related to artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM), which was then the
main Government objective. A number of critical successes have been registered in
relation to this issue sincethen, including an increasing formalizationof the ASM sector.

15.     In June 2005 the sector strategy was adjusted, and the project activities re-
focused, to respond to the recent surge of large-scale mining projects in Madagascar. In
addition, as a response to increasing oil prices, oil exploration in Madagascar surged.
The overall mining and energy institutional structure thus faced more pressure and, in
spite of earlier successfulreforms (i.e. the Mining Cadastre,EnvironmentalMining Cells,
the Mines-Forest Committees and the Mineral Resources Governance Data Bank), it
currently needs more comprehensive integration, streamlining andlor restructuring,
including modifications to the oil (upstream) sector and a fine-tuned strategy of a key
parastatal entity National Office for Mines and the StrategicIndustries (OMNIS).

16.     The Government of Madagascar recognizes the importance of the extractive
industries sector. The mining sector features prominently in the Madagascar Action Plan

- MAP, the Government's development strategy for 2007-2012. Challenge 7 of the MAP
ambitiously specifies that the sector should significantly increase its contribution to GDP
in the coming years, up from the estimate of 4% in 2005. The MAP also states that
"Madagascar will help current mining projects enter the production phase quickly while
respecting the communities and the environment. It will unleash its extractive potential
by attracting more explorers and promoting its natural assets."'

17.     Madagascar has stated its intention to join the EITI during the EITI event in Oslo,
Norway in October 2006. A formal letter of intent and a request for assistance from the
Government of Madagascar was received in March 2007. The EITI Trust Fund to assist
Madagascar in implementingEITI is currently under preparation.

18.     Besides EITI, the IDAlWorld Bank minerals sector strategy in Madagascar is
comprehensive. Along with PGRM, other IDA projects, such as the Integrated Growth
Poles Project (I2G), the World Bank provides assistance to the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative (EITI), and to the Bonne Gouvernance (Good Governance)
through the Governance and Institutional Development Project. Coordination with other
donors active in the minerals sector such as the Norwegian Oil for Development
Initiative, United States Agency for International Development (USAID) the French
Development Agency (AFD), the A D B and others is another important aspect of PGRM
implementation.

19.     Fully aware of the fact that the extractive industries revenues will continue to
have a substantial impact on Malagasy economic development, the Government of
Madagascar requested additional financing from the World Bank to receive technical
assistance and to extend its capacity building efforts in the minerals sector.



 The Madagascar Action Plan, Commitment 6,High Growth Economy, Action 7. p 092.


                                              4

20.     Lessons learned from implementation of the original credit will be considered in
the implementation of the PGRM additional financing. The additional financing will
benefit from experience in the mining and petroleum sectors in the post-~lR2era. This
includes implementation of the original credit, lessons learned from EITI implementation
in a number of countries and extractive industries technical assistance operations in
Africa.


  111. PROPOSED CHANGES

21.     The original project development objectives and components will remain
unchanged under the additional financing. Considering that petroleum is regarded as a
mineral resource3, the proposed operation will contribute to all of the existing project
objectives. The additional financing will be used to scale up and strengthen current
activities to increase project impact and to meet expanded Government objectives and
focus on the minerals sector.

22.      Institutional arrangements under the existing Mineral Resources Governance
Project will remain unchanged for the implementation of the Additional Financing. An
additionalposition of an Extractive Industries Government Coordinatorwill be supported
by the Additional Financing to harmonize Project activities work undertaken by other
donors (in particular, the Norwegian Cooperation work with OMNIS).                            A matrix,
summarizing Additional Financing activities and complementaryNorwegian cooperation
engagementsis presented in ScheduleD.


         A. DESCRIPTION NEW PROPOSED ACTIVITIES
                              OF


23.      The proposed Additional Financing will cover the following five areas of focus in
its activities: (i) policy, legal and regulatory framework;(ii) institutional restructuring and
strengtheningof the Extractive Industriespublic sector, particularly under the Ministry of
Mines; (iii) support to integration of large-scalemining projects to regional development;
(iv) management of potential conflict between environmental protection and large-
scale/small-scale mining; and (v) improved government and management capacity of
small-scalemining activities. All of these activities fit into the three technical assistance
componentsof the original credit. The original componentswill be scaled up as follows:

24.      The policy, legal and regulatory framework reforms under the scaled up
credit will reinforce activities under Component 1 of the original credit
(Strengthening transparency and governance in mining). The initial focus of this set of
activities will be on formulating a comprehensive,updated mining and petroleum policy
and strategy, based on the results of the September 2006 "Strategic Decision Meeting"
(SDM), the 2006 Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), the continuous dialogue with the MAP


 ExtractiveIndustries Review: a process through which the WBG reviewed and assessed its activities
within the oil, gas and mining fields between 2001 and 2004. www.eireview.org
  As implied, for example on the mission statement of the Oil, Gas and Mining Policy unit of the WBG:
"Helping clients manage mineral resources in a sustainableand transparent way to reduce poverty."

Advisory Team under the Presidency, with the regional and central-level authorities and
with stakeholders from the private sector and the civil society.

25.     The sector legal and renulatow framework will be further developed, including:
(i) a revision~reformulationof the hydrocarbons law and model production sharing
contract on the basis of a streamlined institutional structure, eliminating potential
conflicts of interest and regulatory gaps and (ii) adjustments to the mining legal and
regulatory framework, including possibly a revision of the 199912005Mining Code and
the "Law on Large-scale Mining Investments." The petroleum sector work will be done
in coordination with the project supported by the Norwegian Government Oil for
GovernanceInitiative, as well as other initiatives such as EITI, as outlined in ScheduleD.

26.     The fiscal framework for the mining and petroleum sectors will also be assessed
and legal adjustments that would optimize the Malagasy growth potential and sector
contribution to the national and regionaVloca1 economies would be proposed, including
the preparation of regulations and mechanisms which might be needed for the proper
transfer and management of fiscal revenues to the regions or municipalities. In addition,
in coordination with the EITI process, needed modifications would be identified to
improve transparency in the flows of revenues generated by the EI sector.

27.     Because of its close link with the modernization of the petroleum legal
framework, support to the restructuring of the upstream hydrocarbons institutional
framework would be provided under this component, and would be carried out through,
La., (i) restructuring and strengthening OMNIS, better defining and separating the
agency's present functions as a regulator and operator in the upstream hydrocarbons
sector and through transferring upstream hydrocarbons regulatory functions to a specific
entity under the MdE; and (ii) transferring the non confidential mining, oil and gas geo-
information of OMNIS data to the National Geological Survey established under the
scaled up Component 3. Assistance will be provided through the provision of services
and in cooperation with the assistance provided by the Government of Norway, in
particular with respect to the strategy and pace of the institutional reform.

28.     Overall support to the removal of barriers to investments in the extractive
industries by improving coordination among ministries, streamlining procedures and
strengtheningcapacities will be provided.

29.     Scaled up institutional reforms aimed at improved public governance and
management capacity related to large and small-scale mining under the proposed
Additional Financing would reinforce the second component of the PGRM (Key
institutional reforms for the decentralized management of mineral reforms).
Activities under the second component of PGRM would be scaled up through the
implementation of (i) the revised sector strategy developed in 2005 by MdM to respond
to the recent surge of large scale mining; (ii) the recommendations of studies carried out
in 2006 regarding streamlining and strengthening of the public mining institutions; (iii)
the recommendations of the 2006 sector SDM and MAP regarding management of the

large and small-scale mining; and (iv), policies and strategies developed under
Component 1(see above).

30.     Activities aimed at integration of large-scale mining projects into regional
development. Under PGRM and in cooperation with the Integrated Growth Poles (I2G)
project, a series of activities in the Anosy region (Fort Dauphin area) have been
developed to support the integration of large-scale mining into local, regional and
national economies.It is critical to continue implementationof the Anosy region program
and to extend them to two other areas where (i) large-scalemining exploitation is planned
and (ii) the existing community and municipal management are in need of capacity
reinforcement to optimize smooth integration of such programs. The following activities
are planned to be added under component2 of PGRM in this context:

31.     Anosy region/Fort Dauphin/QMM ilmenite project. In coordination with the 12G
project and other donors, continued support to: (i) Local Coordination Committee (LCC)
for the coordination of local development plans in the Anosy region. The Anosy LCC is
already established and its activities would be supported, in coordination with the WB
12G project, through technical assistance and the provision of goods and works. (ii) The
Chief of Region Office: implementation, monitoring and update of regional community
development plans; (iii) Local Development Fund (cooperation with Commdev, a joint
PC-World Bank grant facility to support communitiesin extractive industries areas)

32.     Amatory (DynatedNickel mine) and Tulear (Madagascar Sanddilmenite) regions
would benefit fi-omthe following activities under the Additional Financing: (i) Dynamic
Natural Resources Management platform: development of an integrated information and
management system aiming at facilitating identification, decision making and monitoring
of local and regional development plans; (ii) capacity building at municipal and
community levels; (iii) consultative and participatory processes, Local Development Plan
formulation and set-up of development f h d s in coordination with other similar
initiatives; and (iv), set-up and support to LCC(s).

33.     Component 2 of PGRM will also be reinforced with activities aimed at
environmental and social issues in the mining sector (large-scale and small-scale) and
proper coordination with the management of protected areas. Following the Durban
Declaration (September 2003) by the President of Madagascar and the decision by the
Government to triple the size of the protected areas, the potential conflicts with large,
artisanal and small-scale mining have increased. A number of mining permits overlap
with such areas - or potential future ones   - and initial successful efforts to manage this
issue need to be systematized and strengthened. To respond to this situation, activities to
be implementedinclude: (i) strengtheningof capacity of the established "Inter-ministerial
Mines-Forests Committee"; (ii) establishment and capacity building of a proper mining
inspectorate unit; (iii) mapping and prioritization of areas that may pose potential
conflicts, and development and implementation of an action plan to solve such conflicts
optimizing both conservation and development goals; (iv) clear identification of
environmental "no go" zones; (v) management of ASM in relation to protected areas
(based on earlier success stories); and (vi) coordination with National Environmental
Agency (ONE) and National Park Agency (ANGAP).

34.    A streamlined mining inspectorate entity,based on the existing Mining Inspection
Service under the Directorate of Mines (DM), and including the "Environmental Mining
Cells" (CEM) already establishedthrough PGRM, would be organized and supported.

35.    The Madagascar Gemological Institute (IGM), already established under the
PGRM, would continue to benefit from support under the proposed additional financing,
including support to its regional training facilities. A sustainable regulatory and financial
support mechanism for mining institutions would be created to ensure their sustainability
beyond the life of the project.

36.    The new activities planned under Component 2 would also focus on
implementing of the new action plan for improved governance and capacity building in
the small-scale mining sector, which is being developed by the Ministry of Mines (EI
SDM 2006, recommendations from the Antsirabe Communities and Small-scale Mining
(CASM) initiative annual conference and ASM SDM to be held in May 2007). The
following new activities will be included: (i) monitoring and evaluation of small-scale
mining practices; (ii) carrying out sensitization and education campaigns to familiarize
small-scale miners with applicable legal and regulatory texts and procedures; (iii)
provision of technical assistance and capacity building, especially best practice training;
(iv) increased push on small-scale mining sector formalization and legalization,
registration services, rapid response to mining rush situation; and (v) community
development.

37.    Support to the set-up of regulatory and financial mechanisms to ensure the long-
term sustainability of extractive industries institutions and of their functions will be
provided.

38.    Finally, activities aimed at strengtheningof mining entities and agencies that
fall under the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines would be added to reinforce
component3 of the original credit (Promotingprivateinvestments and vahe-added in
the sector. A National Geological Survey (NGS) entity will be set up based on the
integration and streamlining of the recently established Geological Directorate as well as
the Mineral Resources GovernanceData Bank (BPGRM) and the Geological and Mining
Information System (SIGM) already established under, respectively, PGRM and the
French AFD-funded Mining Institutional Strengthening Project (PRISMM). The NGS
will benefit through the provision of services, goods and works.

39.    As part of the support to the NGS, synthesis and broad dissemination of the geo-
scientific information infrastructure developed under the PGRM and other initiatives,
such as the PRISMM and others, will be carried out through the provision of services.

40.    Project Coordination and Management. The UCPM will continue to be
responsible for the management, monitoring and evaluation, of the Project and will
benefit from increased operational costs under the Additional Financing. Considering the
importance of policy, strategy and actions coordination between the different
stakeholders involved in the reform of the EI sector in Madagascar, an Extractive

Industries Coordination Unit has recently been established by the Presidency, and will
benefit from support under the Additional Financing through the provision of services
and operational costs.


41.    Donors Coordination. Close coordination with other donors and WBG
operations will be an important factor for the success of the Additional Financing. (See
also Section I above).


       B. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION,FINANCIALMANAGEMENT,DISBURSEMENT
       AND PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS


42.    The total project cost, including taxes and duties, is estimated at US$8.8 million.
The breakdown of estimated costs is shown in Schedule A. Schedule B demonstrates the
project financing plan and disbursement schedule. A summary of procurement and
financial arrangementsis included under Section V below.

43.    The implementation mechanisms would be the same under the Additional
Financing as under the PGRM. Implementation of PGRM has been successful, and all
fiduciaryrequirementshave been met.

44.    A new project implementation manual (PIM) will be issued to reflect changes
under the Additional Financing. Updates in the Financial Management arrangementswill
be reflected in the new PIM.

45.    The proposed additional financingwill use the sameprocurement arrangementsas
the original credit. The 2004 Procurement Guidelines will apply. A separate procurement
plan for the additional financing has been prepared and approved by the World Bank
procurement team. This procurement plan will be updated annually to reflect actual
project implementationprogress and needs.

46.    The closing date of the initial credit will be extended by two years fi-om
December 31, 2008 to December 31,2010 and the Additional Financing closing date will
also be December 31,2010.


  IV. CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

47.    The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Madagascar was reviewed by the
Board on October 20,2003. The new CAS was presented to the Board on April 3, 2007.
Both documents underscore the importance of the minerals sector for the country's
economic growth and good governance development. The 2003 CAS highlights the
importance of the PGRM's ability to focus on "establishing and enforcing rules and
regulations in the high potential mining sector in ~ a d a ~ a s c a r .The
                                                                        " ~ mining sector
reforms are also identified as having contributed to economic growth in the 1990s,while


 World Bank Report Number 27053-MAG, 2003 CAS, p.17.

weak governance prevented fiu-ther sector development. The new CAS centers around
two pillars: (i) activities that will help remove key bottlenecks to investment and growth
in rural and urban areas and (ii) bringing together activities geared toward improving
access to, and quality of, services. The 2007 CAS identifies the mining sector's strong
potential and the governance challenges that remain, stating that the mining sector
regulatory framework and implementation capacity are in need of further improvements.
The proposed additional financing supports the first pillar of the new CAS by improving
the investment climate and governancein the minerals sector.



  V. APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES

48.    No exceptionsto Bank policies will take place under the Additional Financing.

49.     Although the project is being scaled up, the program remains as originally
designed and appraised. The economic, fiduciary,institutional,technical, environmental
and social would remain the same as under the original credit.




50.    Implementation mechanisms would remain the same under the additional
financing as for the ongoing project, as they are working well. The present UCPM will
be maintained and will be responsible for the operational and fiduciary management of
the Project. An overall extractive industries sector coordination unit will be set up and
will be maintained, and will carry out the donor harmonization function. The project's
implementation capacity was assessed during preparation and the activities and targets
were agreed upon. The project will continue to provide capacity enhancement assistance
to project staff to support the scale-up activities, including training and short term
technical assistance as required.




51.    The financial management arrangements of the UCPM responsible for the
implementation of the components/activities under the Mineral Resources Governance -
Additional financinghave been reviewed to determine whether they are acceptable to the
Bank. This review is rather an update since the FM system of this entity has already been
assessed in the context of the ongoing Mineral Resources Governance Project. The
conclusion resulting from this review determined that the UCPM continues to maintain
an adequate financial management system as required by the OPIBP 10.02. The UCPM
system is strengthened by the following salient features: i) existence of qualified and
skilled accounting staff acquainted with Bank procedures; ii) adequate internal control
system including suitable authorization procedures, appropriate segregation of duties and
responsibilities, reliable budgeting system, and adequate measures for safeguarding
assets; iii) use of an accounting system following generally accepted accounting
standards and capable of producing in a timely manner all relevant information required

for managing and monitoring project activities; iv) existence of an accounting manual of
procedures providing clear guidance to staff. The financial management risk is assessed
as being moderate. Yet, the review of the project's Chart of accounts is needed to reflect
new activities outlined in the Project Paper in order to satisfy reporting requirements
under the additional financing. Since the UCPM has already started updating the chart of
accounts which is expected to be completed prior to April 30, 2007, this measure does
not constitute a condition for the processing of the Additional Financing. The UCPM
would continue to prepare quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) to track
expenditures for the project. The form and content of FMRs has been determined as part
of project appraisal and agreed at negotiations. The chart of accounts and the models of
FMRs will be formalized in the new accountingmanual of procedures, to be approved by
IDA as a condition of effectiveness.

52.    Transaction-based disbursement procedures (traditional mode) would continue to
be followed throughout the implementation period of the project. To ensure timely and
reliable flow of funds, the UCPM will use a new designated account as for the original
credit, opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Denominated in $ US,
disbursements from IDA credit will be deposited on this account to finance all project
eligible expenditures inferior to 20% of the authorized allocation. The authorized
allocation for the designated account covering IDA'Scontribution would be $ US 500,000
covering IDA'S share of four (4) months of estimated expenditures Further deposits by
IDA into the designated account would be made against withdrawal applications
submitted at least on a monthly basis and supported by appropriate documents. The
UCPM would be responsible for preparing disbursement requests. All supporting
documents will be retained by the UCPM and made available for review by periodic
Bank supervision missions and external auditors. Disbursements will be made against
Statement of Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring the Bank's prior
review.

53.    The accounting manual of procedures describes in details the disbursement
procedures as well as the application steps and requirements for requesting a
reimbursement, replenishment of the designated account, direct payment for third party,
and applying for a special commitment. The minimum value established by IDA is
documented in the disbursement letter related to the additional financing.

54.    The project financial statements will be audited annually by an international
accounting firm acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards of
Auditing. For this purpose, the contract with the current external auditors will be
amended in order to include the audit of the additional financing. Recruitment of auditors
acceptableto IDA is a condition of effectiveness. The terms of reference of the audit will
be reviewed by the financial management specialist of the BankIIDA to ensure the
adequacy of the audit scope. The auditorswill be required to: i) express an opinion on the
project financial statements; ii) cany out a comprehensive review of the internal control
procedures and provide a management report outlining any recommendations for their
improvement. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA not later than six months aRer

the end of each fiscal year. The FM assessment report is provided in Schedule B of the
Project Paper.




55.     Procurement arrangements under the proposed additional financing will be the
same as the arrangements under the Mineral Resources Governance Credit; however, the
updated Guidelines of 2004 will apply.5 For each contract to be financed by the Credit,
the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods,                     estimated costs,
prior review requirements, and time frame are outlined in the Financing Agreement, the
OperationalManual and the ProcurementPlan.

56.     A separate procurement plan for the additional financing has been prepared and
approved by the Bank procurement team. It will not be integrated into the Global
Procurement Plan of the Mineral Resources Governance Credit and will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvementsin institutional capacity.


        D. ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL  AND             ISSUES


57.     The Borrower has been successfully implementing the existing credit since 2003.
The project has a number of safeguards issues, which the Borrower was able to address
under the Environmental Management Plan disclosed in December 2002.                                  The
environmental classification of the Additional financing remains Category B.                         The
mission undertaken in January-February 2007 analyzed the various environmental tools
available in the current phase of implementation. The mission determined and agreed
with the Borrower that: (i) the Borrowers will lay out and strengthen a structure
responsible for management of environmental and social risks in the mining sector; (ii)
environmental guidelines will be available by December 2007 and used in the sector. A
sectoral environmental assessmentwas carried out during the original project preparation.
The environmental structure in charge of managing the safeguard aspects of the mining
sector works under the supervision of the National Office for the Environment (ONE),
department in charge of the environmental assessments and the Environmental impact
studies in Madagascar under the supervision of the Environmental and Forest Ministry
and in coordinationwith the CEMs under MdM.

58.     A review of the sector environmentalmanagement capacity and an environmental
analysis of the project components, including the adequacy of the existing environmental
management tools, were carried out prior to project appraisal. The assessment provided a
clear evaluation of the sector institutional framework, and an analysis of coherence,
strengths and weaknesses of the environmentaltools available in the sector. It resulted in
a proposal of measures and indicators for mitigation and recommendations regarding

 Procurement of goods and works required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
grant shallbe governed by the "Guidelinesfor Procurementunder IBRD Loans and IDA Credit"published
by the Bank in May 2004. Procurementof consultants' servicesshall be governed by the "Guidelines for the
Selectionand Employment of Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004.

environmental management and monitoring of the sector. This study was reviewed and
approved by the Bank on March 23,2007, and disclosed on March 31,2007in country.

59.    During implementation of the Additional Financing, the multi-sectoral platform
for environmental management will be consolidated and an extended audit of sector
environmental management capacity, achievements and recommendations for
adjustments will be implemented, at the latest by September 2009. Environmental
guidelines for environmental management of the mining sector satisfactory to IDA
should be developed no later than December 2007.


 VI. EXPECTED OUTCOMES

The additional activities proposed will extend the impact of the original project
development objectives. The followingadditional indicators are proposed:


   (i)    No later than 18 months after the date of effectiveness,updated hydrocarbons
          law and regulations, also addressing environmental concerns have been
          prepared in line with of international practice, and a draft law has been
          submitted to the Parliament;

   (ii)   The Production Sharing Contract model, to be applied to new petroleum
          permits, has been revised in line with international practices and in agreement
          with relevant Madagascar laws, 18months after effectiveness;

   (iii)  No later than December 31, 2008, the Borrower shall have adopted a plan
          with specifictime based measures for the restructuringof OMNIS;

   (iv)   No later than 18 months after the date of effectiveness,the fiscal framework
          for mining, including large scale investments, has been reviewed to include
          adjustmentsto optimize fiscal revenues,while maintaining a competitive edge
          to investments,and a draft law has been submitted to the Parliament.

   (v)    Barriers to investments and development of large scale mining projects have
          been minimized through implementation of inter-ministerialcoordination and
          adjustments to the legal and institutional frameworks, 18 months after
          effectiveness;

   (vi)   Mechanisms to ensure a fair participation and usage of mining fiscal revenues
          for the regions and municipalities have been defined and agreed, and the
          relevant adjustments or development of laws and regulations drafted and
          proposed to the Assembly 18months after effectiveness;

   (vii)  Training of staff at the agencies in charge of hydrocarbons (upstream) and
          mining implemented;

   (viii) Education and training programs related to Extractive Industries at
          Madagascar universities have improved and been modernized to respond to
          the evolution of the EI industriesin the country;

    (ix)    Methodologies to facilitate and promote the integration of large scale mining
            projects into local economic development have been developed and are
            applied by regional and local authorities and CBOs, 18 months after
            effectiveness;

    (x)     No later than 18 months after the date of effectiveness, methodologies to
            control ASM rushes and to manage conflicts between ASM activities and
            protected areas have been developed and are ready for implementation at
            central and decentralized level;

    (xi)    Within 24 months from the date of effectiveness, the National Geological
            Survey and the integrated sector data bank and information systems have been
            established and are operative;

    (xii)   The mining inspectorate regulatory functions, as defined under the 2005
            Mining Code and its regulations, and under the responsibility of MdM, have
            been streamlined 18months after effectiveness;

    (xiii) No later than by December 2009, financial mechanisms for long term
            sustainabilityof mining institutionshave been established and are operative.



  VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS


60.     BENEFITS.The new activities will Wher involve sector stakeholders and will
broaden the contribution of international expertise to Madagascar mining and
hydrocarbons sector management. It is expected that the additional financing will
facilitate sector monitoring and dialogue and improve sector management to maximize
extractive industries benefits for the country. Furthermore, relevant sector stakeholders
(i.e. GoMIMdM; OMNIS; local communities at selected sites) will gain an improved
understanding of mining sector operations and of management of flow of revenues.
Private sector operators in the Madagascar extractive industries sector will benefit from
improved institutional framework stability and conditions for investment, including
enforcement of environmental rules and regulations. Civil society counterparts will also
gain from improved awareness of mining and oil development effects and transparency.

61.     RISKS. The table below outlines the risks faced by the proposed component, along
with the proposed risk mitigation measures.


                   Risk                      Risk MitigationMeasure            Evaluation


 Government commitmentto                Coordinationwith other WB          Medium
 governance and transparentoil revenue  operationsand other partners
 management procedures                  (AfDB, GoN, French Cooperation),
                                        implementation of EITI program
 Lack of human resources capacity to    Resources for capacity             MediumILow
 act as local counterparts              buildingltraining

                 Risk                       Risk MitigationMeasure             Evaluation


Communicationdifficultiesamong         Increased institutional capacityto   Medium
stakeholders                           manage the extractiveindustries
                                       sector, implementation of the EITI
                                       and integration of large scalemining
                                       in local economic developmentwill
                                       facilitatethe dialoguebetween
                                       government,private sectorpartners
                                       and communities
Conflictsbetween extractiveindustries  Increased environmental              MediumIHigh
developmentprojects, includingASM,     management capacity and
and protected areas                    coordination;streamlined
                                       monitoring;land use conflicts
                                       management mechanism; increased
                                       awareness.
ASM sector fails to contributeto local Strengthenoutreach programs based    HighIMedium
and national economicdevelopment       on lessons learned duringthe
                                       original PGRM; further support to
                                       IGM.



 VIII. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE
 ADDITIONAL FINANCING
The additional financing will be provided in the form of an IDA credit. The additional
Conditions of Effectivenessconsist of the following:

      The Extractive Industries Coordinatorhas been recruited under terms, conditions
      and terms of reference acceptableto the Association;
      The Project ImplementationManual has been finalized in form and substance
      acceptableto the Association; and
      The Recipient has employedthe independent auditors referred to in Section 4.09
      (b) of the General Conditions.
      No later than December 31,2008, the Borrower shall have adopted a plan with
      specifictime based measures for the restructuring of OMNIS.
      The Recipient shall deposit into the Project Account sufficientresources to
      provide counterpart funding in connection with the Financing.

                                     IX. Schedule A

                               SOURCE OF FINANCING
                                 (in US$million equivalent)



                                   Local     Foreign       Total      Percentageof
                                                                   Foreign Expenditures
IDA                                 1.50       6.50        8.00            100


GOVERNMENT                          0.80       0.00        0.80            0.00


Total                               2.30       6.50        8.80           73.86


                     FINANCING PLAN (by Project Component)
                                 (in US$million equivalent)


Project Cost By Component and/or                 Local         Foreign        Total
Activity
Component 1: StrengtheningTransparency            0.100          0.320        0.420
and Governance in Mining

Component 2: Key institutionalreforms for         1.450          4.030        5.480
Decentralized management of mineral
resources
Component 3: PromotingPrivate investment          0.350          0.950        1.300
and Value Added in the Sector
Component 4: Coordinationand management           0.150          0.450        0.600
Total Baseline Cost                               2.050          5.750        7.800
Contingencies                                     0.250          0.750        1.OOO
                       Total Project Costs        2.300          6.500        8.800



                 Total FinancingRequired          2.300          6.500        8.800


                             DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
                                 (in US$million equivalent)

      IDA FY                2008              2009              2010           2011

      Annual                 1.5               3.O              3.O            0.5
   Cumulative                1.5               4.5              7.5            8.0

ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTOF ADDITIONALFINANCING
                                (in US$)



    Category         Amount of the      Percentageof Expendituresto
                  Financing Allocated            be Financed
                  (expressed in SDR)    [(inclusive][exclusiveof Taxes])

(1) Goods, works  8,000,000             100%of Foreign Expenditures
and consultants'                        and 85% of Local Expenditures
services for the
Project

TOTAL             8,000,000
AMOUNT

  X. Schedule B


          FINANCIALMANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT REPORT


1- Introduction

62.     In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the financial management
arrangements of the UCPM (Mineral Project Coordination Unit) responsible for the
implementation of project activities supported under the additional financing have been
reviewed to determine whether they are acceptable to the Bank. This review is rather an
update since the FM system of this entity has already been assessed in the context of the
ongoing "Mineral Resources GovernanceProject".

2- Fiduciary

63.     The overall conclusion of this review is that the UCPM financial management is
still acceptable but the project chart of accounts needs to be updated to reflect new
components and activities outlined in the Project Paper in order to satisfy reporting
requirements under the additional financing. Since the UCPM has already started
updating the chart of accounts which is expected to be completedprior to April 30, 2007,
this measure does not constitute a condition for the processing of the Supplemental
Financing. The UCPM would continue to prepare quarterly FMRs to track expenditures
for the project. The form and content of FMRs have been determined as part of project
appraisal and agreed at negotiations. The chart of accounts and the models of FMRs will
be formalized in the accountingmanual of procedures.

64.     The project financial statements will be audited annually by an international
accounting firm acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards of
Auditing. For this purpose, the contract with the current auditors will be amended in
order to include the audit of the supplemental financing. This measure is a condition of
effectiveness. The terms of reference of the audit will be reviewed by the financial
management specialist of the BankIIDA to ensure the adequacy of the audit scope. The
audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. In Madagascar no significant problems have been encountered in terms of audit
covenants: all audit reports related to Bank financed projects have been received in time.
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after
the closing of the Credit and of the Additional Financing..

3- Summary Project Description

65.     The development objectives of this project would be the same as for the original
credit. (see Section I11of the Project Paper).

4- Country issues

66.     The World Bank's CFAAICPAR, completed in 2003, and some diagnostic works
carried out over the last three years by the Bank and other donors, identified a range of
weaknesses and issues hampering the performance of Madagascar's budget and
expenditure management system. To address these issues, the government has developed
in 2004, 2005 and 2006 in conjunction with all key development partners, a priority
actionplan for public finance reform.

67.     While overall implementation progress of the reform program is encouraging,
significant works remains, including the following: i) improvement of budget execution
rate in priority sectors; ii) reinforcement of the capacity of the line ministries in public
financial management, especially in the implementation of the new program budget
structure; iii) strengthening of cash management; iv) production of the treasury accounts
within the legal timeframe; v) insufficient number of skilled and experienced auditors at
the "Charnbre des comptes" commensuratewith the complexity and increased number of
missions to be undertaken; vi) reinforcement of control over State owned companies and
national public institutions. To mitigate risks in public expenditure management, the
World Bank, through the on going Governance and Institutional Development Program
(PGDI), and a number of donors, continue to support Government's public finance
reforms, as reflected in its annualpriority actionplan.

68.     Regarding the accounting profession, some positive developments have been
noted over the last three years. However, a number of local accounting firms continue to
operate below the international standards. To improve the capacity and the
competitivenessof local auditing firms, the followingmeasures have been recommended
while auditing BanMIDA financed projects: i) obligation for local auditors to enter into
partnership with international accounting firms; ii) effective participation of the
international accounting firm in audit fieldworks and submission of audit report jointly
signed by the local and international audit firms. An accounting and auditing ROSC
would be certainly helpful to identify clearly both issues and actions to be taken to
strengthenthe capacity of the accountingprofession in Madagascar.

69.    The use of country systems still remains risky for Madagascar due to some
fiduciary weaknesses that will require much more time in order to improve. As a result
and after exchanges of views with the borrower (Ministry of Finance) it was agreed, in
the context of this additional financing, to use partially the country system and to
establish transitional     financial management      system     arrangements while      the
sectorlnationalfiduciary systems are being strengthened.

5- FM Risk Assessment and Mitigation

70.    The following table identifies the key risks that the project management may face,
and provides the measures to be taken to mitigate these risks:

            Risks            Risk    Risk MitigationMeasures             Condition         Residual
                             rating                                            of           Risk
                                                                            Board or       rating
                                                                          Effectiveness

1- Inherent Risk

Country Level.
Delays in the production of    S    These issues are being addressed    NO                   M
public accounts, and audit          throughthe ongoingPFM reforms       The amendment
may not be conductedin              supportedby IDA (throughthe         of the contract
compliancewith international        Governance and Institutional        of the current

auditingstandards due to:           Development Project) and other      auditors of
                                                                        UCPM is being
weak capacity of the                donors. In the meantime,the audit
                                                                        processed and
accountingprofession in             of the WB-financed projects will
                                                                        the new
Madagascar,and; ii)                 be carried out by international     is expected to be
inadequatenumber of skilled         accountingfirms or by               finalized prior to
and experiencedauditors at          internationalaccounting firms       May 15,2007.
the "Chambre des comptes"           associatedwith local auditing
in particular.                      firms, with effectiveparticipation
                                    of the former(international
                                    accounting f m ) in the fieldwork.
Entity Level                  M                                                               L
The use of country systems          Development partners will           NO
stillremains risky for              continue to support the GoM
Madagascar due to some              priority action plan for public
fiduciary weaknesses that           financereforms including training
will require much more time         and capacitybuilding in the area of
in order to improve. But the        public financialmanagement.
UCPM FM system is working
well and its performancein          While the national fiduciary
accounting,financial                systems are being strengthened,the
reporting and auditingis            financialmanagement (FM)
globally satisfactory.              aspects of this project will be
                                    entrustedto the UCPM which has
                                    extensiveexperience from
                                    previous IDA projects in
                                    implementing activities of this
                                    nature.

Project Level                  L
The BNP has strong
experiencewith
implementingan IDA-
financed project.

Overall Inherent Risk          M                                                              L

2- ControlRisk


Budgeting                      L
Budget preparation clearly
defined and variances

            Risks             Risk    Risk Mitigation Measures             Condition      Residual
                              rating                                             of        Risk
                                                                              Board or     rating
                                                                            Effectiveness
monitored closely



Accounting

Transactions may not be        M     Review of the UCPM chart of          NO: the
accounted for properly due to        accounts to reflect new              review of the
Chart of accounts not updated        components and activities to         Chart of
yet.                                 satisfy reporting requirements       accounts is
                                     under additional financing.          underway and
                                                                          expected to be
                                                                          completed
                                                                          prior to April
                                                                          30,2007.


Internal control                L                                                            L



Funds flows                     L                                                            L



Financial Reporting:           M                                                             L

Content and format of the            The content and format of the        NO: Quarterly
FMRs not yet defined: risk of        FMRs needs to be defined to          financial
delays in the production and         ensure proper monitoring of          statement
submission of FMRs                   project activities.                  reporting
                                                                          arrangements
                                                                          and formats
                                                                          agreed during
                                                                          project
                                                                          negotiations.

Auditing:                       S                                                           M

The quality of the audit may         Reviewlamendmentof the contract      YES
not be acceptable and the            of the current auditors of UCPM in   Recruitment of
report not delivered in time         order to include the audit of the    auditors
due to the limited number of         financial statements under the       acceptable to
skilled and experienced              supplemental credit. Possibility for IDA is a
auditors within the General          the Auditor General to join the      conditionof
Audit Office (Chambre des                                                 effectiveness
                                     team while carrying out this audit.
comptes)

Overall Control Risk           M                                                             L
OVERALL RISK RATING            M                                                             L


6- Strengths,Weaknesses and Action Plan

The project financialmanagement strengths are as follows:

         the UCPM has strong experience in managing World Bank funds for being in
         charge of the implementation of the ongoing Mineral Resources Governance
         Project;
         the organizational structure in place defines the lines of responsibilities and
         authority that exist and it is appropriate for planning, directing and controlling
         operations;
         the accounting/budgeting system is adequate: it follows accounting standards
         generally acceptable to IDA and is capable of producing in a timely manner all
         relevant information required for managing and monitoring project activities
         the accounting staff is qualified and knowledgeablewith Bank procedures;
         the internal control is adequate: suitable authorization procedures, appropriate
         segregationof duties and responsibilities,reliable budgeting system, and adequate
         measures for safeguardingassets;
         the UCPM has an administrativeand accountingmanual of procedures.

The main weaknesses noted in the UCPM financialmanagement systems are summarized
in the followinrr table which also ~rovidesrelevant measures to address them:

Si~nificantweaknesses                             Action                       -
                                                                               Date        Responsible
                                                                               due by

1- Chart of accounts not       Reviewlupdate of the existing Chart of        0413012007    UCPM: Chief
updated yet to reflect new     accounts accounting manual of procedures                    accountant
components/activities.         to reflect new components/activitiesand
                               satisfyreporting requirements.



2- Content and format of the   The content and format of the FMRs needs      Completed     UCPM
FMRs not yet defined: risk of  to be defined to ensureproper monitoring of   at
delays in the production and   project activities.                           negotiations.
submissionof FMRs


3- Absence of arrangement      Reviewlamendmentof the contract               0511512007    UCPM:
regarding the audit of the     of the current auditorsof UCPM in order to                  Procurement
supplemental financing.        include the audit of the financial statements               Officer
                               under the supplementalcredit.



7- Institutional and Implementation arrangements

71.      The Ministry of Mines, through the existing UCPM (Mining Project Coordination
Unit) will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The UCPM will
continue to maintain records and accounts for all transactions related to the project
supported under the additional financing, manage disbursements from the designated
account, and prepare its financial statements and other basic information on project
managementlmonitoringas required by the financing agreement.

8- Budgeting

72.     Budgeting arrangements for UCPM are described clearly in its accounting manual
of procedures. The accounting software in place will be adequate for the budgeting
arrangementsof the project.

9- Accounting

73.     The accounting system in place is in compliance with generally accepted
accounting standards. It uses standardbook accounts (journals, ledgers and trial balances)
to enter and summarizetransactions and operates on a double entry accrual principle. The
UCPM maintains financial records for all transactions under its responsibility and is in
charge of timely production of project financial statements and quarterly FMRs.

74.     To satisfyreporting requirementsthe existing Chart of accounts will be updated in
order to reflect new components/activities to be implemented under the supplemental
credit. This update is expectedto be finalizedprior to April 30,2007.
The UCPM is using an integrated computerized system acquired within the context of the
ongoing Mineral Resources Governance Project. It facilitates annual programming of
activities and project resources, record-keeping (general accounting and cost accounting),
financial and budgetary management and preparation of project financial statements,
including FMRs. However, the reconfiguration of this software will be needed to take
into account the new Chart of accounts and allow for timely production of the annual
financial statements and quarterly FMRs. For this purpose, the project is invited to
finalize the update of the chart of accountswithin the agreed timeframe.

10- Internal Control

75.     The UCPM has a good internal control system: proper authorization of
transactions, adequate separation of duties, reliable budgeting system, and adequate
measures for safeguarding assets. In addition a financial management manual is available
describing clearly the lines of responsibilities and authority that exist with appropriate
segregation of duties, the tasks to be performed by each member of staff, documentation
to be used, and controls to be applied. This manual provides also a detailed description
of: i) the configuration of the financial management and accounting system, and the
models of reports to be produced. The project accounting staff is qualified, acquainted
with Bank procedures, and has relevant experience in accounting. The staff is composed
of a chief accountant and an accountant. Since the project organizational structure is
centralized, no internal audit function is required at the present time.

11- Funds Flow and Disbursementarrangements

The flow of funds from IDA is presented as follows:

                            I                       I
                               World BaokllDA



                                      UCPM
                                  Designated account
                                   Project account




                                     v ,

                           Contractors,suppliersof goods and services



Disbursementfrom IDA credit and Government counterpartfunds

76.    For the implementation of this project, the UCPM will use the following accounts
opened in local commercial banks under conditions satisfactoryto IDA:
               One designated Account: Denominatedin $ US, funds from the IDA credit
               will   be  deposited    on    this   account    to:   i) finance project
               components/activities agreed with IDA in accordance with the
               disbursementpercentage(s) indicated in the DCA.
               A project account: Denominated in local currency, the counterpart funds
               from the government will be deposited on this account opened in a local
               commercial bank to ensure prompt payment of contractors/suppliers, in
               conformitywith the disbursementpercentages indicated in the DCA.

77.    The project implementation and accounting manuals will describe in details all
procedural aspects regarding financial management and disbursements from the
designated account and project account (payments, replenishment, accounting, reporting
and internal controls).

78.    Method of Disbursement: The UCPM would follow the transaction-based
disbursements procedures (traditional mode). Annual PERs have been providing the
analyticalbase on budget issues.

79.    Minimum of Application Size: The minimum application size for direct payments,
to be withdrawn directly from the Credit Account, and special commitments is 20% of
the amount advanced to the related designated account.

80.    Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs): Disbursements would be made against
Statement of Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring the Bank's prior
review. SOE statements would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptableto
the Bank.

81.     Designated Account: The amount of the designated account opened in the name
of the PGRM would be USD 500,000. The UCPM would be responsible for preparing
disbursement requests. The designated Account would finance all project eligible
expenditures inferior to 20% of the authorized allocation, and replenishment applications
would be submitted at least on a monthly basis. Further deposits by IDA into the
designated Account would be made against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriatedocuments.

82.     The designated account would be replenished on the basis of documentary
evidence of payments, eligible for financing under the IDA supplemental Credit. All
SOEs supporting documentation will be kept by the UCPM and made available for
review by bank supervisionmissions and internallexternalauditors.

12- Financial Reporting


83.     To monitor project implementation, The UCPM will produce the following
reports in compliancewith internationalaccounting standards:

        TheProjectfinancial statements comprising: i) Summary of Sources and Uses of
        Funds (by components/activities/credit category and showing all sources of
        funds); ii) the Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes; iii) a
        Management Assertion.

        Quarterly FMRs: The FMRs to be prepared by the UCPM will include financial
        reports, physical progress reports and procurement reports related to all project
        components to facilitate project monitoring. The project FMRs should be
        submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of the reporting period (quarter).

The form and content of quarterly FMRs and annual financial statements were
determined as part of project appraisal and agreed at negotiations. Models of these reports
will be presented in the project accountingmanual of procedures.

13- Auditing

84.     The project financial statements will be audited annually by an international
accounting firm acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards of
Auditing. For this purpose, the contract with the current external auditors will be
amended in order to include the audit of the supplemental financing. This measure is a
condition of effectiveness. The terms of reference of the audit will be reviewed by the
financial management specialist of the BanklIDA to ensure the adequacy of the audit
scope. The auditors will be required to: i) express an opinion on the project financial
statements; ii) carry out a comprehensive review of the internal control procedures and
provide a management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The
audit reports will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.

              Audit Report                                  Due Date
1- Project specific financial statements    Within six months after the end of each
                                            financial year.

14- Conditions

a. Effectiveness Conditions: Recruitment of auditors acceptableto IDA.

b) Financial covenants:


       The PGI financial statements shallbe audited annuallyby independent auditors
       acceptableto IDA;
       Production of quarterlyFMRs.


19- Supervision Plan


85.    A supervision mission will be conducted at least twice every year based on the
risk assessment of the project. The mission's objectives will include that of ensuring that
strong financial management systems are maintained for the project throughout its life. A
review will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures incurred by the project
remain eligible for IDA funding. The FMS will also review quarterly FMRs, the audit
reports and follow-up on timely implementation of recommendations from auditors. The
Implementation Status Report (ISR) will include a financial management rating for the
component.


XI. Schedule C -Timetableof Key Project ProcessingEvents

(a)    Time taken to prepare                2 months

(b)    Prepared by                          Gotthard Walser (Task Team Leader);
                                            Alexandra Pugachevsky (Operations Officer),
                                            Sylvain Rambeloson (Senior Procurement
                                            Specialist); Gervais Rakotoarimanana (Sr.
                                            Financial Management Specialist),Paul-Jean
                                            Feno (ETC, Environment),Yves Prevost
                                            (Senior Environmental Specialist);

(c)    Appraisal                            March 2007

(d)    Planned date of Effectiveness:       July 2007

(e)    Project Closing                      December 31,2010

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TF;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (WB)                                                                                                                                                                                                           Unit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EITI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (WB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (WB
                                                                                                                                                                                             Others                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cross-sectoral:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Intelligence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Economic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          accountability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        process
Matrix
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Country                                          Memorandum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EITI                          AfDB)                                                                                                                      Social                                                                                              TF;                                                                                                      Financial                      (CSVWB)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            up                                                                                                                                                       control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              set                                                                                                                                                           to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Strategy                                                                                                                                                                                                                      regulatory                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CSI,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sector
      Coordination                                                                                                               Projects
                                                                            Project                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BG,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              integrity
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Norway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MF,                                                                                                                                         petrol
                                                                                                                                         related                                                                                              Policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Legal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fund                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Management:                                                                ME,                                                                                        Build
                  Donor
                                                                                                                                                (EI)
                                                                                   Governance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Petroleum                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Petroleum:                               framework                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Revenue                                     Petroleum              Bianco,                                                                                      OMNIS:                                           corruption


                                                                                                                                                    Industries
                                                                                             Resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the

                       Resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     follow-                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                              etc.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ME,
                                                                 Madagascar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                under
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            projections                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             funding
                                                                                                      Mineral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ME,
                                                                                                                                                              Extractive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LGIM                                                                               decrees                                                                                                                                                                         IDA                                                                                                                                                      conducts,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2007)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         regulations,
                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                   Strategy:                                                                                                                                                                MF,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           propose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Revenue                                                                                                            Code,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               below)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WB/IDA                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       requested
                                Mineral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         needed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       code
                                                                                                             Financing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Decree                                                                                                        through                                                                                        Norwegian
                                                                                                                                                                          Matrix                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   systems,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                those
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mining                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IDA:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Review,                                                                                                                                             documents;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Management:                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mining                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          inspectorate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SDM.
                                                                                                                      Additional                                                                                         1                                                     Mining                                    up                                                                          Fiscal                                         and       MM                                                     Review                                 other adjustments                            Complete                             including                   new                                                                                                      Complement                                                                                       Complement                                                       through                                               complaints     M&E                   (ref
                                                                                                                                                                                Partnership

                                       Madagascar;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sector                                                            and                                                                                                            and                                                                               and                                                                              and                                                                                                                  and                                                             and                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                              Oil                         Mining                                                                             Oil                                      Mining                                   Oil                                  Mining                                      Oil                              Mining                                                                              Oil                         Mining                              Oil                     Mining                                                             Oil                           Mining                                                                                                                                                                            Oil                       Mining




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  policy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 legal
                                                   Schedule                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                transparency
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Priorities
                                                           XII.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Update                     strategy frameworks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Revenue



XIII. Map IBRD 33439

                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33439
                                                                 45E                                                                                                              50E




                                                                                                                                                   Antsiranana


                             MADAGASCAR                                      Mayotte
                                                                             (France)

                                                                                                                                                              Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                                      Vohimarina
                                                                                                                                       Ambanja      ANTSIRANANA
                                                                                                                                               Maromokotro
                                                                                                                                                  (2,876 m)
                                                                                l                                                                      Massif                            Sambava

                                                                   n   n    e                                                                      Tsaratanana

                                                            h  a                                                                                         Bealanana
                                                                                                                            Antsohihy                                          Andapa      Antalaha
15S                                                  C                                                                                                                                                               15S



                                        q   u   e                                                                                           Sofia     Befandriana                Maroantsetra


                                   b  i                                          Mahajanga

                                                                                                                                                          Mandritsara
                                m                                                                                                  Mampikony
                                                                   Soalala                                                                                                  vo     Mananara
                       o  z    a
                                                                                                                            MahajambaBemarivo                              a
                   M                                                                                                                                                      g
                                            Besalampy          B o n g o l a v aM A H A J A N G A                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                           Maevatanana
                                                            of
                                                      Clif fManambaho                                              Betsiboka                          Andilamena       f       Soanierana-Ivongo

                                                                                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                               Kandreho                                                         Lake                         Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                                                            Andriamena                      Alaotra


                                                                                                                                                 Vohidiala ASIN   liff
                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                     Maintirano                                    Mahavavy              Ankazobe                                         M
                                                                                                                                                         A             Toamasina
                                                               Ambaravaranala          ANTANANARIVO
                                               Antsalova                                             ANTANANARIVO                                      TO
                                                                                                                                      Moramanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I N D I A N
                                                                                    Soavinandriana           Tsiafajovona
                                                                                                               (2,642 m)
                                                                                                                                                             Vatomandry
                                                               Miandrivazo                                      a                                                                                O C E A N
                                        Belo Tsiribihina                                                                   Antanifotsy
                                                              Tsiribihina                                                                      Mangoro    Mahanoro
20S                                                                                                     AnkaratAntsirabe                                                                                             20S
                                        Morondava             Malaimbandy                             Mania
                                                                                           Ambatofinan-
                                                                                                    drahana
                                                                                                                         Ambositra                   Varika


                                                      Mandabe                                                         Ambohimahasoa


                                             Manja                                                 Fianarantsoa                                   Mananjary
                                                                                                                                                                               0     40     80  120  160 200 Kilometers
                                                            Beroroha
                             Morombe
                                                     Mangoky                      F I A N A R A N T S O A
                                                                                                                                                                               0        40         80   120 Miles

                                                                                                                                            Manakara
                                                            Ankazoabo                Ihosy                       Pic Boby
                                                                                                                 (2,658 m)                                                         50E
                                          T O L I A R A

                                          Fiherechana  Sakaraha                                                 Mananara               Farafangana                      MADAGASCAR
                                 Toliara                                         Betroka
                                                            Onilahy                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                             Betioky
                                                                                                       Midongy-
                                                                                                         Atsimo                                                                      PROVINCE (FARITANY) CAPITALS
                                                                                             Tsivory                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                       Berakete
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and                                     Ampanihy                      Mandrave                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
any other information shown                                                      PlateAmboasary
                                                                                           au
on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
the part of The World Bank                                   randra
                                                                  Androy                                                                            25S
Group, any judgment on the             Androka                                                                    Tolanaro
                                                                           Ambovombe
legal status of any territory,                          MenaBeloha                                                                                                                   PROVINCE (FARITANY) BOUNDARIES
or any endorsement or
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
boundaries.
                                                                 45E

                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOVEMBER 2004

