Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3754 MAG
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Mineral Resources Governance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3754 MAG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)  
the Borrower has issued a letter of mineral sector policy, dated  
January 28, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote transparency and good governance in the development of its mining sector (the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C) 
 
the Borrower intends to contract from 
Agence Française de 
Développement
 (AFD) a grant in an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 (the AFD Grant) to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a grant agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and AFD (the AFD Grant Agreement);  
(D) 
the Borrower intends to contract from United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) a grant in an amount of one million dollars  
($1,000,000) (the USAID Grant) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID 
(the USAID Grant Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following  
(a) “BAM” 
means 
Bureau de l’Administration Minière
,
a
mining 
administration office established under Part A.2 of the Project; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means an enterprise or individual engaged in artisanal and 
small-scale mining activities, or otherwise interested in such activities, and who is deemed 
eligible, in terms of criteria specified in the Project Implementation Plan, to be the 
beneficiary of a Grant; 
(c)  
“DGEM” 
means 
Direction Générale de l’Energie et des Mines
,
the 
General Directorate of Energy and Mines of MEM; 
(d) 
 “Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means an Environmental 
Management Plan, dated October 2, 2002, giving details of measures appropriate or 
required to manage potential environmental risks and mitigate adverse impacts associated 
with the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting 
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on 
compliance with, the EMP;  
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means a report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(f) 
 “Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on January 1 
in any one calendar year and ending on December 31 in the same calendar year; 
(g) 
“Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to finance a Subproject;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement referred to in paragraph 6 (g) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Grant Agreement; 
(i)  
“MEM” 
means 
Ministère de l’Energie et des Mines
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Energy and Mines;  
(j) “
Unité de Coordination du Projet Minier
”
or “UCPM” means 
Unité de 
Coordination du Projet Minier
,
the Borrower’s Mining Project Coordination Unit 
established under the Mining Sector Reform Project supported by the Association under a 
previous Credit (Credit 3111-MAG); 
(k) 
 “Project Account” means the project account referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) to this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Plan; 
(m) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 18, 2002, and countersigned on the same day on behalf 
of the Borrower; 
(n) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and 
(o) 
“Subproject” means any activity under Part C.1 of the Project, in respect 
of which a Grant has been, or may be, provided. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,200,000). 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the reasonable 
cost of eligible expenditures relating to a Subproject, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in dollars in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 (c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
Page  6
-
5
-
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
and November 1, commencing November 1, 2013 and ending May 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2023 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  7
-
6
-
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MEM, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate technical, administrative and financial practices, and with due regard to 
environmental and ecological considerations, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
For purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall allocate 
proceeds of the Credit not exceeding the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (6) 
of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be used to finance Grants 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, and 
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph 6 of  Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services
 
required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit
 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain, in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, an advance account in the currency of the Borrower (hereinafter 
referred to as the Project Account), to be operated and maintained by UCPM, into which 
it shall deposit from time to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of the 
Project; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial advance equivalent to 
$450,000, and thereafter replenish the Project Account on a semiannual basis, or 
whenever the balance thereof equals not more than one third of the amount of the initial 
deposit, whichever occurs first; and 
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used only 
for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred in the execution of the 
Project which are not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
the AFD Grant Agreement or USAID Grant Agreement shall have failed 
to become effective by December 31, 2004, or such later date as the Association may 
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the AFD Grant or 
USAID Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the AFD Grant Agreement or USAID Grant Agreement, as the 
case may be; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that (i) such suspension, 
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the amount of the initial 
advance deposited therein in accordance with Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;  
(b) 
the Project coordinator referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been duly recruited under terms, conditions and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the Project Implementation Plan has been adopted in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier. 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
 B.P. 
61 
 Antananarivo 
101 
 Madagascar 
 Cable 
address: 
 
   Facsimile: 
 MFB 
    (261) 
20 
22 
34530 
 Antananarivo 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By /s/ Radavidson Andriamparany Benjamin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Hafez Ghanem 
Authorized Representative 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
3,970,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
and
 
80% of local 
 
expenditures  
(2) 
Goods 
1,990,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
11,720,000 
85% of foreign 
 
and audits
 
expenditures and 
 
75%
of local 
 
expenditures 
(4) Training 
1,480,000 
100% 
(5) Operating 
costs 
1,910,000 
90% 
(6) 
Grants 
440,000 
100% of amounts 
 
of Grants disbursed 
(7) 
Refunding of 
690,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
(8) Unallocated 
1,000,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 
23,200,000
 
======== 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)  
the term “works” includes airborne geophysical surveys, and production 
of geological and geo-chemical maps and other scientific materials, under Part C.2 (a) 
and (b), respectively, of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries, employment 
benefits, travel expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and 
maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance, 
materials and supplies; and utilities and communications' expenses; and bank charges. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b) 
 in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been provided in accordance 
with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts below $250,000 equivalent and $500,000 equivalent, respectively; (b) 
consulting and auditing services under contracts below $100,000 equivalent, in the case 
of consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent, in the case of individual consultants; (c) 
operating costs; (d) training; and (e) Grants, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the implementation of a 
strategy designed to accelerate sustainable development and reduce poverty through the 
strengthening of governance and transparency in the management of mineral resources, 
with special emphasis on small-scale and artisanal mining. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Strengthening Transparency and Governance in Mining
1. 
Consolidation of the legal and regulatory framework governing mining through: 
(a) publication of regulations still outstanding; (b) review of the existing framework to 
take account of the Borrower’s decentralization policy; and (c) review of existing 
regulations to ensure their consistency with the Borrower’s policies with regard to 
gemstones, including equal opportunity in access to resources, trade liberalization and 
export promotion. 
2. 
Provision of support for the decentralized management of mineral resources, 
including establishment of mining administration offices close to exploitation sites in 
pilot regions to ensure collection of local taxes on sales of mining products, supervision 
of mining sector activities and environmental management. 
3. 
Establishment of a national program for the certification and quality control of 
gemstones, including creation of a one-stop shop for gemstone exports and a gemstone 
exchange, establishment of a gemology institute to promote the export of cut stones, 
training of personnel in gemstone evaluation techniques and development of partnerships 
with international gemstone evaluation services and laboratories, and academic 
institutions. 
4. 
Provision of support to strengthen private sector associations, including support 
for the process of establishment of provincial mining councils, assessment of the status of 
existing private sector organizations, and assistance as required in view of the 
institutional strengthening of such organizations. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Part B
:
Key Institutional Reforms for Decentralized Management of Mineral Resources
1. 
Institutional adjustment and capacity building of decentralized public mining 
institutions, including extension of access to cadastre information to the municipal level 
to facilitate effective exchanges of information on the issuance and availability of mining 
titles, streamlining of tax collection, establishment of provincial-level environmental 
units to supervise environmental management at the provincial level, carrying out of 
studies on mining-related social and environmental issues to build capacity and define 
sector strategy, and implementation of decentralized management of mineral resources on 
a
pilot basis in selected communes. 
2. 
Design and implementation of a communication campaign designed to raise 
awareness amongst local communities about mining sector reform. 
3. 
Design and implementation of a training program designed to enhance human 
resources capacity and improve mineral resources governance, including on-the-job 
training, workshops, basic and specialized training courses to be provided by both public 
and private institutions, short-term internships and overseas training courses, and 
participation in international conferences and seminars. 
4. 
Creation of an information system to facilitate communication among all mining 
sector stakeholders, both public and private. 
Part C
:
Promoting Private Investment and Value-Added in the Sector
1. 
Creation of a Mining Sector Promotion Agency to improve the Borrower’s 
capacity to attract private sector investment through allocation of resources for 
promotional programs and provision of Grants for the benefit of enterprises and 
individuals engaged in artisanal and small-scale mining to support their management, 
production, marketing and commercialization activities. 
2. 
Provision of basic and reliable geo-scientific information needed to facilitate 
private sector promotion in the mining sector and support socio-economic development 
planning, including: (a) carrying out of airborne geophysical surveys in key areas where 
geological mapping is planned, and purchase and installation of specialized software and 
training of counterparts in the collection and processing of airborne data; and (b) 
production of geological and geo-chemical maps and other scientific materials, including 
mineral resources and environmental management data collection in key parts of the 
Borrower’s territory, and provision of training in modern field and desk techniques and 
up-to-date geological concepts. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
Development of a Mineral Resources Governance Database to collect, digitize 
and store relevant geo-scientific data to be disseminated to clients. 
Part D
:
Project Coordination and Management
Provision of advisory services and other material support to maintain UCPM to 
be responsible for the management, and monitoring and evaluation, of the Project.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, airborne geophysical 
surveys under Part C.2 (a) of the Project and goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
other than airborne geophysical surveys under Part C.2 (a) of the Project, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines; provided, however, that: (a) all bids shall be in one envelope 
which shall be opened in public; (b) points systems will not be used for bid evaluation for 
works; (c) contracts awards shall be announced to all bidders; (d) any bidder shall be 
given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (e) bid 
evaluation and bidder qualification criteria shall clearly be specified in bidding 
Page  20
-
19
-
documents and not applied arbitrarily; (f) eligible firms shall not be precluded from 
participation; (g) no preference margin shall be granted to domestic contractors and 
suppliers; (h) the award shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with 
pre-determined and transparent methods; (i) bid evaluation reports shall clearly state the 
reasons for rejection of any non-responsive bid; and (j) prior to issuing the first call for 
bids, draft standard bidding documents shall have been prepared and submitted to the 
Association, and found acceptable. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works other than airborne geophysical surveys under Part C.2 (a) of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required under Subprojects shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association, and specified in the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
5. Direct 
Contracting
Specialized instruments required for the proposed gemology institute under Part 
A.3 of the Project, which are of a proprietary nature, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines
.
Page  21
-
20
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Page  22
-
21
-
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services required for review of the regulatory framework, establishment of 
BAMs, training of personnel, and institutional adjustment and capacity building, under 
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and B.1, respectively, of the Project, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks that represent a natural continuation of previous work carried 
out under the Project Preparation Advance, which are estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Commercial 
Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Subprojects may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Association, and specified in the 
Project Implementation Plan. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection
 of
all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and/or maintain: 
(a) 
a Steering Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for overall 
supervision and general oversight of implementation of the Project, including review of 
progress reports and financial statements, and approval of annual budgets and work plans, 
and financial audits; 
(b) 
an Executive Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to facilitate the regular flow of 
information and provide a channel of communication among key stakeholders engaged in 
the Project, and to report from time to time to the Steering Committee; and 
(c)  
a 
Unité de Coordination du Projet Minier
,
whose mandate, terms of 
reference and composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for 
day-to-day execution of the Project, including management of procurement and 
disbursement activities, consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, preparation 
and production of annual progress reports and financial statements, and monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall take steps to ensure that: 
(a) 
UCPM shall be headed by a Project coordinator, who shall be assisted by 
a
deputy Project coordinator, a chief accountant, an accountant, a procurement specialist, 
and other suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers; and 
 (b) 
the positions of Project coordinator, deputy Project coordinator, chief 
accountant, accountant and procurement specialist referred to in this paragraph shall be 
kept filled at all times by a person having qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association. 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall prepare and transmit to the Association for 
comments, and thereafter adopt in form and substance acceptable to the Association a 
Project Implementation Plan, giving details of all operational guidelines and procedures 
as shall have been agreed with the Association for the implementation, monitoring and 
supervision of the Project, including: 
Page  25
-
24
-
(i) 
performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation guidelines, 
and environmental assessment methodology; 
(ii) 
administrative, accounting and financial procedures,  
(iii) 
procurement and disbursement guidelines;  
(iv) 
guidelines and procedures for preparation, appraisal and 
environmental screening of Subproject proposals, and approval 
of Subprojects, and criteria for the selection of Beneficiaries;  
(v) 
model forms of Grant Agreements; and 
(vi) 
full details of the EMP. 
 (b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures 
set out in the Project Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, 
in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 2005, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Association and other interested parties, a midterm review of the 
Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project and the Program, and the performance by the Borrower of its 
obligations under this Agreement, including the progress achieved by the Borrower under 
the Project and the Program, having regard to the monitoring indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association. 
 
(b) 
Not later than one month prior to the review, the Borrower
 
shall furnish to 
the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project and status of the Program, and giving 
details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review. 
 
(c) 
Following the review, the Borrower
 
undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and the Program, or to implement 
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of 
the objectives of the Project. 
5. 
The Borrower shall take steps to: 
Page  26
-
25
-
(a) 
comply with and implement the EMP, in accordance with the guidelines, 
timetable and other specifications set forth in the EMP; and 
 
(b) 
submit regular reports on compliance with the EMP, giving details of 
measures taken in furtherance of the EMP, conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to 
interfere with the smooth implementation of the EMP, and remedial measures taken or 
required to be taken to address such conditions. 
6. 
Further to Section 3.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to Category (6) of the table in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions: 
 
(a) 
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to provide Grants to 
finance Subprojects, in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the 
Project Implementation Plan; 
 
(b) 
no Grant shall be made to finance a Subproject unless the Subproject is 
designed to provide training and support services for the benefit of enterprises and 
individuals engaged, or otherwise interested, in artisanal and small-scale mining, or to meet 
the business needs of such enterprises and individuals; 
 
(c) 
every Subproject proposal shall be classified according to environmental 
impact category, and subjected as necessary to environmental impact analysis, to ensure 
that: (i) it is fully consistent with environmental appraisal criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Plan; and (ii) where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to minimize 
adverse effects of the proposed Subproject are identified and incorporated in the Subproject 
design; 
 
(d) 
Grants shall be provided for the benefit of eligible Beneficiaries, and 
according to a cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the Project Implementation Plan; provided, however, that:  
(i) 
the proceeds of a Grant shall not be used to finance taxes or duties 
levied on or in respect of eligible expenditures relating to a 
Subproject, or any part thereof;  
(ii) 
the amount of each Grant shall be not more than $10,000 
equivalent; and 
Page  27
-
26
-
(iii) 
the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of any Subproject, 
measured both in cash and/or in kind, shall be not less than 50 
percent of the total cost of the Subproject;  
 
(e)  
the first ten Subprojects to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be subject to the prior review and approval of the Association; 
 
(f) 
goods, works and services required for the purposes of financing 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, and set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; and 
 
(g) 
for purposes of each Grant, an agreement (hereinafter referred to as Grant 
Agreement) shall be concluded with the Beneficiary in the form of the model provided in 
the Project Implementation Plan, setting forth the respective obligations of the parties 
thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement procedures, the 
amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of the Subproject, and the additional 
terms and conditions specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
,
as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, 
and
 to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 (c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of this Annex, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,200,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  29
-
28
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  30
-
29
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Additional Terms and Conditions of Grant Agreements 
 
Each Grant Agreement shall include the following terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association: 
1. 
The Beneficiary shall be required to carry out and operate the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with sound technical, administrative and 
financial practices, and with due regard to appropriate environmental and public health 
considerations. 
2. 
The Beneficiary shall have the obligation to ensure at all times that: (a) goods, 
works and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) such 
goods, works and consultants' services shall be used exclusively for implementing the 
Subproject, and achieving the objectives of the Project; and (c) upon completion of the 
Subproject, such Subproject shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the 
operation and maintenance plan agreed upon with the Beneficiary. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works and 
services included in the Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant records and 
documents, and obtain any report in connection therewith, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall reasonably request. 
4. 
The Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other satisfactory provision for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate environmental and/or public health practices. 
5. 
The Borrower shall have the right to obtain all such information as the Borrower 
and Association shall reasonably request relating to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of each Beneficiary, and the benefits derived from the Subproject. 
6. 
The right of any Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Credit, or any part 
thereof, shall be promptly suspended upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform any of 
its respective obligations under the Grant Agreement. 
 
