Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3754-1-MAG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For Mineral Resources Governance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2007
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3754-1-MAG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated June 5, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to five 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MPCU in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01 
The Government of Norway Grant Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by December 31, 2007 or the EITI TF Grant Agreement shall have 
failed to become effective by June 30, 2008; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement; and 
4.02 
The right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds under the Government of 
Norway Grant Agreement or EITI TF Grant Agreement shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
said agreements; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and 
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
The Extractive Industries Coordination Unit has been established with 
form and functions satisfactory to the Association and the Extractive 
Industries Coordinator has been recruited under terms, conditions and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Plan has been updated in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and 
(
c
)
The Recipient has employed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
5.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time in 
charge of finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
B.P. 61 
Antananarivo 101 
Madagascar 
Cable address:    
Facsimile: 
MFB 
 
 
(261) 20 22 34530 
Antananarivo 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC POF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
 
       /s/ Benjamin Andriamparany Radavidson 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Robert 
R. 
Blake 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in the further definition and 
implementation of a strategy designed to accelerate sustainable development and reduce 
poverty through the strengthening of governance and transparency in the management of 
mineral resources. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Strengthening Transparency and Governance in Mining
1. 
Support to the formulation of an updated extractive industries policy and 
strategy, based on the MAP, including regional and central-level authorities, through the 
provision of consultants
’
services. 
2. 
Assistance in the modernization of the extractive industries sector regulatory 
framework, including: (a) a revision/reformulation of the hydrocarbons law and 
regulations; (b) adjustments to the mining legal and regulatory framework; and (c) the 
subsequent dissemination of information, all through the provision of technical 
assistance. 
3. 
Support to improved transparency of the Recipient’s extractive industries 
institutions, including but not limited to: (a) restructuring and strengthening OMNIS, 
better defining and separating the agency’s present functions as a regulator and operator 
in the upstream hydrocarbons sector and by transferring upstream hydrocarbons 
regulatory functions to a regulatory agency/entity under the MdE; and (b) transferring the 
non-contracts related part of OMNIS mining, oil and gas-related geo-information data to 
the National Geological Survey; all through the provision of consultant services. 
4. 
Support to the removal of barriers to investments by improving coordination 
among ministries, streamlining procedures and strengthening capacities, all through the 
provision of consultant services. 
Part B
:
Key Institutional Reforms for Decentralized Management of Mineral Resources
Assistance to MdM in the implementation of the MAP, including:  
Page  8
-
7
-
1. 
Support to sustainable regional development in large-scale mining areas 
including: (a) in Anosy, supporting the establishment and operation of a Local 
Coordination Committee and of a Local Development Fund, as well as the monitoring 
and update of Local Development Plans; (b) in Ambatovy, Tulear and/or other regions: 
supporting the establishment of a Dynamic Natural Resources Management Platform, of 
a
Local Coordination Committee, and of a Local Development Fund; capacity building at 
the municipal and regional levels; carrying out consultative and participatory processes 
and preparation of a Local Development Plan, all through the provision of works, goods 
and services. 
2. 
Support to improved management of environmental and social issues in the 
mining sector and proper coordination with the management of protected areas, including 
by: (a) strengthening the capacity of the Inter-ministerial Mines-Forests Committee, of 
the Mining Environmental Units and of a Mining Inspectorate; (b) supporting the 
recommendations of the WWF/WB Alliance in the mapping and prioritization of areas to 
be protected from mining and areas that may pose potential land use conflicts, and in the 
development and implementation of remedial action plans; and (c) improving 
coordination among relevant mining and environmental agencies, including ONE and 
ANGAP, all through the provision of works, goods and services. 
3. 
Support to: (a) the establishment of mechanisms to monitor and evaluate small-
scale mining practices; (b) carrying out sensitization and education campaigns to 
familiarize small-scale miners with applicable legal and regulatory texts and procedures; 
(c) provision of technical assistance and capacity building to decentralized MM entities, 
regional and local authorities and CBOs, on management and integration to local 
development of artisanal and small-scale mining activities and resources; (d) supporting 
increased formalization and legalization of the small-scale mining sector, as well as 
registration services and capacity building for rapid responses to mining rush situations; 
(e) supporting capacity building and institutional strengthening of IGM and the 
development of regional training facilities; all through the provision of works, goods and 
services. 
4. 
Support to the set-up of regulatory and financial mechanisms to ensure the long-
term sustainability of extractive industries institutions and of their functions, all through 
the provision of works, goods and services. 
Part C
:
Promoting Private Investment and Value-Added in the Sector
1. 
Support to the development of a National Geological Survey, responsible to 
generate and collect, store and maintain, process and disseminate geo-scientific 
information for multi-sector use and promotion of mining, hydrocarbons and societal 
development as well as environmental and social protection, through the provision of 
works, goods and services. 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
Support to carry out synthesis studies and to the broad dissemination of geo-
scientific information, through the provision of services. 
Part D
:
Project Coordination and Management
Provision of advisory services and other material support to maintain MPCU to 
be responsible for the management, monitoring and evaluation, of the Project, as well as 
to the Extractive Industries Coordination Unit. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure full compliance with the provision of Schedule 4.1 of 
the Original Agreement with respect to the proper operating and staffing of 
MPCU and the
 
Extractive Industries Coordination Unit. 
2. 
The recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in 
the Project Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof. 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure proper cooperation among all entities involved in the 
extractive industries sector as well as with donors, in particular ensure proper 
coordination with parallel initiatives such as the assistance provided by the 
Government of Norway, the EITI TF and others as regards Part A.2 of the Project 
and with the assistance provided by the Government of Norway as regards Part 
A.3 of the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the EMP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall 
not amend or waive any provision of the EMP. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, no later than December 31 2007, prepare environmental 
guidelines satisfactory to the Association, setting forth guidelines for 
environmental management of the mining sector and shall thereafter implement 
such guidelines in the management of the mining sector. 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
3. 
The Recipient shall, no later than September 2009, carry out an audit under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association to review sector environmental 
management capacity and achievements. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) 
No later than 18 months after the date of effectiveness, updated 
hydrocarbons law and regulations, also addressing 
environmental concerns have been prepared in line with of 
international practice, and a draft law has been submitted to the 
Parliament. 
(ii) 
No later than 18 months after the date of effectiveness, the fiscal 
framework for mining, including large scale investments, has 
been reviewed to include adjustments to optimize fiscal 
revenues, while maintaining a competitive edge to investments, 
and a draft law has been submitted to the Parliament. 
(iii) 
No later than 18 months after the date of effectiveness, 
methodologies to control artisanal and small scale mining rushes 
and to manage conflicts between artisanal and small scale 
mining activities and protected areas have been developed and 
are ready for implementation at central and decentralized level. 
(iv) 
Within 24 months from the date of effectiveness, the National 
Geological Survey and the integrated sector data bank and 
information systems have been established and are operative. 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
(v) 
No later than by December 2009, financial mechanisms for long-
term sustainability of mining institutions have been established 
and are operative. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding  
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  Single Source Selection 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
(a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; 
(c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for individual consultants’ 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (e) all contracts 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
procured on a single source basis. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, 
audits and 
consultants’ 
services for the 
Project 
 
5,300,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures 
and 85% of Local Expenditures 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 5,300,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
No later than December 31, 2008, the Borrower shall have adopted a plan with 
specific time based measures for the restructuring of OMNIS. 
B. 
The Recipient shall deposit into the Project Account (as such term is defined in 
the Original Financing Agreement) sufficient resources to provide counterpart 
funding in connection with the Financing. 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 1 and December 1 
 
commencing June 1, 2017 to and including 
December 1, 2026; 
1% 
commencing June 1, 2027 to and including 
December 1, 2046. 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“ANGAP” means 
Agence Nationale de Gestion des Aires Prot
égées
,
the 
Recipient’s agency in charge of the management of protected areas. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4. 
“CBO” means a community based organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Recipient. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006, as may be amended from time to 
time by the Association. 
6. 
“Dynamic Natural Resources Management Platform” means a methodology 
and a tool integrating multi-sectoral information in a geographic information 
system for the purpose of planning, coordinating and monitoring local 
economic development activities, including Local Development Plans, to be 
established at the local level in large scale mining regions. 
7. 
EMP” means the environmental management plan, dated March 31 2007, 
giving details of measures appropriate or required to manage potential 
environmental risks and mitigate adverse impacts associated with the Project, 
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements 
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on 
compliance with, the EMP. 
8. 
“EITI TF Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into by the 
Recipient for the purpose of a $300,000 grant in support of activities in the 
extractive industries in Madagascar. 
9. 
“Extractive Industries Coordination Unit” means 
Unité de Coordination des 
Industries Extractives
,
the unit responsible for the coordination of various 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
donors funded activities in the extractive industries sector, to be established 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
11. 
“Government of Norway Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered by the Recipient for the purpose of a $5,000,000 grant in support of 
activities in the extractive industries in Madagascar.  
12. “IGM” 
means 
Institut de Gemmologie de Madagascar
,
the Recipient’s 
gemological institute attached to MdM. 
13. 
“Inter-ministerial Mines-Forests Committee” means the Committee 
established pursuant to 
arrêté interministériel 3740/2004 du 16 avril 2004
.
14. 
“Local Coordination Committee” means a committee to be established at the 
local level in large scale mining regions. 
15. 
“Local Development Fund” means a fund to be established under the Project 
in large scale mining regions, for the purpose of collecting fiscal revenues 
generated by mining activities, as defined under the 2005 mining law, or 
other funds to be transferred to local authorities and to be applied to local 
economic development. 
16. 
“Local Development Plans” means a plan prepared in a participative manner 
for the purpose of integrating, coordinating and promoting/facilitating local 
economic development activities in large scale mining regions. 
17. 
“MAP” means Madagascar Action Plan, the Recipient’s strategy for poverty 
reduction adopted in 2006. 
18. “MdE” 
means
 Ministère de l’Energie 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy. 
19. “MdM” 
means 
Ministère des Mines
,
the Recipient’s Ministry of Mines. 
20. 
“Mining Environmental Units” (
Cellules Environnementales Minières
)
means the units within MdM in charge of monitoring and addressing 
environmental issues as established. 
Page  19
-
18 -
 
21. 
“Mining Inspectorate” means the inspectorate to be legally established, in 
form and with functions satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for 
monitoring the environmental, social and technical performance of mining 
operators 
vis-
à-vis
 the regulations. 
22. 
“MPCU” means the mining project coordination unit, established under the 
initial Project under conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. 
23. 
“National Geological Survey” means an entity to provide regional and 
reliable geo-scientific information needed to facilitate private sector 
promotion in the mining sector and support socio-economic development 
planning. 
24. “OMNIS” 
means 
Office 
des 
Mines Nationales et des Industries Stratégiques
,
the Recipient’s bureau established and operating pursuant to Décret 99/697 
of October 26 1999, “
 
portant statuts de l’OMNIS 
”, Law 99/003 of March 
25 1999, “portant changement de dénomination de l’OMNIS”, and Decree 
2004/273 of January 18, 2004 “plaçant OMNIS sous tutelle du Ministère de 
l’Energie et des Mines”. 
25. “ONE” 
means 
Office National de l’Environnement
,
the Recipient’s National 
Environmental Agency. 
26. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement 
for a Mineral Resources Governance Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated June 23, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No 3754). 
27. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
28. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006, as the same may be amended from time to time by the 
Association. 
29. 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
30. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 2, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs.
 
