Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USV! ONLY
Report No. 6146-STP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
flay 29, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture D
This document bas a resticted ditibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thewr official duties Its contents may na* othrise be disdosed without Wodd Bank authorzation.



CURRENCIES
Currency unit         : Dobra (Db)
1985   1986   1987 a/
Average exchange rate:  US$1.00 = Db       40     36     58
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFVP      Association Frangaise des Volontaires du Progres (French
National Association of Volunteers for Progress)
BADEA     Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de l'Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
BNSTP     Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe (National Bank of Sao
Tome and Principe)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (Central Fund for
Economic Cooperation, France)
ECOMEX    Empresa de Comercio Externo (Foreign Trade Organization)
ECOMIN    Empresa de Comercio Interno (Internal Trade Organization)
EEA       Empresa Estatal Agro-Pecuaria (State Enterprise for
Agriculture and Livestock)
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Aid and Cooperation
Fund, France)
ICE       Instituto de Cooperacao Economica (Portuguese Institute for
Economic Cooperation)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRCC      Institute de la Recherche du Cafe et du Cacao (Coffee and
Cocoa Research Institute)
MADR      Ministerio de Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural (Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development)
MP        Ministerio do Plano e Comercio Interno (Ministry of Planning
and Domestic Trade)
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
POTO      EstaCao Experimental Agronomica (Agricultural Experimental
Station of POTO)
PSU       Project Support Unit
STP       Sao Tome and Principe
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WFP       World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
a/   Projected annual average.



TOR OFFIUCL USE ONLY
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMNNTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE .......................       iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY ....... . ..**    ..................*..     v
I*  BACKGROUND                                                         I 1
A.   Introduction .................*..... * ******.*,.            1
B.   The Economy ......................................           I
C.   Agriculture Sector Issues and Strategy ..............        3
II.  THE COCOA SUBSECTOR .....................                         4
A.   Historical Context        4...............................   4
B.   Production Environment ...... ....... .................      5
C.  Main Institutions .*........                                  6
D.   Cocoa Subsector Strategy        ............................  7
E.   Rationale for Bank Involvement ......................        7
III. THE PROJECT                                                       7
A.   Project Objectives and Scope ...n.......*.........           7
B.   Summary Description ..................... ..... .....        8
C.   Detailed Features       9...............................*.   9
1.  Plantation Development ......    ....................    9
2. Support to the Agriculture Sector with Emphasis
on the Cocoa and Food Crop Subsectors ......s..        13
D.   Project Costs and Financing        .........................  18
E.   Accounts and Audits ............... ..............          20
F.   Procurement and Disbursements        .......................  21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission undertaken in
September/October 1985 by a team consisting of MW. Falloux, Ms. Kawabata,
Ms. Morin and Mrs. Mattson (Bank staff), and on the findings of a
subsequent mission carried out in November 1986 by Ms. Kavabata, to
reassess the viability of the project in the context of macroeconomic
measures to be taken by Government and to update project information. The
report was prepared by Ms. Kawabata with the assistance of Mrs. Vali'i1. i;
data processing, edited by Mrs. Layton and Mrs. Reza, and typed by Ms de
Paula Carvalho.
This document ha a stricd distributin and may be used by rcipents only in the peformane
of thei officia dute. Its contens may not otherwis be dcscked without Word Bank authorizaon.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
6.   Implementation and Organization ....................        23
1.  Preparatory Activities ........................         23
2.  Project Management and Coordination ............        23
3.  Nanagement of Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs .....        24
4.  Interim Review ..........                               25
R.   Production. Markets and Prices       .....................  25
I.  Financial Results ..       .............................     26
J.   EconGmic and Social Benefits and Risks .............        30
IV.  AGRZMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION ...................         32
ASN
1        Typical Organization Chart for a State Enterprise for
Agriculture and Livestock (EEA)
2-1      Historical Events
2-2       Production Constraints
2-3      Main Iustitutions
3-1      Bela Vista EEA
3-2      Uba Budo ERA
3-3      Main Features of Management Contracts
3-4      Technical Production Parameters
3-5      Terms of Roderenee for Consultancy Services and Studies
3-6      Project Costs Summary
3-7      Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursement
3-8      Organizational Arrangements for Project Support
3-9       Cocoa Prices
3-10     Bela Vista Projected Income Statements and Cash Flow
3-11     Uba Budo Projected Income Statements and Cash Flow
3-12     Government Cash Flow
MAP: IBRD 19574.



- iii -
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Code No.
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Country
Al.  Analysis of the World Cocoa Market, by Takamase
Akiyama and Ronald C. Duncan, World Bank Staff
Commodity Working Papcrrs No. 8, June 1982.                  EPDCS
A2.  Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe,
Recent Economic Developments, Inernational Monetary
Fund; October 30, 1984.                                    228.955
A3.  La Recherche Agronomique A Sao Tome et Principe,
Rapport de Mission, by Gora Beye; 9-16 Avril 1985.         228.956
A4.  Line of Credit for Economic Rehobilitation and
Modernization; April 17, 1985.                          P-4028-STP
AS. Sao Tomf et Principe: Revue du Secteur Agricole,
STP - Ag. Sector, by C. Agel; August 1985.             B/R-Oct. 85
A6.  Sao Tome and Principe:  Issues and Options in the
Energy Sector, UNDP/World Bank; October 1985.              229.381
A7.  Table Ronde des Partenaires du D4veloppement,
Consultative Group, Vol. 1 & 2, Ministere de la            228.957
Coop4ration; D6cembre 1985.                                  (1+2)
A8.  Cocoa Production: Present Constraints and Priorities
for Research, by R.A. Lass and GAR Wood, Ed., World
Bank Technical Paper No. 39; 1985.    1                      PUBSU
A9.  Sao Tome et Principe:  Projet de DAveloppement des
Cultures Vivriares et Frutieres (Prepare par FAO pour
BADEA); 7 Octobre 1986.                                     D00795
A10. Sao Tome and Principe: Structural Adjustment Credit -
President's Report, World Bank; May 1987.                  (Corr.)
All. Projet de Developr-ment des Olagineux, FED, undated.    228.958
B. Selected Reports on the Project
B1. Sao Tome et Principe: Rapport d'Identification
GUndrale 42/84 GV-STP, FAO; 3 Mai 1984.                    228.959
B2.  Demonstracoes da PosiCao Financeira Pro Forma,
Price Waterhouse; December 31, 1984.                       228.960
B3.  Oferta Tecnica, Price Waterhouse; December 1984.           228.961
B4.  Sao Tome y Principe:  Proyecto de Rehabilitacion del
Cacao - Mision de Preparacion, FAO; February 4, 1985.    226.457
B5.  Mission pour l'Evaluation de la Pourriture Brune
des Cabosses du Cacaoyer et pour la Connaissance
de l'Evolution de lInfection au Champ a Sao Tome,
by G. Blaha; 6 May-5 June 1985.                            228.962
B6.  Mission d'Appui pour l'Estimation des Besoins en
Engrais, by P. Jadin; 4 June-3 July 1985.                  228.963



- iv -
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE (continued)
Code No.
B7.  Relatorio Contendo  ecomendaCoes sobre Controles
Internos e Procedim%atos Contabeis, Price Waterhouse;
June 1985.                                                 228.964
B8.  Relatorio da Niasao, Segmento FormaCAo Profissional,
by Magalhaes; July 1985.                                   228.965
B9.  Diario da Republica, S. Tome e Principe, ResoluCao
N°1/85, Numero 10; 5 de Setembro de 1985.                   D00796
BlO. Programme de Recherche en Matiere de Cacaoculture pour
le Court, le Moyen et le Long Terme en Republique
Democratique de Sao Tome et Principe, Status de POTO,
IRCC; September 1985.                                      228.966
Bl. Document Technique, by F. Falloux; November 1985.          228.967
B12. Relatorio da Deslocacao Efectuada A Republica
Democ-atica de Sao Tome and Principe, Missao de
Avaliasao, Instituto Universitario de Tras-os-Montes
e Alto Douro, Portugal by Antonio Machado; December
1985.                                                      228.968
B13. Methodologie et Note Explicative de la Carte des
Potentialit6s Agricoles by BDPA; 1985.                      D00797
B14. Projet de R6habilitation de la Recherche Cacaoyere sur   228.969
la Station Agronomique de POTO, IRCC; March 1986.            (1+2)
B15. Complemento ao Relatorio da Deslocacao Efectuada a
R.D. de S. Tome e Principe, by Alvaro Sousa;
April 1986.                                                 D00798
B16. Project Uba Budo by SOCFINCO, France - B.D.P.A.;
May-July 1986.                                              D00799
B17. Reabilitacao da EEA Bela Vista, R.D. de S. Tome e
Principe; Fase Preliminar do Contrato de Gestao
by SCFMI; Nay 1986.                                         D00800
B18. Projet Authorization: Trilateral Agricultural
Training, USAID; September 9, 1986.                         D00801
B19. Diario da Republica, S. Tome e Principe, Resolucao
N°10/86 (Agricultura de ExportaCao Alimentar e
Pecuaria); Numero 19; 24 de Outubro de 1986.                D00802
B20. Projet de Recherche d'Accompagnement de la
Cacaoculture en R6publique de S. Tome et Principe,
by CCCE; 29 Octobre 1986.                                   bt.O803
B21. Diagnostic Composante Industrielle Empresa Bela Vista,
by Vincent, undated.                                       228.970
B22. Diagnostic Composante Industrielle Empresa Uba Budo,
by Vincent, undated.                                       228.971
B23. Contract and Bidding Documents of Sociedade Comercial,
by Francisco Mantero, undated.                             228.972
B24. Contract and Bidding Documents of SOCFINCO/JNEPA,
undated.                                                   228.973
B25. Recomendacoes para a Continuagao das Accoes do PRPC,
by Champeroux, IRCC, undated.                              228.974
B26. WFP, Assisted Project Sao Tome and Principe 2757,
Rehabilitation of Cocoa Production, Technical Report,
March 16, 1987.                                            228.975
B27. Sistema de Apuracao de Custos, Price Waterhouse,
undated.                                                   228.976



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower,           The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
Beneficiaries:       The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development; Bela
Vista and Uba Budo State Enterprises; smallholders.
Credit Amount:      SDR 6.1 million (US$7.9 million equivalent).
Financing Terms:    Standard IDA terms.
Cofinancing:        Arab Bank for Economic  Development in  Africa (BADEA),
International Fund for Agricultural Developm nt (IFAD),
Central Fund for Economic Corporation (CCCE, France),
Organization of Petrolcum Exporting Countries Fund
(OPEC), U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID) and Portuguese Institute for Economic
Cooperation (ICE), World Food Programme (WFP), and Aid
and Cooperation Fund (FAC, France) and French National
Association of Volunteers for Progress (AFVP).
Project
Description:        The project would assist the Government in its efforts
to achieve quick economic recovery through the
increased production of cocoa and in reaching its
longer term objectives for the development of the
agriculture sector as a whole.
To achieve these objectives, the project would, first,
increase production and improve workers' social
conditions in two cocoa plantations (Bela Vista and Uba
Budo), and, second, reinforce STP's agriculture sector
with emphasis on (i) the cocoa subsector by
facilitating future financing of other plantations
presently not receiving external assistance, and
providing technical support and training; (ii) the food
crop subsector by creating applied research capacities;
(iii) supporting smallholders development; and (iv)
addressing other issues through studies and consulting
services. This latter element would assist the
Government in formulating and implementing its
policies, in diversifying its agricultural base, and in
shifting the status of its state enterprises to that of
mixed-economy enterpris,,.



- vi -
Estimated Costs (US$ million):
% of Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Cost
1. Plantation Devel.pn_ent
(a) Cocoa Production
(i)  Bela Vista                        0.5       4.5        5.0       26
(ii)  Uba Budo                          0.6        6.3       6.9       36
(b) Labor Productivity
(i)  Bela Vista                        0.4       0.6        1.0        5
(ii)  Uba Budo    1                     0.3        0.7       1.0        5
2. Support to the Agriculture Sector
(a)  Cocoa Technical Support                 0.0       1.1       1.1         6
(b)  Agricultural Training                   0.1       0.9       1.0         5
(c)  Food Crop Development                   0.1       0.6       0.7         4
(d)  Support to Other EREAs                  0.1       0.6       0.7         4
(e)  Smallholders                            0.1       0.5       0.6         3
(f)  Agricultural Studies and PSU            0.0       1.1       1.1         6
Total Baseline Ccots                  2.2       16.9      19.1      100
Physical Contingencies                    0.2       1.3       1.5
Price Contingencies                       0.4       0.8       1.2
Total Project Costs                    2.1.
Financing Plan (US$ million):
Food
MuAID  Support to PAC
and    Laborers  and         Total
IDA  BADA   IFAD    CCCE   OPEC  Portugal   WFP       AFVP  GOVT. Costs
1. .a.tion De _v_l
Be-la Vista
(a) Production          2,3   1.4      -       -      1.1                       -   0.8    5.6
(b) Food crops           -     -      0.05     ^       -       -       -       0.1     -    0.1
(c) social
Infrastructure       -    0.4     -       -        -             0.3        -   0.3    1.0
Uba Budo
(a) Production          3.8   3.6                      -                        -   0.4    7.7
(b) Food crops           -     -      0.05     -       -       -              0.1      -    0.1
(c) Social
Infrastructure       -    0.4     -       -        -       -     0.3        -   0.3    1.0
2. SuDDort to the Ag. Sector
(2.     Coeo TesSmlea1 Sup.  0.3 e  -         1.0      -       -       -       0.1  0.1    1.5
(b) Agr. Training       0.2    -       -       -              0.9      -               -    1.1
(c) Food Crop tow.                    0.8              -                               -    0.9
(d) Sup. to Other ERAs    0.5   0.2    -       -       -       -       -        -      -    0.8
te) Swalholders                      0.7                                                    0.7
(f) Agr. Studies & PSU    0.8    -    0.3      -      - -                       -   0.2    1.3
Total Financing    ,2    L      "2      LO       L       W      £a         W    2    &



- vii -
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
IDA Fiscal Year
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
Annual            1.8     0.5     0.9      1.2     1.1     1.1      0.9    0.4
Cumulative       1.8      2.3     3.2     4.4      5.3     6.6      7.5    7.9
Benefits
and Pisks:     The immediate benefit of the project would be an increase In
foreign exchange revenues from cocoa sales. There would be
social benefits for some 1,500 workers whose living
conditions would improve because of the project. The
agriculture sector would benefit from project assistance
both to plantations and amallholders, technical support for
cocoa and food crop, training activities and studies.
Equally important are the benefits that the project would
bring in the medium- to long-term by laying the basis for a
profitable cocoa industry as part of a well-diversified
agriculture sector.
There are no unusual economic or technical risks under the
project. The project's economic viabllity ts moderately
sensitive to a possible drop in cocoa prices, or to
Increases in production costs. Some risk of lower than
expected yields is involved with the planting of new
high-yielding hybrids. To reduce this risk, replanting
would be carefully phased and closely monitored by a
scientific institution specializing in cocoa. The presence
of foreign management firms would ensure the timly
application of incentives in the two plantations and
minimize this risk.
Economic Rate
of Return:     The estimated overall Economic Rate of Return for the
project is about 211.
Mhp: IBRD 19574.



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.        The Government of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and
Principe (STP) has requested IDA'3 assistance to finance a cocoa
rehabilitation project which would support the revival of the cocoa
industry, start the process of reforming agricultural state enterprises,
and begin to diversify the agriculture sector. Project cofinancing has
been arranged with the Arab Bank for Economic Development of Africa
("Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de 1'Afrique" - BADEA), the
Central Fund for Economic Cooperation ("Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique" - CCCE, France), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries Fund (OPEC), the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)/Portuguese
Institute for Economic Cooperation (ICE), the World Food Programme (WFP),
and the Aid and Cooperation Fund ("Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration" - FAC,
France) jointly with the French National Association of Volunteers for
Progress ("Association Francaise des Volontaires du Progr6s" - AFVP).
2.        The project was identified by the Government and the Bank during
an economic mission in January 1984. It was prepared by the Cooperative
Program of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO/CP) after a visit to
Sao Tome in October 1984. The preparation report is in the Project File
(No. 226.457). Preparation was completed by .he Bank, and the project was
appraised in September/October 1985 with the participation of
representatives of CCCE and USAID/ICE. Due to a rapid deterioration of
STP's economy, project processing was suspended until a review of the
macroeconomic situation was carried out in November 1986. The Government
agreed then to take measures that would restore the profitability of the
cocoa sector, and it was agreed that the Project would be processed
simultaneously with a Structural Adjustment Credit. Negotiations were held
from 13 to 15 May, 1987.
B. The Economy
3.        General.  The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
consists of two islands located in the Gulf of Guinea, about 300 km west of
Gabon, covering a total area of 1,000 km2. The islands were discov2red in
the late 15th century and colonized by the Portuguese until independence in
1975. The island of Sao Tome (857 km2) (Map IBRD 19574) concentrates 95%
of the total population, estimated at 100,000 in 1981. The population is
fairly urbanized (39%) and encompasses three main groups: indigenous Sao
Tomeans (85%), Cape Verdeans and Angolans (15%). The country is endowed



- 2 -
with good agricultural resources, such as soils and microclimates suitable
for the cultivation of almost all tropical products. Arable land totals
40,000 ha and a significant unexploited potential exists in fisheries and
forestry. The microclimates make production conditions widely different
from one area to another even within a plantation. Rainfall varies from
990 mm in the northeast of Sao Tome to 7,000 mm in the southeast.
4.        A little over a decade after independence, the country faces its
worst economuic and financial crisis. Cocoa production, which had peaked at
about 36,000 tons in 1920, stood at an estimated 10,000 tons a year in
1975. Production further declined to 6,000 tons in 1980 and 4,000 tons in
1986. Cocoa represents 90% of export revenues, and GDP per capita declined
by an estimated 30% in real terms. Both the Go;arnment deficit and the
overall deficit of the balance of payments have averaged over 40% of GDP
during the 1982-86 period. The debt service ratio increased from 6% in
1981 to an estimated 65% in 1986.
5.        Although the sharp decline in cocoa production can be largely
explained by -'actors inherent to the sector, four fundamental policy
deficiencies have equally contributed to the present economic difficulties.
They are:
(a) an overvaluation of the exchange rate which has maintained import
prices artificially low and eroded the viability of domestic
production and exports, in particular cocoa;
(b) expansionary monetary and credit policies to finance fiscal
deficits, which have led, in the context of official price
controls, to the surge of parallel markets and a reduction in
real wages in the state farms, as well as a lack of wage goods;
(c) an oversized public investment program of which only 5% has been
oriented toward the cocoa sector between 1982-86; and
(d) the lack of incentive policies for the productive sector and a
wage structure that favors civil servants, and where cocoa
workers are often not paid.
6.        The fundamental objective of STP development strategy is to raise
per capita income in real terms, first, through the rehabilitation of the
cocoa production capacity, and second, through progressive diversification
by developing other cash and food crops. Since 1984, the Government has
decided to move toward a progressive liberalization of the economy. Wore
recently a new investment code has been adopted and the Government has been
actively seeking foreign private investment in various sectors.  Following
IDA's review of the country's economic situation, the Government has also
decided to embark on a far-reaching program of macroeconomic adjustment
which would ensure consistency among the exchange rate, monetary, public
finance and incentive policies. These measures include a devaluation of
the currency sufficient to restore the viability of the cocoa subsector.



- 3 -
7.        In an effort to mobilize support for its five-year Development
Plan, the Government organized a UNDP-sponsored Round Sable Conference In
December 1985, during which the participants noted the Government's
increasing willingness to tackle macroeconomic issues such as the pricing
system and the exchange rate policy. The private sector would be given a
larger role in development in che coming years through the liberalization
of economic activities. During the meeting, the participants also endorsed
the Government's development strategy which centers on reforming the State
Enterprises for Agriculture and Livestock ("Empresas Estatais
Agro-Pecuarias" - EEAs) (organization chart in Annex 1) and on diversifying
crop production. The Government's .ew approach to obtain loans on
concessional terms from a more diversified group of donors has resulted in
identifying projects with elements complementary to those of the proposed
project.
C. Agriculture Sector Issues and Strategy
8.        Agriculture is the mainstay of STP's economy and provides the
livelihood of about 70% of the population, generating approximately 30% of
GDP and 90% of the country's exports. The most important subsector, cocoa,
is described in Chapter II. Other cash crops include coffee, palm oil and
coconuts, and food crops. Food production zonsists of bananas, breadfruit,
palm oil, root crops, and vegetables grown in the context of the Mesquita
pilot project (para 36). Foodstuff imports accounted for over one-third of
the import of goods in 1986.
9.        STP's agricultural history has been marked by the monoculture of
a succession of export crops. Today, STP's established infrastructure is
principally geared toward cocoa production. However, the cocoa subsector
collapsed over the last 20 years mainly because of the increasingly
distorted economic environment, lack of management expertise, knowledge of
crop husbandry, financial resources, labor incentives, and adequate
services to the agricultural sector, as well as weak governmental
administrative capacity. The Government is reviewing the situation of the
EEAs, which a-e presently without financial resources, and is studying the
possibility of opening them to foreign participation.
10.       Agricultural production is derived from state enterprises created
at independence by consolidating plantations abandoned by their former
owners. Although such a production structure was probably the only
practical choice at the time, it is no longer appropriate because it does
not allow for manaberial and financial autonomy. To attract financial
resources and operate the enterprises soundly, the Government is
considering the conversion of agricultural enterprises into mixed-economy
enterprises and has recently promulgated an Investment Code. In the longer
term, a further change in the production structure and accompanying social
reforms might be needed to improve the welfare of the population and create
a more balanced structure of society: because of the colonial heritage,
most of the work force is employed on the plartations; there are, however,
a few independent farmers.



- 4 -
11.       The monocultivation of cash crops has discouraged food
production, and emphasis on cocoa has given STP many of the characteristics
of a single-crop economy. The Government recognizes the need for
diversification and, with French assistance, has prepared an Agriculture
Potential Map that identifies crops which have the highest production
potential in each region (Project File No. D00797). STP is also receiving
assistance from the European Economic Community (EEC) for the development
of cash crops, particularly palm oil; from the African Development Bank
(ADB) for coffee; from FAC/AFVP (Mesquita Project) for food crops such as
cereals and vegetables. It has also received assistance from USAID for
maize and pepper.
12.       STP's agricultural development strategy aims to:
(a) accelerate the revival of the cocoa industry by reinforcing
services to the cocoa subsector and rehabilitating existing
plantations and providing real income incentives to workers on
the cocoa plantations;
(b) promote greater private sector involvement by creating conditions
for foreign participation in the EEAs, and promote greater
smallholder participation in agricultural production;
(c) diversify the agriculture sector to avoid the risks of a
single-crop economy; and
(d) progressively define and carry out social reforms to improve the
rural population's standard of living.
The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing this
strategy, especially in the cocoa subsector. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government would imp!-ment by March 31, 1988, three of
the most important measures concerning (a) management autonomy for the
EEAs; (b) flexible wage system; and (c) flexibility in recruiting and
dismissing staff (para 92(a)).
II. THE COCOA SUBSECTOR
A.   Historical Context
- 13.        The islands of STP were probably uninhabited when discovered by
Portuguese navigators in 1471. The Portuguese later developed plantations
in successive crop cycles, initially sugar cane, then coffee and finally
cocoa, with slave labor from the African mainland. Cocoa was first
Introduced in 1850. Production peaked in 1913 at 36,500 tons, representing
12Z of world production, but declined steadily until the pre-independence
years to about 10,000 tons, as marginally productive lands were abandoned
and as the Portuguese, anticipating independence, did not replant old
plantations. Historical events are presented in Annex 2-1.



-5-
14.       The situation further deteriorated after 1975, due to the reasons
mentioned in paragraph 9. The 15 present EEAs account for the bulk of
STP's cocoa production, and although their production potential with
rehabilitation would be about 20,000 tons/year, they produced only 4,000
tons of cocoa in 1986. Exacerbated by the increasingly overvalued exchange
rate, production costs far exceeded revenues, and a significant number of
cocoa workers who were unpaid and had little to purchase with whatevei
wages they received withdrew from the sector. Similarly, production from
private cocoa growers decreased substantially. Production constraints are
summarized below and detailed in Annex 2-2.
B.   Production Environment
15.       Ecology.  STP's soil and climate are varied and provide in many
areas optimal conditions for growing cocoa. However, some areas presently
planted with cocoa are of doubtful agronomic value for cocoa, and the
proposed project would concentrate on the most suitable areas.
16.       Infrastructures.  The national road network is dense though
poorly maintained, distances to the port are short, and there are no
problems in transporting cocoa to port facilities which are modest and need
improvement. Plantation roads need rehabilitation and agroprocessing
facilities need to be restored. A particularly positive aspect is that
machinery has been maintained in spite of difficulties in importing spare
parts. Buildings and social amenities need substantial repairs, in
particular workers' housing; this has resulted in many workers leaving the
plantations (para 19).
17.       Production techniques.  Due to a general neglect that began in
the 1960s followed by a lack of management expertise and financial
resources, production techniques have been inadequate for the last 20
years. Cocoa seedling nurseries have been abandoned and new tree planting
and redensification programs have not been carried out; pest control has
been neglected, which has led to poor quality of cocoa beans and to a
reduction in the production potential of the trees; excessive pruning of
cocoa trees has lowered their production potential; and excessive shade
combined with intercropping has reduced yields.  This situation is
reflected in the low tree density and aged plantations. This declining
trend could, for the most part, be reversed with a technical package
including weeding, pest control and shade management. However, the general
poor state of the EEAs requires in addition a selective replanting strategy
for all EEAs over periods of various lengths (7 to 20 years), depending on
the specific conditions of each EEA. Under the proposed project, the
strategy would be to replace trees that are too old and to rehabilitate
those that are in better condition.
18.       Agroprocessing facilities (fermenting, drying, and grading) need
repair. A study of these facilities carried out during project preparation
and focusing on the two plantations to be included in the proposed project,



- 6 -
indicated that the existing facilities could be economically repaired and
improved. However, the continued use of wood-burning cocoa dryers needs to
be investigated since deforestation could disrupt the ecology in the
long-term. A study on alternative means of drying cocoa would be carried
out together with the forest inventory proposed in the recent energy
assessment report on STP (Project File No. 229.381).
19.       Human Resources.  The labor force of the EEAs dropped by 24%
between 1979 and 1984 (14,500 to 11,000), due to poor working conditions
and a drop in real wages which led foreign workers to return to their
homelands. About 40% of the work force is foreign (mainly Cape Verdeans)
and more than half is female. Because of insufficient housing and the poor
state of existing housing, many laborers have moved out of the EEAs. Since
the transportation system is poor, absenteeism is very high (about 30-40%).
Since 1980, production costs have been exceeding receipts and wages are
usually paid a few months late. Furthermore, few goods are available in
stores. With this lack of purchasing power and irregular food supply,
laborers work only 4 to 5-hour days but are paid on an 8-hour day basis.
The Government has confirmed its intention to modify the salary system for
the EEA workers by introducing a fixed salary plus a bonus for productivity
at each EEA (para 12 and 34).
C.   Main Institutions
20.       Since cocoa production affects all aspects of the economy, most
of the major government institutions are responsible for policies affecting
the cocoa subsector. However, a lack of well defined responsibilities
among them has resulted in inefficiencies, with negative effects on cocoa
production. These institutieas are described in Annex 2-3 and include
(a) the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development ("Ministerio de
Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural" - MADR) which is also responsible for
the POTO Agricultural Experimental Station, and the Mesquita pilot project;
(b) the Ministry of Planning (MP); (c) the Ministry of Finance which is
also responsible for the National Bank ("Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e
Principe" - BNSTP); (d) the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism
which is responsible for ECOMIN, a public enterprise in charge of selling
key imports locally, and ECOMEX, a public enterprise in charge of exports
and imports; and (e) the Ministry of Cooperation which is responsible for
negotiating management contracts and foreign financing for the EEAs.
21.       A particular institutional constraint has been the lack of EEAs'
managerial and financial autonomy. The Government recently announced its
intention to give the EEAs increased management autonomy, including a
reasonable degree of financial and administrative autonomy in terms of
recruiting and dismissing staff, salaries, imports of inputs and goods, and
exports.



-7-
D. Cocoa Subsector Strategy
22.       The Government's cocoa subsector strategy is an integral part of
the agriculture sector strategy (para 12). Its ultimate objective is to
produce cocoa at an optimal production level where cocoa planting is the
most economic use for the land. In the meantime, the Government has
formulaced macroeconomic policies aimed at creating a favorable economic
and social environment by restoring the competItiveness of the cocoa
subsector at large.
23.       Sectoral policy reforms already focus on the role of the private
sector and social issues, including the status of agricultural workers.
With the assistance of the project, they would also focus on crop
diversification, types of agro-industrial development, land use and
environment, financial policies (especially concerning agricultural
credit). The policy reforms aim at giving the EEAs adequate managerial and
financial autonomy, at assisting in converting them gradually into
mixed-economy enterprises, and at implementing the Investment Code.
Services provided by the Government to the cocoa industry would initially
include training and technical assistance, and in the medium-term financial
services and agricultural credit. In carrying out the above strategy, the
Government vould initially focus on economic recovery by increasing cocoa
production to generate foreign exchange earnings.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
24.       Cocoa is of overwhelming importance to STP's economy.  Any
substantial improvement of economic conditions in the country is linked to
the rehabilitation of the cocoa subsector. In addition, the proposed
project would be the first major step in implementing the Government's
strategy to give its agricultural enterprises true autonomy in their
decision-making process and in their access to, and use of, resources. The
Bank Group, including IFC, has a comparative advantage in attracting
external financing and private firms to assist the Government in this
undertaking. Furthermore, the project would be implemented in parallel
with a Structural Adjustment Credit, which will provide the macro framework
within which supply responses can be expected to take place and will ensure
the viability of the country's external accounts over the 1987-89 period.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
25.       The project aims at suppozting the Government's efforts to
achieve economic recovery by increasing cocoa production and to reach its
longer term objectives for the development of the agriculture sector as a
whole. The project would:



1.   contribute to increasing production and improving social
conditions for workers in two cocoa plantations; and
2.   reinforce STP's agriculture sector with emphasis on (i) the cocoa
subsector by facilitating future financing of other plantations
presently not receiving external assistance, and providing
technical support and training; (ii) the food crop subsector by
creating an applied research capacity; (iii) supporting
smallholders development; and (iv) addressing other issues
through technical assistance for the preparation and
implementation of studies and strategies, including that of land
distribution.
B.   Summary Description
26.       The project would constitute a five-year time slice of a
long-term rehabilitation program, and would include the following
components:
1.   Plantation development in two EEAs (Bela Vista and Uba Budo -
Map 19574) including, for each EEA:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of cocoa production; and
(b) increase in labor productivity.
2.   Support to the agriculture sector with emphasis on the cocoa and
food crop subsectors by:
(a) strengthening cocoa applied research and technical support
activities;
(b) reintroducing agricultural training activities;
(c) introducing food crop applied research and development
activities;
(d) assisting other EEAs not already benefiting from external
assistance in developing plans to rehabilitate their
enterprises or restructure their activities if necessary, in
order to attract financing to carry out such plans;
(e) assisting smallholders in increasing production through the
importation of inputs and small tools. as well as technical
support and training; and



-9-
(f) undertaking studies and using consultants to assist the
Government in formulating policies and creating an economic
and social environment favorable to the development of its
agriculture sector, particularly the promotion of food crop
development and diversification.
The Government would ensure the pursuit of project objectives beyond the
five-year period, according to a plan which would be submitted to IDA for
review by June 30, 1991. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (para 92(b)).
C. Detailed Features
1.   Plantation Development
27.       Two EEAs, Bela Vista and U a Budo, would be modernized under the
proposed project. Their current low production and yield are principally
due to (a) insufficient management capacity and resources to apply modern
production techniques, and (b) low labor productivity. To correct this
situation two foreign firms with expertise in plantation management have
been selected by the Government to manage one EEA each and initiate a
program of rehabilitation and replanting. Emphasis would be placed on
increasing labor productivity by improving workers' conditions,
regularizing their salary situation and providing them with incentives
(including the introduction of a bonus system), developing food crop
production, and improving social infrastructure.
(a) Rehabilitation, Management and Expansion of Cocoa Production
28.       Given the wide difference in the conditions of the two ERAs,
(Annexes 3-1 and 3-2), Bela Vista would emphasize rehabilitation and Uba
Budo, replanting. The two foreign firms selected by the Government to
fully manage one EEA each would have the authority to market directly the
cocoa produced in their respective EEA. The management contracts signed on
May 13, 1987 are described in Annex 3-3. A condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit is that (a) the conditions of effectiveness of at least one
of the management contracts between either of the foreign firms and the EEA
under its management would be fulfilled (except for its cross-effectiveness
condition with the IDA credit and the down payment for start-up activities)
(para 93(a)); and (b) the said EEA would have (i) settled its outstanding
debts with BNSTP; and (ii) established an acceptable accounting system. A
condition of disbursement of IDA funds for the other EEA is that the other
foreign firm and EEA would have complied with the above arrangements (para
94).
29.       The foreign firms have initiated activities in STP under separate
short-term contracts. They have made a physical assessment of the
delineation of each EEA, soil conditions, existing assets including trees,
equipment, machinery, and stock, as well as an assessment of personnel
needs. Each has presented a report from which project costs have been



- 10 -
established. They have also prepared nurseries and initiated planting
activities.  The firms are also establishing an accounting system to fit
efficient management needs. These activities have been financed by the
Project Preparation Facility and supplemented by an allocation from the
Line of Credit for Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization (Cr.
1590-STP). Under the project, the foreign firms would, within the limits
of approved annual work plans and budgets (para 66), initiate a full
investment program to modernize the plantations. They would principally
rehabilitate and replant cocoa trees, construct or repair existing
infrastructure, and supervise the construction of new ones (irrigation
canals, plantation access roads, processing facilities, houses and central
buildings). They would ensure technology transfer by setting up
administrative, financial and management systems, and by training
counterparts to the experts (initially a minimum of five). They would also
carry out several short-term missions from headquarters for specific
activities and general supervision. The management contracts, agricultural
inputs and machinery, civil works, and equipment for the two EEAs vould be
financed under the project. All labor costs and an increasing percentage
of other costs would be covered by revenues from cocoa sales (paras 77 and
80).
30.       Out of Bela Vista's total cultivated area of about 3,200 ha,
2,100 ha are planted with cocoa, and the rest consists of about 950 ha of
other cash crops (palm oil, coconuts) and 150 ha of food crops. Although
Bela Vista is one of the better EEAs due to the long experience of its
general manager in cocoa plantations, production has fallen from 1,100
tons/year in 1980 to an estimated 550 tons in 1986. In addition to poor
production techniques (paras 17-18), the more recent decline of production
is due to disrepair of the existing irrigation network on 1,500 ha (details
in Annex 3-1). Given the better condition of the trees in Bela Vista
compared to those at Uba Budo, the foreign firm would emphasize
rehabilitation.
31.       Under the project, about 1,700 ha of cocoa would be rehabilitated
and the remaining area, which is unsuitable for cocoa production, would be
allocated to food crops or eventually reforested as appropriate; the areas
cultivated with other cash crops would be maintained. These activities
would be managed by the foreign firm selected by the Government ("Francisco
Mantero - Agricultura e Com6rcio Internacional, S.A." - FM), a Portuguese
firm with a long experience in plantation management in Sao Tome. To
satisfy the management contract requirement of effecting liaison with a
reputable scientific institute specializing in cocoa, FM is associating
itself with the "Comissao Executiva do Plano da Lavoura Cacaueira" (CEPLAC)
of Brazil. Under the rehabilitation program, about 200 ha would be
replanted and the rest rehabilitated. These areas could be reduced or
expanded later, subject to a technical review of the detailed plantation
development plans during project implementation. Annex 3-4 provides a
breakdown of the planting schedule, expected yields, cost per hectare, and
the expected production in tons.



- 11 -
32.       Uba Budo's total cultivated area of about 3,400 ha covers 2,300
ha planted with cocoa, the rest consists of cash crops, food crops,
forests, and marginal areas. Production has steadily declined from 400
tons in 1982 to 285 tons in 1984 and 165 tons in 1985. Figures for 1986
are estimated to be over 300 tons because of favorable weather conditions.
(More details are given in Annex 3-2). The mat: causes of Uba Budo's
situation are lack of management and a r*p4dly depleting labor force. The
foreign firm selected by the Government to manage Uba Budo,
SOCFINCO-FRANCE, S.A., a Franco-Belgian firm with worldwide experience in
plantation management, would effect liaison with three French entities to
draw on their experience and competence in agriculture, cocoa technology,
and cocoa marketing.
33.       Under the project, about 1,800 ha of cocoa would be
rehabilitated. Given the particularly deteriorated state of the trees in
Uba Budo, an intensive replanting schedule for 1,50C ha and a
rehabilitation schedule for 300 ha have been envisaged (Annex 3-4). As for
Bela Vista, the planting schedule might be revised after further technical
review during implementation. Although rainfall is more favorable here
than in Bela Vista, about 200 ha of marginal cocoa producing areas would be
irrigated, as well as an area for food crop would be developed by workers.
(b) Increasing Labor Productivity
34.       Workers' Situation.  The management contracts give the two
foreign firms adequate power to manage their staff efficiently (Annex 3-3),
Including the power to distribute incentives, and to recruit and discharge
staff in conformity with existing STP labor legislation and labor rules
that the foreign firms might want to establish. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would take all the necessary steps to
ensure that the payment of salaries to Bela Vista and Uba Budo workers are
made on time (para 92(c)). The foreign firms would re-establish EEA
general stores for the sale of basic consumer goods to workers.   Should
these goods not be available locally, the management firms, after
consultation with Government, would import them directly using foreign
exchange from cocoa sales.  Other critical fac... s necessary to improve
labor productivity are food crop development and improved social
infrastructure, which are discussed below.
35.       Food Crop Plots.  To supplement workers' monetary compensation in
Bela Vista and Uba Budo, the successful activities of the FAC-financed
Mesquita Project on food crop extension (Annex 2-3) would be extended to
these two EEAs. At present workers are randomly cultivating food crops
without official authorization, Under the project, the workers' rights to
cultivate food plots would be officially recognized and an area of 250 ha
for 1,000 workers in the two EEAs would be demarcated for this purpose. If
necessary, these areas would be expanded during project implementation as
the labor force builds up. Each direct family unit (of which at least one
member must work either at Bela Vista or Uba Budo) would be assigned a plot
to be cultivated by family members not working on these EEAs and by EEA
workers outside their regular working hours. Since this activity would not



- 12 -
meet all their ,ood requirements, the workers would continue to receive
food under a three-year World Food Programme (WFP) in lieu of a third of
their salary. For an interim period (three to four years) the prices would
be subsidized to cushion the shock of devaluation. The Dobra counterpart
funds of the food   4d to the workers would be deposited by the EEA into
the Government's account in BNSTP for social works under the WFP project.
(Details are in Project File No. 228.975.) It is expected that these two
elements, combined with some cash purchases, would satisfy the nutritional
requirements of the EEA workers and their families.
36.       This component would be managed by the Mesquita Project rather
than by the foreign firms whose task would be to concentrate on industrial
crop activities. A volunteer specialist in food crops and support staff
would be assigned to each EEA to advise workers. The volunteer would work
under the direction of the Mesquita Project but in close cooperation with
the foreign firm. Workers would be initially supplied with tools and
inputs free of charge, which would be procured through the Mesquita
Project. Thereafter, they would purchase replacement tools and additional
inputs at cost plus 15%. Sales revenues would be deposited into the
revolving fund established by the Mesquita Project to assist other farmers
to start food plots. These arrangements have proven satisfactory under the
Mesquita Project. Under the project, FAC/AFVP would finance two AFVP
volunteers and two vehicles equipped with demonstration equipment, and IFAD
would finance workers' tools, inputs, and furnishings for the volunteers'
houses. Each EEA would provide the necessary housing for its volunteer and
the Government would provide the necessary local support staff through the
Mesquita Project.
37.       Improved Social Infrastructure.  The project would improve
workers' living conditions and social environment through the repair of
existing buildings and social amenities and the construction of additional
housing. Because a substantial part of existing housing and collective
facilities is of low standard and in severe disrepair, many workers have
moved to town and absenteeism is high. The problem is aggravated by the
occupancy of the facilities by many retirees and relatives of workers who
do not work on the two EEAs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
by December 31, 1987, the Government would, after consultation with IDA,
regularize the housing situation by establishing rules to determine who
would be housed on the two plantations and by relocating others according
to a plan acceptable to IDA (para 92(d)). This component would include the
improvement of existing day-care facilities and schools to assist female
workers who provide most of the field labor. Specifically, the project
would: (a) ensure the transportation of those workers who live in nearby
towns; (b) rehabilitate and improve housing in the two EEAs, including
water supply, sanitary facilities and electricity; (c) build, renovate and
enlarge social 4nfrastructure where necessary, particularly the existing
day-care centers and schools; (d) initiate a program of self-help
construction of houses within the framework of the Government's new
orientation toward promoting this activi:y. Under the self-help



- 13 -
construction program, workers who do not live in repairable houses on the
two EEAs would be given time, and provided with the necessary materials, to
build their own houses.
38.       A consultant would be recruited to assess the situation,
including the need for new housing, most appropriate design and legal
implications of the self-help construction program. The local costs for
civil works would be financed by the Government from funds available under
the WFP project, complemented if necessary by budgetary funds. OPEC would
finance the foreign exchange costs, i.e., the consultant fees and imported
materials for civil works. The foreign firms would be responsible for the
preparation of plans based on the consultant's recommendations, and for the
execution of the construction program. The Project Support Unit (PSU)
(para 63) would coordinate with MADR, which is responsible for the WFP
project, and would ensure that funds for local costs would be available in
due time.
2.   Support to the Agriculture Sector with Emphasis
on the Cocoa and Food Crop Subsectors
39.       In line with the Government's strategy to strengthen the
agriculture sector (para 12) and diversify its agricultural base, the
project would strengthen STP's agricultural support services in the areas
of cocoa technical support, agricultural training and food crop
development. The project would also facilitate the Government's efforts in
seeking external financing for the other EEAs. Furthermore, it would
promote the establishment of additional services, such as the development
of an agricultural credit system, and initiate an agricultural
diversification program. Because of disarray in the institutions in charge
of applied research (POTO Station) and training (CATAP), institutional
changes would be brought about in two phases: a first phase with immediate
effect during which small independent units would be established, using
existing staff and facilities; this first phase is described in the
following paragraphs. In a second phase, institutional reforms to
establish sustainable applied research, training and agricultural services
would be carried out. Preparations for these reforms would be made by the
Government during project implementation with the assistance of consultants
and in consultation with IDA. A specific plan to implement these reforms
would be discussed during the project's Interim Review (para 68).
(a) Cocoa Applied Research and Technical Support
40.       At present the agriculture sector receives minimum technical
support from the Agricultural Experimental Station at POTO, which
functions as a department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development. Most of its staff (about 70%Z have no defined functions, are
underqualified, and have low morale due to poor working conditions. A
feasibility study, financed under the PPF, concluded that a full
reorganization and rehabilitation of the POTO Station would entail major
investments in time and capital costs which would not be justified in
relation to the present level of production and the urgent need for



- 14 -
Improving technical support to the cocoa subsector (Project File No.
228.965).  The Government agreed, therefore, that in the initial stage a
small Cocoa Applied Research and Development Unit would be established at
the POTO Station to monitor and provide technical support to the EEAs. The
unit would associate scientifically with the Station to benefit from its
work, but would be administratively and financially independent. There
would be a scientific committee, consisting of members from IRCC, the
participating EEAs and the MADR, to review the results of applied research
and to decide on a course of action.
41.         An initial work plan has been developed whereby in the first
phase the main areas for development would be (i) optimization of
fertilizer use, (ii) trials and optimization of defense systems
(particularly against black pod), and (iii) monitoring of new planting
methods such as the no-shade technology. In a second phase, other programs
such as the production of hybrid seeds and the use of vegetable materials,
introduced to STP as well as those present in the POTO Station, could be
developed. As an on-going activity, the unit would also provide technical
support, in particular to those EE&s being rehabilitated under external
financing. This support would include the training of personnel during
field visits by specialists, as well as specific seminars to be organized
with them by the training unit. One cocoa specialist from IRCC would be
stationed at POTO to head the unit for 3 years. He would be assisted by a
French National Service Volunteer and periodic missions from consultants
for specific areas. Six staff members would be chosen among existing
personnel at POTO for the posts of team chief (1), agricultural workers
(4), and secretary (1). Further details on this component within the POTO
Station are in Project File No. D00801. Under the FPF, IDA has financed
the feasibility study for this componeut and the planting of a nursery
(para 62). The French CCCE would finance technical assistance, equipment,
inputs and training and FAC would fin4nce the volunteer.
(b)  Agricultural Trainin
42.       The project would also help to develop a three-phase national
training capacity in agriculture. First, the foreign firms would trair
national personnel of Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs in plantation management
and the application of technologies, and send key staff abroad for
specialized training so they could gradually replace expatriate staff.
Second, the technical assistance teams of the applied cocoa and food crop
research components would train counterpart personnel locRlly or abroad to
ensure their ability to replace expatriate staff at tha end of the project.
Furthermore, the teams would provide in-plantation training, as
appropriate, during their field visits. Third, a small training unit would
be established at Bela Vista to train initially foremen and administrative
personnel, principally those in ERAs which have the potential of being
rehabilitated either under external financing or through privatization. At
a later stage, private smallholders could also be trained. Training would
primarily focus on cocoa production, including administrative skills



- 15 -
related to supervising workers and to handling physical and financial
resources, as well as on more technical courses In production methods, and
maintenance and repair of machinery.
43.       During the preparatory phase, the reestablishment of the C&TAP
training center (closed since January 1985) was studied by USAID and the
Institute for Economic Cooperation (ICE) of Portugal, but was abandoned
because of lack of trained national staff, funds for the rehabilitation of
the center, and absorptive capacity for structured training in the
agriculture sector. The unit would be headed by a resident training
advisor, assisted by a national counterpart already nominated by NADR, and
a secretary. Consultants would be recruited for-training in specific
topics. Most of the training would be on site and only an office and small
training room would be rehabilitated at Bela Vista. There would be a
Training Committee consisting of the resident training advisor, his
national ceunterpart, representatives from the participating EEAs and the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Committee would meet periodically to (i)
analyze general training needs in the agriculture sec:or; (ii) review
course selection; (iii) assist in participant selection; (iv) monitor
course implementation; and (v) assist in the post-training phase. A full
description of this component is in Project File No. D00801 and details
were worked out with MADR and participating EEAs during the USAID/ICE
mission in February 1987. The timing of this component is not critical to
the project. The training unit will be financed through a trilateral
agreement with USAIDIICE and the Government of STP. Under the agreement,
USAID and ICE will finance one technician in Tropical Crops/Agricultural
Education for three years and thirty months of short-term specialists,
fellowships, vehicles, furnishings and training materials.
(c) Food Crop Applied Research and Development
44.       Although the cocoa subsector is the most important source of
revenue for STP, it is in STP's long-term interest to reduce its dependence
on monoculture and, therefore, take the necessary measures to assure a
steady increase of domestic food production. STP is heavily dependent on
food aid for its domestic consumption. In addition, one-third of export
revenues in 1986 was spent on food imports. In the last six years, STP has
been receiving technical and capital assistance for the production of, and
extension services for, food crops (FAC/AFVP, UN Emergency Fund and USAID).
However, there is no applied research and development program for food crop
development. The project would create a Food Crop Development Unit at the
Mesquita Site (Annex 2-3, para (g)) which would be responsible for
introducing, selecting and testing seeds in order to identify the varieties
that would be most adaptable to the conditions of the country, as well as
for adapting the cultural techniques that must accompany them. It would
work together with the Mesquita Project and build on its practical
experience.



- 16 -
45.            An expert in the selection and production of seeds would be
recruitad for 3 years to head the Unit. He would be assisted by a national
counterpairt and three agricultural workers. Consultants would be recruited
for specialized training for the existing and newly recruited extension
staff and field technicians. A study would be carried out after the first
year to assess the feasibility of developing a center for seed production
and ..mproved vegetable material. IFAD would finance the technical
assistance, construction of an office, laboratory, a small warehouse,
housing for the expert, and inputs and equipment to carry out the experiments.
The Government would supply a national counterpart and three workers. The
implementation of this component would be based on annual work programs to
be approved by IDA/IFAD. The first year's work program was discussed in
detail with the Government at negotiations.
(d) Support to Other EEAs
46.       Since the Government intends to rehabilitate the other EEAs, the
project would assist in determining their needs and seeking financing by
(i) making a quick assessment of their key constraints and immediate
management and technical needs; (ii) when appropriate, preparing a
pre-feasibility level rehabilitation plan including an estimate of the
financing needed to carry it out; and (iii) preparing a detailed action
program to finalize any required studies and carry out the plan. This
assistance would be provided by the PSU assisted by short-term consultant
missions. In a first scage, a consultant would define the methodology to
carry out these assessments and train PSU staff, and subsequently make
regular visits to provide further guidance. Upon recommendation from the
Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, the Government would attempt
to arrange financing when appropriate.
47.       Some agricultural inputs would be made available through the
project to support urgently identified needs. Technical support would be
provided by the cocoa applied research and development unit at POTO (para
40). It is also expected that the management techniques of the foreign
firms in Bela Vista and Uba Budo would have a demonstration effect on the
other EEAs, and that the foreign firms' know-how would be made available to
them if so requested.
(e) Assistance to Smallholders
48.       As a result of 400 years of colonial rule, smallholdings are not
a tradition in STP (para 10). About 3,500 independent farmers cultivate
about 2,600 ha, of which half is planted with cocoa. To support government
policy to stimulate agricultural production by the private sector (para
12), technical guidance would be made available under the cocoa technical
support (para 42) and food crop development (para 44) compone.nts. The
project would also facilitate access to inputs, small tools anrd achinery
by smallholders. Initially, these items would continue to be imported by
Mesquita and sold on a cash or a credit basis to the farmers for food crop
development. Cocoa producing smallholders will have access to the foreign
exchange generated by their exports for imports of inputs, equipment and



- 17 -
machinery. They woald be free to request the agricultural enterprises,
ECOMEX or any other private importer, to import the necessary inputs on
their behalf. In the meantime, a consultant would be recruited to confirm
the feasibility of establishing a credit secheme and establish criteria for
eligibility and conditions of lending to far1ezes and a system to process
and monitor these loans.
49.       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these imports would
be made accessible to smallholders initially through the Mesquita Project,
and that after the first year of implementation, but not later than
December 31, 1988, a review would be made by the Government in consultation
with IDA and IFAD to determine the most appropriate system for future
import and sale of the inputs, tools and machinery (para 92(e)). IFAD
would finance technical assistance, training, inputs, tools and machinery.
(f) Studies and Consulting Services on the A8riculture Sector
50.       The proposed project would include studies and consulting
services to assist the Government in formulating and implementing policies
in the agriculture sector (paras 12, 22 and 23). These studies and
consulting services would fall into three main groups. First, consulting
services would assist Government to rationalize its on-going land
distribution programs by (i) identifying appropriate land and crops for
diversification and private smallholder development using the FAC-financed
Agricultural Potential Map; (ii) improving land tenure through the
development of a mechanism and corresponding procedures for granting land
titles to individuals and of a legal framework for issuing land titles.
Second, a study would be made to develop a strategy to attract foreign
investors in response to the Investment Code.
51.       Third, studies and consulting services would be carried out to
answer more specific questions on (i) cocoa marketing; (ii) the status of
STP's ecology and ecological effects of the proposed rehabilitation program
and diversification of crops on STP's unique flora and fauna; (iii)
fuelwood needs for cocoa dryers and their effect on deforestation, together
with a forest inventory as proposed in the energy assessment report (para
18); (iv) role, organization, manpower planning and training needr of MADR;
and (v) ways to prepare future projects and respond to particular
situations which might arise during project implementation. MADR's
Planning Department would be responsible, in liaison with the PSU, for
preparing terms of reference end for supervising the execution of most of
these activities, and the PSU would be responsible for their monitoring and
coordination. Terms of reference for the principal studies and consulting
services were agreed upon during negotiations (Annex 3-5). The PSU would
be responsible for ensuring the preparation of the remaining terms of
reference which would be subject to approval by the Minister of Agriculture
and Rural Development. The recommendations of the studies and action plans
for the implementation of strategies would be submitted to IDA not later
than September 30, 1988. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (para 92(f)). About 10 man-months of consultancies and
US$450,000 for studies would be financed under the project.



- 18 -
D.   Et21st Costs and Financing
1.   Project Costs
52.       Total project costs, over a five-year period, are estimated at
US$21.8 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of 87X
(Annex 3-6). This amount only includes incremental costs and itplicit
taxes on locally procured items which are marginal, but excludes taxes and
import duties on direct imports since the Government has indicated that
they would be waived. Cost estimates are based on December 1986 price
estimates and include physical contingencies of 10% on all costs except
nanagement fees (which are fixed under the terms of the contracts between
the foreign firms and Government), local labor (at 0) and technical
assistance (which carries 5Z). Price contingencies have been calculated on
foreign costs according to Bank procedures, which have been estimated at
3.01 for 1987, 1.01 for 1988-1990, and 3.5Z for 1991. There is no accurate
measure of inflation rate in STP but it is assumed that periodic
devaluations will take place under the new exchange rate system to be
established under the Structural Adjustment Credit which will offset for
the differential between domestic and international inflation.
Nevertheless, some lag in adjustment is assumed and price contingencies for
domestic costs have been estimated at 8.1Z for 1987, 6.3% for 1988-1990,
and 8.51 for 1991. Total contingencies are equivalent to 142 of base cost
estimates, or 121 of total costs.
2.   Finanv1
53.       External financing would amount to US$19.7 million, which
represents 901 of project costs. IDA's contribution would amount to
SDR 6.1 million (US$7.9 million equivalent) including refinancing of
advances under the PPF totaling US$1.5 million. IDA financing would cover
mainly the management contracts and part of the agricultural investment
costs of the Bela Vista and Uba Budo plantations, and studies and
consultancy services for the agriculture sector and cocoa subsector. BADEA
has approved a contribution of US$6.0 million for the agricultural
investment costs of most Uba Budo plantation and some Bela Vista
plantation. CCCE has confirmed its intention to finance cocoa technical
support activities for an estimated US$1.0 million. OPEC has expressed its
intention to finance US$1.1 million for the agricultural investment costs
of Bela Vista. IFAD plans to finance US$1.9 million for components related
to food crop development, private smallholders, and studies on
diversification. USAID has approved a contribution of US$0.9 million, for
training activities through its trilateral agreement with Portugal and STP.
WFP would contribute US$0.6 million equivalent in food for the social
infrastructure component. FAC/AFVP would contribute US$0.3 million for
food crop development activities in the two plantations and for cocoa
applied research. The Government's contribution of about US$2.1 million
would cover incremental staff, and operational and maintenance costs,
mostly paid from the cocoa revenues of the two EEAs. The cofinancing
situation is summarized below.



- 19 -
FINANCING PLAN (US million):
Food
USA!! Support to FAC
and   Laborers  and        Total
IDA   BR   IFAD   COCE  OPEC  Portumal  WFP    AFVP  OVT. Coets 
1. Plnation2!V10Mt
etea Vista
(a) Productio         2.3  1.4    -       -      1.1         -           -   0.8   5.6
(b) Food crops         -          0.05            -      -                     -   0.1
(c) Social
Infrastructure     -   0.4     -      -       -      -    0.3        -   0.3   1.0
Uba 8udo
(a) Production        3.8  3.6    -                                      -   0.4   7.7
(b) Food crops         -    -    O.OS         -       -      -         0.1    -   0.1
(c) Social
Infrastructure     -   0.4    -       -       -      -    0.3        -   0.3   1.0
2. !Sr  to the Z. Sector
ta Ccoa leania  *w  0.3    -             1.0     -           -          0.1  0.1   1.5
(b) Agr. Tralning     0.2    -     .      -       ,     0.9      ,       _          1.1
(c) Food Crop Dev.                0.8             -                            -   0.9
(d) Sup. to Other As    0.5  0.2    -     -       -      -       -       -    -   0.8
(e) Smallbolders                  0.7                                               0.7
(f) Agr. Studies & PSU   0.8   _  0.3              _2    1.3
Total Financing    la2   Ai    La    L.    WL.    2n 
54.       USAID, Portugal, FAC, APVP, and WmP contributions would be in the
form of grants to the Government. IDA, BADRA, CCCE, OPEC, and IFAD
contributions would be in the form of credits on standard terms. Delays in
implementing the components cofinanced in parallel would have little effect
on project implementation and would not substantially reduce benefits. The
fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the BADEA and
OPEC loans is a condition of effectiveness of the management contracts
(Annex 3-3). Cross-effectiveness clauses linked to the management
contracts are given in paragraph 28. Under these circumstances, direct
cross-effectiveness conditions of the IDA credit with the BADEA and OPEC
loans are not necessary. On the basis of the cofinancing arrangements, the
present IDA credit of SDR 6.1 million (US$7.9 million) would finance about
362 of total project costs.
55.       Funds would be passed on from the Government to the EEAs as
equity. Because of the precarious financial situation of the EEAs
(para 57), it would be premature to burden them with debt. Receiving funds
as equity would enable the EEAs to build up a sound financial base that
would permit them in the medium-term to borrow, and possibly, if
circumstances warrant, to diversify their equity base. Funds to other
project public institutions would be passed on as grants. Since funds
advanced under the first two PPFs were Insufficient to cover start-up
expenses, a supplement equivalent to US$500,000 was allocated from the
agricultural component of the Line of Credit for Economic Rehabilitation
and Modernization (Cr. 1590-STP). Funds were exhausted again by February
1987 and additional financing was made available through a third PPF.



- 20 -
E. Accounts and Audits
56.       Each separate entity under the project would maintain accounts to
provide adequate and timely information about its operations. The project
beneficiaries would include: (a) the two EEAs, Bela Vista and Uba Budo,
which are revenue-earning entities; and (b) other entities which would not
earn substantial revenues, including the Project Support Unit, the
research, training and food crop development units, the project-related
component of the Mesquita Project, and the project-related component of the
WFP project. Project-related activities would be identifiable separately.
Financing for the annual audits has been included in the project support
component. the accounts, together with statements of expenditures where
relevant (para 61), would be audited annually by internationally recruited
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Annual accounts would be submitted
to IDA within four months, and audited accounts within six months, of the
end of each fiscal year. Assurances on these accounting and auditing
arrangements were obtained at negotiations (para 92(g)).
57.       A Statement of Financial Affairs prepared in 1985 revealed that
none of the ERAs, including Bela Vista and Uba Budo, is financially sound,
that reliable accounting practices have not been followed and that accurate
financial figures for the EEAs are not available. (Details are in Project
File No. 228.960.) Prior to disbursing IDA funds to any of the ERAs,
acceptable accounting systems would be prepared (para 28). It was agreed
during negotiations that if a satisfactory valuation of the assets of Bela
Vista and Uba Budo is not available at the time of the first audit,
Government would be responsible for employing consultants to furnish
promptly an acceptable valuation of assets' report to IDA.
58.       The Government would open three foreign exchange accounts
(special accounts) at BNSTP: one upon IDA credit effectiveness and
Government request, i.e., a special account (revolving fund) to be managed
by PSU (para 63), in which IDA would deposit initially US$50,000
representing the equivalent of about three months of cash expenditures in
the project components other than the Bela Vista and Uba Budo ERAs. Each
of the two other accounts would be opened upon compliance with IDA
conditions of credit effectiveness and disbursement (para 28): one in the
name of Bela Vista and the other in the name of Uba Budo, in which IDA
would deposit US$100,000 as initial working capital, i.e., the equivalent
of about three months of expenditures, except items that would be paid
directly to suppliers. Other accounts would be opened for each
cofinancier. The Government's contribution (out of revenues from Bela
Vista and Uba Budo) would be deposited in two fore3gn currency accounts and
two local currency accounts according to agreements reached with the two
foreign firms (Annex 3-3).



- 21 -
F.    Procurement and Disbursements
1.    Procurement
59.          Procurement arrangements are summarized below, with figures  in
parentheses showing the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ million)
Total
Procurement Element                             ICB             LCB                Other               Costs
Management Contracts a/                          -                -                 4.6                 4.6
-               -                 (4.6)               (4.6)
Civil Works and Construction Materials d/        -               1.5 h/             1.8 b+c/            3.3
-             (O.1)               (0.1)               (0.2)
Equipment and Vehicles                           -                -                 1.3 b+c/            1.3
_               -                 (0.1                (0.1)
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies  e/ ^                                    3 4 b+c/            3.4
-       -                ~~~~~~~(0.6)-       (0.6)
Agricultural Inputs d/                                                              3.3 b+c/            3.3
(0.7)-             (0.7)
Agricultural Machinery d/                                                           2.2 b/              2.2
-                                           ~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~(0.2)_  (0.2)
Operating Costs and Maintenance                          -                          2 1 b+f/            2.1
Personnel                                        -                -                 0.1ff               0.1
Reimbursement of PPP                                                                1.5 +cJ             1.5
-       -                ~~~~~~~(1.5)         1)
Total                -1.5                              X                     .
a/   Government invited firms from several countries to submit proposals and signed contracts with two
foreign firms.
b/   Includes cofinancing subject to cofinanciers' procedures.
_/   Contracts of less than US$100,000 would be made through International shopping or under force
account as appropriate.
d/   Bidding documents for contracts estimated at more than US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to
prior review by IDA.
el  Technical assistance, training and studies would be procured following Bank guidelines.
T/   Paid by the Government.
i/   Start-up activities by the two foreign firms.
Procurement will be subject to Government regulations governing local competitive bidding, which
would be reviewed and amended as necessary to ensure acceptability by IDA.



- 22 -
2.   Disbursements
60.       Disbursements of the IDA credit of SDR 6.1 million
(US$7.9 million equivalent) is shown over an 7-1/2-year period starting
July 1, 1987 (Annex 3-7), according to Bank guidelines. Project
disbursements follow the standard profile, but start at a higher level
because of a US$1.5 million reimbursement of the PPF in the first year.
The project disbursement period has been reduced to 7-1/2 years from the
standard period of 8-1/2 years because the foreign firms managing the two
plantations Bela Vista and Uba Budo (which account for 662 of total project
costs and 84% of IDA financing) have been in place and started replanting
activities since March 1986 under PPF financlng. Retroactive financing of
up to SDR 250,000 would be available for expenditures relating to the two
management contracts between June I, 1987 and the date of signing the
credit agreement. The closing date of the Credit would be December 31,
1994. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows.
DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
(US$ million)
% of Expenditurrs
Category                                       Amount              To be FbancJd./
fore         Loca
1. Plantation Devel2ont (Bela Vista)
(a) management Services                     1.3               10E            -
(b) Techn. Assistance, Training, Studies    0.1               100          100
(c) Civil Works                             0.1               100           90
(4) Equipment, Machinery and Vehicles       0.3               100           90
Ce) Agricultural Inputs                     0.1               100           90
Sub-total Plantation Bela Vista      1.9
2. Plantation Development (Uba Budo)
(a) Management Services                     2.3               100
(b) Tech. Assistance, Training, Studies     0.1               100          100
^c) Civil Works                             0.2               100           90
(d) Equipment, Machinery and Vehicles       0.1               100           90
(e) Agricultur-l Inputs                     0.2               100           90
Sub-total Plantation Uba Budo        2.9
3. Su  rt to Aricultural Sector: Technical
Assistance, Traintig, Studes, Audit
(a) Other EeAs and Smallholders             0.1               100          100
(b) PSU, Studies, and Consultants           0.4               100          100
Sub-total Supp. to Agric. Sector     0.5
4. Equipment and Supplies for the PSU           0.1               100          100
5. Reimbursement PPF                            1.5
6. Unallocated                                  1.0
Total Disbursements          LS
at  These percentages represent the percentage of the eligible costs that IDA would disburse.



- 23 -
61.       Disbursements against management fees, inputs, machinery,
vehicles, equipment and consultancies would be made upon applications by
the project coordinator (para 63) and fully documented; disbursements for
local purchases below US$20,000 equivalent and work on force account would
be against statements of expenditures. For Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs
certification of local purchases and work done on force account would be
made by their general managers. Other purchases would be certified by the
project coordinator. Full documentation would be retained by the Project
Support Unit and the Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs for review by auditors
and IDA supervision missions.
G.   Implementation and Or&anization
1.   Preparatory Activities
62.       In December 1984, February 1986 and March 1987, IDA approved
three PPF advances totaling US$1.5 million to carry out project preparation
activities and finance a program of start-up activities. They included
housing for foreign experts expected to arrive at the beginning of the
project, preparation of implementation studies and start-up activities by
the two foreign firms for Bela Vista and Uba Budo (para 65), short-term
consultancies to carry out a feasibility study, soil analysis and the
planting of imported high-yielding cocoa hybrids in a pilot-scale nursery
(para 41), and other short-term consultancies for detailed project
preparation and start-up activities. The two foreign firms had each
prepared nurseries while awaiting project approval to ensure early project
start-up and quick realization of benefits. When project processing was
suspended in June 1986 because of the rapid deterioration of the economy,
an extension of their contracts was financed by the remaining PPF and
US$500,000 from the Line of Credit to plant the seedlings. Since IDA
decided to process the Structural Adjustment Credit and the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project simultaneously, a third PPF was approved to maintain
the presence of the two foreign firms until full funding would be made
available upon effectiveness. Visible progress in the rehabilitation of
the two EEAs has facilitated dialogue with the Government on macroeconomic
issues, since it appreciated IDA's active interest in the country's
development, and the urgency of taking measures to revitalize the cocoa
subsector.
2.   Project Management and Coordination
63.       A Project Support Unit would be established under the project to
strengthen the Government's capacity to plan and monitor activities in the
agriculture sector, initially emphasizing the cocoa subsector. PSU would
be situated in MADR (Annex 2-3) and headed by an internationally recruited
project coordinator, who would also be the project coordinator for the Line
of Credit; it would include a national deputy project coordinator and at
least one support staff who will execute the functions of accountant and
secretary. PSU, through the project coordinator, would be fully
accountable to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, who would



- 24 -
provide general directions and government position on policy issues
concerning the project. and would assign responsibilities to carry out
specific actions.  The obganlzation, staffing and functions of the PSU and
the terms of reference of the Project Coordinator and his deputy were
agreed upon at negotiations (paras 92(h) and 92(i) and Annex 3-8). The
establishment of the PSU and employment of a project coordinator and deputy
coordinator are conditions of effectiveness (para 93(b)). The project
coordinator would be financed for the first two years from the Line of
Credit. It would be determined at the interim review (para 68) as to
whether the national deputy coordinator would assume the position of
project coordinator or further financing would be required for the
continuation of the internationally-recruited project coordinator for the
full project duration.
64.       The PSU would:  (a) ensure exchange of information between the
various entities and individuals concerned with the project; (b) act as a
central point in project administration; and (c) monitor and evaluate the
progress of the project. In particular, the project coordinator would be
responsible for collating progress reports concerning the project and for
preparing consolidated reports to be submitted to the Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development, IDA and other concerned agencies, in
addition to other reports which would be issued directly by specific
project entities. Decision-making powers concerning internal policy issues
and approval of annual work plans and budgets of Bela Vista and Uba Budo
EEAs, and concerning research, food crop development, and training units
would be vested in the respective Boards or Committees. Day-to-day
management decisions would be the sole responsibility of the general
managers or directors of the above entities, on the basis of annual work
plans and budgets approved by their Supervisory Committee.
3.  Management of Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs
65.       Recognizing that one of the underlying causes for the EEAs' poor
performance was the lack of management capability, the Government invited
in June 1985 reputable firms from several countries to submit proposals to
manage the Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs.   The Government awarded the
contracts to two foreign firms to manage one plantation each. Although it
would have been financially less costly if one firm had managed both EEAs,
these two plantations would be the first of a series to be managed by
foreign firms, and the Government wanted to maintain competition and a
level of comparison between the two firms. This agreement was made with
the understanding that should additional financing be available during the
next three to five years, each firm could take charge of an additional EEA.
The contracts were negotiated in December 1985 and IDA's comments were
discussed and finalized with the Government prior to IDA credit
negotiations. The management contracts were signed on May 13, 1987.
Preparatory activities by the foreign firms are underway and financed under
the PPF and supplementary financing from the Line of Credit. The main
features of the contracts are described in Annex 3-3; two important ones
are that (a) part of each firm's remuneration would be linked to
performance, and (b) the foreign firms would train local managers for the



- 25 -
two EEAs so that they could gradually assume greater responsibilities and
ultimately be able to manage the EEA. The two EEAs would be managed at
least for 9 years by internationally recruited management firms whose
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
IDA.
66.       The two EEAs, Bela Vista and Uba Budo, would each be under the
direction of a Supervisory Committee according to procedures spelled out in
the management contracts. Each Committee would include representatives
from MADR and other concerned government ministries or institutions, the
foreign firm, and possibly foreign partners. The Committee would normally
meet at least twice a year. It would review the work plans and budgets for
the following year submitted by the EEAs' general managers. The first
annual work plans and budgets are being prepared by the foreign firms
under PPF financing. On the basis of these plans and budgets, the general
managers would have full authority to manage their respective EEAs.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by September 30 of each year
the EEAs would furnish to IDA their draft work plans and budgets for the
following year and projections for the subsequent year, as well as an
update on the five-year investment programs (para 92(j)).
67.       Although the management contracts would provide an acceptable
legal framework for EEA operation in the short-term, statutes should be
prepared to operate the EEAs legally and to open opportunities to find
investors in the future.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, by
December 31, 1987, the Government would submit to IDA for its review and
approval, draft statutes for the Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs and that
these statutes once approved would not be amended without IDA's prior
approval (para 92(k)).
4.   Interim Review
68.       An interim review would be made by IDA, the Government and key
project beneficiaries by December 31, 1989 to (a) assess progress in the
project components; (b) discuss and agree on steps to take to resolve
problems encountered during implementation; (c) assess the possibilities of
extending the role of the foreign firms to other EEAs; (d) discuss and
agree on a plan to carry out institutional reforms in applied research,
training and agricultural services; and (e) review whether the
internationally recruited project coordinator would be retained for the
full project duration. Agreement was obtained during negotiations on the
objectives and scheduling of the interim review (para 92(1)).
H.   Production, Markets and Prices
69.       Technical Aspects.  The planting schedule would include a
combination of rehabilitation of those areas in Bela Vista and Uba Budo
EEAs where existing trees are in fairly good condition. Other aroas would
be replanted with high-yielding Upper Amazon hybrids. Given the positive
results experienced in other countries, the richness of STP soil, and the



- 26 -
presence of foreign experienced firms managing the EEAs., a yield of 1,500
kg/ha in Bela Vista and 1,620 kg/ha in Uba Budo is projected by the 9th
year in the replanted areas, 900 kg/ha in Bela Vista EEA and 800 kg/ha in
Uba Budo EEA by the 6th year in the rehabilitated areas. A summary table
of the technical parameters used is presented in Annex 3-4 and details are
in Project File No. 229.376.
70.       Markets and Prices.  Although cocoa represents 90% in value of
all exports, STP only supplies 0.2% of the world market. The Government's
strategy to increase production to 7,000 tons by 1990 and 12,500 tons by
1995 would have no effect on world prices. Under the project, the
production of Bela Vista and Uba Budo ERAs would increase from an estimated
850 tons in 1986 to about 2,100 tons in 1993 and level off at 4,000 tons in
1998. Should additional financing become available over the 1988-90
period, production under this project can be expected to increase
significantly by 1995. At present all the cocoa produced is sold FOB Sao
Tome and its principal buyers are intermediaries. Traditionally the
Netherlands has been the largest importer of STP cocoa, representing 45% of
total export in 1984 and since, 1982, the Democratic Republic of Germany
has been importing a substantial amount (32% of total export in 1984) under
a barter arrangement.
71.       Future prices and revenues to be received by STP, however, depend
an the state of the world market. The Bank forecasts an increase in world
supply of 1.7% p.a. and in world demand of 1.9% p.a. from 1985 to 2000,
i.e., a rough long-run balance between supply and demand. With the v:srket
currently in an oversupply position, however, prices appear to be
continuing on the downward trend that started after the boom of the late
1970s. This trend was interrupted during the last three years, as prices
rose due to shortfalls in Western Africa production, but prices are
expected to continue falling until ai. .n4 1990, when they should rise
again.  In constant 1986 cents/kg., ...e price is expected to drop from 207
in 1986 to 184 in 1990 and rise to 202 in 1995.
72.       Producer Price.  From 1979 to 1984, producers received a fixed
price from ECOMEX of 60 Db/kg which was raised to 65 Db/kg in 1984 and 71
Db/kg in 1986. Government has confirmed its intention to abolish fixed
prices. The effects of cocoa-related taxes on the financial viability of
the two plantations would be monitored during project implementation (para
83). STP cocoa price projections are in Annex 3-9.
I.   Financial Results
1.   Introduction
73.       The present section analyzes the expected financial results after
devaluation of the two revenue-earning entities supported under the
project, respectively the Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEA..  Subject to the
investments and reforms proposed under the project, the two ERAs would be



- 27 -
financially viable and self-sustaining, although the present institut-onal
setting is not optimal. The latter point, in particular the recommendation
of changing the statutes of the EEAs from state enterprises to
mixed-economy enterprises, is discussed in para 23. The other main factors
affecting the financial results of the two EEAs are (a) the quality of its
management and its ability to operate independently, and (b) cocoa prices.
2.   Past Performance and Present Position
74.       Since 1980, the EEAs have been incurring losses and have
accumulated extensive debts from BNSTP. As of November 24, 1986, Bela
Vista owed about Db 65 million to BNSTP and Uba Budo owed about Db 69
million. The settlement of these debts, or their eventual conversion to
equity or quasi-equity, is important to ensure the long-term financial
viability of the two EEAs and to ensure that the debt service coverage
ratio would be low enough to attract lenders and investors. Conditions of
effectiveness and disbursement related to the settlement of outstanding
debts are described in paragraph 28, and other financial covenants are
detailed in paragraph 83.
3.   Future Financial Performance
75.       In these analyses, it was assumed that all external financing for
the two EEAs would be passed on by the Government as equity. The
management contracts would ensure that if loans were undertaken, the
foreign exchange required for the timely repayment of these loans would be
retained in the foreign exchange account of the EEAs (Annex 3-3, page 5).
In this case, the financing plans for both Bela Vista and Uba Budo would be
appropriately modified, with IDA's approval (para 83).
76.       Other Assumptions.  Assumptions concerning cocoa prices are given
in para 70. Revenues from cocoa sales accruing to the EEAs were taken
after direct agricultural taxes, which amount to about 19% of FOB prices.
Capital and operating costs are based on realistic estimates, including
physical contingencies of 10% on capital costs. These costs comprise all
costs directly imputable to cocoa production, except workers food crop
development and social infrastructure investments, since they are
considered part of the general social expenditure program that the
Government is implementing for the country. The costs and revenues from
other crops have been excluded because of lack of data, but the financial
analysis shows that the EEAs would be viable on cocoa production alone.
Labor costs were based on estimates of days worked, including provisions
for incentives (para 34). Prices were converted into dobras equivalent at
the exchange rate expected to prevail after devaluation in the first half
of 1987 (US$1-Db 76.55). Forecasts were made for 25 years, which cover
project implementation (5 years) and provide enough time to demonstrate the
impact of the project. They are shown in constant 1986 terms. This does
not introduce distortions in the analysis because (a) differential effects
on changing cocoa prices and inflation in STP are not expected to be



- 28 -
significant due to expected periodic adjustments in the exchange rate, and
(b) no long-term loans repayable during the forecast period are assumed in
the financing plan. Finally, taxes on income have not been taken into
account.
77.       Financial Forecasts - Bela Vista.  Detailed projections of income
statements and fund flows are in Annex 3-10. No balance sheet has been
prepared as no value for existing assets is available (para 57). Projected
financial indicators (rounded, in 1986 constant terms) are shown below:
PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS - BELA VISTA
Calendar Years
1987  1988  1989   1990  1995  2000
Cocoa Sales (Tons)              550   630   840  1,050 1,560 1,530
------US$ Million Equivalent----
Gross Sales                     0.8   0.9   1.1   1.4    2.1   2.1
Production Costs                0.7   0.7   0.7   0.8    0.9   0.9
Net Income                      0.2   0.2   0.4   0.6    1.3   1.2
Annual Cash Flow                0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2    0.7   1.0
Cumulative Cash Surplus         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2    3.5   8.8
Direct Agric. Taxes             0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4    0.5   0.4
78.       A cash build-up occurs in the projections because they do not
include provision for dividend payments and do not assume major
reinvestment of surpluses in the form of future investment expenditures.
Based on the above assumptions, the financial rate of return (FRR) on
investments in Bela Vista, calculated over a 25-year ptriod in constant
1986 terms, would be about 18%. The EEA would be financially
self-supporting from PY4 (1990).
79.       There are few financial risks.  A break-even analysis was carried
out on cocoa revenues, capital and production costs, using an opportunity
cost of capital of 10%. The additional cocoa revenues (up to 15% above
market price) that would be obtained from Improved quality have not been
calculated because of the many factors involved in their realization and,
therefore, the difficulty in quantifying them. The FRR would be reduced to
10% if, each year over the projection period of 25 years: (a) cocoa
revenues decreased by 171, or (b) capital costs increased by 21%. Foreign
exchange risks are low because practically all revenues would be derived
from the sale of exported cocoa and would be borne by the EEA.



- 29 -
80.       Financial Forecasts - Uba Budo.  Detailed projections are in
Annex 3-11 and have been prepared under the same general assumptions as for
Bela Vista. Although satisfactory, the financial results are less
promising than for Bela Vista because Uba Budo is a more degraded
plantation and would need to be substantially replanted. This increases
the relative investment costs and delays benefits. Projected financial
indicators are shown below.
PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS - UBA BUDO
Calendar Years
1987  1988  1989  1990   1995  2000
Cocoa Sales (Tons)             330   390   460   490  1,770 2,750
-----US$ Million Equivalent
Gross Sales                    0.5   0.5   0.6   0.7    2.4   3.8
Production Costs               0.6   0.5   0.5   0.5    1.1   1.2
Net Income                    (0.1)  0.0   0.1   0.2    1.3   2.6
Annual Cash Flow               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.7   2.4
Cumulative Cash Surplus        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    1.0  11.5
Direct Agric. Taxes            0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.7   0.8
81.       The same assumptions for Bela Vista (para 78) have been applied
for Uba Budo and the FRR on investments in Uba Budo, calculated over a
25-year period in 1986 constant terms, would be about 12%. Because
benefits would take longer to materialize, the EEA would be financially
self-supporting in PY8 (1994).
82.       As in the case of Bela Vista a break-even analysis (para 79) was
carried out on cocoa revenues, capital and production costs, using an
opportunity cost of capital of 10%; the additional cocoa revenues from
Improved quality has not been incorporated in the calculations. The FRR
would be reduced to 10% if, each year over the projection period of 25
years: (a) cocoa revenues decreased by 11%, or (b) capital costs increased
by 12%. The same foreign exchange risks for Bela Vista applies for Uba
Budo. Since Bela Vista's and Uba Budo's financial viability is sensitive
to price fluctuations, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would monitor cocoa taxes, which are currently 19% of cocoa
revenues, and ensure that they would not be raised beyond current levels in
order not to affect the viability of the project (para 92(m)). The current
cocoa tax system would be reviewed under the structural adtustment program
and a flexible system which would ensure that both Government and producer
share the burden of fluctuations of world prices would be established.



- 30 -
83.       Financial Covenants.  To safeguard the financial integrity of the
Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs, assurances were obtained from the Government
at negotiations (para 92(n)) that, for each of the two ERAs:
(a) no dividends would be paid without IDA's prior agreement before
December 31, 1994 to ensure that adequate funds have been
retained in the EEAs to meet their financial needs, including
operations and replacement of equipment;
(b) the ERAs would not contract any debt above US$100,000 equivalent
during any 12-month period before December 31, 1996, except for
short-term credit, without IDA's prior approval; and
(c) the EEAs would not make any new investment unless such investment
is technically, economically and financially justifiable. Any
investment above US$100,000 not approved under the annual EEA's
investment program would require IDA's prior approval.
84.       Government Cash Flow.  The Government cash flow, shown in
Annex 3-12, would always be positive. The net foreign exchange earnings
after debt service (if it were to remain full owner of the two EEAs and to
receive all surplus revenue as dividends) would average US$0.7 million in
year 5, US$2.3 million in year 10, anid US$3.9 million from year 15 onwards,
in 1986 constant prices.
J.   Economic and Social Benefits and Risks
85.       The economic rate of return (ERR) on the project's investments
over 25 years is estimated at 21X, and is based on the production-related
costs and benefits for Bela Vista and Uba Budo, which account for 66% of
total project costs. Costs were estimated on the basis of economic costs
(production and investment costs excluding taxes). A shadow exchange rate
is not taken into consideration since the recent devaluation of the dobra
eliminated much of its previous overvaluation. Requirements for further
exchange rate adjustment would be monitored under the structural adjustment
program. In parallel, agricultural workers' wages have been increased by
30%, which is the level acceptable to IDA under the proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit after devaluation. The net present value at 102
opportunity cost of capital is about US$960,000 equivalent, and the
switching value at 10% is -311 for benefits and +44% for costs. The
economic benefits have been taken from tL2 value of production at farmgate
price of the cocoa, excluding taxes. As with the financial analysis, the
costs and other benefits of the other project components have not been
included since it would be difficult to quantify their benefits although
benefits are expected from the sales of coprah and oil palm. The results
are summarized below:



- 31 -
SUMNARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(thousand dobras)
Switching Value
Economic Rate of  Net Present             at 10%
Return (t)     Value at 10%       Benefit       Cost
Bela Vista                  29            480,000           -33            49
Uba Budo                    18            480,000           -28            40
Total                   21            L62LQ02                          4
86.       About 1,500 workers working in Bela Vista and Uba Budo would
benefit directly from the project. The improvement of social
infrastructure would give them better living conditions. Workers would
benefit financially from the new bonus system that they would receive in
addition to their salaries. Furthermore, with technical and financial
assistance to develop food crops, they would save on the purchase of food
and their overall nutrition would Improve. Workers would have access to
basic consumer goods through the general stores to be re-established by the
foreign firms, and other stores which would be supplied through Imports
financed under the proposed Structur_' Adjustment Credit (para 34).
Employees of the other EEAs and up to 400 private producers would benefit
financially from the increased revenues resulting from the project. In
additiov, considerable indirect benefits could be expected from production
increases in other crops grown on these plantations and from quality
improvements in cocoa production elsewhere on the islands. Finally, a
basis would be established for increased privatization in STP.
87.       Risks.  There are no unusual risks in the project.  Although
world cocoa prices have recently increased in dollar terms, they are
considerably lower than those in the early eighties. Nevertheless, the
sensitivity analysis shows that even with a 10% lower projection of prices
over the whole life of the project, the project's ERR would still be 17Z,
and with a 20% decrease the ERR would be 14%. If costs should increase by
10%, the ERR would still be 18%, and with an increase of 20%, the ERR would
be 15%.
88.       A possible technical risk would be the use of high-yielding
hybrid varieties for replanting. Although they have been successful in
other countries (yields of up to 2.2 tons/ha in Papua New Guinea compared
with 1.6 tons/ha assumed under the project), they have not been tested on a
large scale in STP. During project preparation, soil analyses carried out
by IRCC (para 62), showed that STP soil is very rich and should be highly
receptive to the hybrids. A nursery was prepared under PPF financing and
the seedlings were planted in December 198F. The trees are adapting well.
Only one EEA (Uba Budo) would undargo extensive but carefully phased
replanting. The total replanted area under the project would represent
less than 10% of the cocoa production area in STP and would be consiLdered
on a pilot scale. As many of the trees are old and more and more countries



- 32 -
adopt the new hybrids, this may be the only alternative for STP to be
competitive on the world market. The new technology does require intensive
management and increased inputs since the trees are grown without shade and
are more susceptible to diseases. To minimize this risk, the management
contracts with the foreign firms are fcr 9 years with an option for a
five-year renewal.
89.       Possible delays in implementing Government's reforms appropriate
for promoting an economic environment favorable to investment (para 23) are
other risks. The initial devaluation would make the cocoa sector viable.
The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, which would be implemented in
parallel with the project, would carefully monitor the implementation of
the measures to restore macroeconomic equilibria (para 24).
90.       Environmental Aspects.  The project would be implemented with due
regard to the environment and to occupational health. An Imminent
environmental problem could arise from the use of agro-chemicals and from
their concentration in streams.
91.       To minimize these risks, the Government would (a) refrain from
using chemicals considered by IDA to be detrimental to the environment;
(b) before September 30, 1988, submit to IDA for its review and ai.lroval a
plan to monitor and control chemical residues in streams and other parts of
the biosphere; and (c) at all times, cause the foreign firms to train
workers in Bela Vista and Uba Budo on the safe use of chemicals.
Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations (para 92(o)). In
addition, a study concerning the overall status of STP's ecology would be
carried out under the project (Annex 3-5).
IV. AGREEMENTS REDACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
92.       Agreements were reached at negotiations regarding:
(a) implementation of measures ensuring that the EEAs have (i)
management autonomy; (ii) flexible wage system; and (iii)
flexibility in recruiting and dismissing staff (paras 12, 21, 34
and 72);
(b) the pursuit of project objectives beyond the five-year period
(para 26);
(c) the timely payment of salaries to workers (para 34);
(d) the workers' housing situation (para 37);
(e) review of the system of import and sale of inputs and equipment
to smallholders (para 49);
(f) terms of reference for studies and consultancy services
(para 51);



- 33 -
(g) the submission of accounts and audit reports to IDA (para 56);
(h)  the functions of the PSU (para 63);
(i) terms of reference for the project coordinator and deputy project
coordinator (para 63);
(j) the submission of EEA draft work plans and budgets (para 66);
(k) statutes for the Bela Vista and Uba Budo EEAs (para 67);
(1) objectives and scheduling of an interim review by December 31,
1989 (para 68);
(m) monitoring of cocoa sales tax rates (para 82);
(n) financial covenants (para 83); and
(o) the reduction of environmental risks (para 91).
93.       Conditions of effectiveness would concern:
(a) the effectiveness of the management contract with one of the two
foreign firms, except for its cross-effectiveness condition with
the IDA credit and the down-payment for start-up activities, the
settlement of outstanding debts, and preparation of an acceptable
accounting system of the EEA concerned (para 28); and
(b) the establishment of the Project Support Unit and employment of
its coordinator and deputy coordinator (para 63).
94.       Conditions of disbursement would be that the other foreign firm
and EEA would have met IDAts conditions of credit effectiveness (para 28
and 93(a)).
95.       With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of US$7.9 million equivalent.
WAPAD
May 1987



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-
U n
wFH  
-                   F -~~ro"



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABIUTATION PROJECT
TYPICAL ORGANIZAMON CHART FOR A STATE ENTERPRISE FOR AGRICULTURE AND UVESTOCK (EEA)
* UMSNU           PMDVSUOU
-~_                    I
..                            [en~~~~~~A"U
WAPAD
February 1987                                               WORLO BANK 30339C



cn 
-4        H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
i-i-4
>-                             I
I
tJ      w >~~~~~~~
z                t



- 37 -                            Annex 2-1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
HISTORICAL EVENTS
1471      The Portuguese arrive on the islands.
1501      Introduction of sugarcane.  Between 1511 and 1520, the price of
sugar doubled on the European market.
1644      End of sugar boom.  Massive departures to Brazil.
1855      Introduction of cocoa on Sao Tome.
1857      Introduction of tobacco, then cotton (1860), bread fruit (1862),
cinchona (1869), millet and pepper (1870).
1875      April 29:  Abolition of slavery.  Importation of workers.
1880      Production: 1,718 tons of coffee and 467 tons of cocoa.  Cocoa is
planted on a large scale. Population: 21,000 inhabitants on the
two islands.
1907      International debate on forced labor in Sao Tome.  Cocoa boycott.
1908      The largest British chocolate producer goes on a fact-finding
mission to Sao Tome. Production: 23,000 t of cocoa and 1,100 t
of coffee.
1913      Sao Tome is the world's largest cocoa producer:  37,000 tons.
1919      Production:  35,000 t of cocoa and 400 t of coffee.
1960      Production:  10,200 t of cocoa and 250 t of coffee.
1970      Production:  10,000 t of cocoa.
1972      Foundation of the Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome and
Principe (MLSTP).
1975      July 12:  Independence
December 12: The Constitution becomes effective.
1977      September 8:  Monetary reform.  Establishment of official
currency: the Dobra, pegged to the SDR.
1978      STP becomes member of IMF/World Bank.
1985      STP holds a Donors Round Table Conference and presents its
Development Plan (1986-1990). Donors pledge coordinated support
to STP's development efforts.
Source: Ministry of Cooperation, December 1985.
WAPAD
May 1987



-4      l
i ~-4
Iz  I



39                             Annex 2-2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHAILITATION PRQJECT
PRODUCTION CONSTRAINTS
Two types of technical constraints (short- and medium- to
long-term) would be addressed under the project by strengthening the
management of the EEAs, training local management staff and providing
laborers with incentives.
Short-Term Constraints
Inefficient maintenance of the plantations results in trees and
shoots competing with weeds, and in brush encroachement starting a few
meters from the feeder roads. Depredator insects multiply and provide
infectious niches, especially for Phytophtora, in the unpicked rotten pods.
Since all plantations grow under high forest canopy, shade is not
controlled. Irregular sunlight spots favor weeds and depredator parasites.
However, the most severe problem is excessive cocoa pruning which results
in a lack of auto-shading for soil protection and photosynthetic activity.
The insufficient sucker removal leads to the growth of many
shoots, notably during blossom and fruit setting time, which in turn leads
to the occurence of numerous parasites and difficult harvest. The
Inefficient plant protection is due to insecticides and pesticides applied
with old and disrepaired equipment which does not provide adequate
coverage, and also tractor-mounted spraving equipment used only along
feeder roads.  Protec. on against black pod is inadequate.  Chemical
treatment is not efficient due to few sprayings and the inappropriate
application of fungicides.
The lack of support to private smallholders has forced them to
practice cropping without inputs, plant protection products, and equipment
(sprayers). Nevertheless, plantations are well maintained, and
availability of these Items and, technical support would some enable them
to increase their production significantly.
Medium- to Long-Term Constraints
The insufficient tree density (400-900 instead of 1,000), the
reduced production due to the old age of rilantations (25-60 years), and the
genetic disparity of trees which results in heterogeneous products would
justify the replanting of all plantations. The cost and hardship of
cropping on steep slopes justify the elimination of cocoa trees from these
areas. The diversification of some plantations toward bananas, plantains
and tarot cultivation calls for a rural rezoning within the EEAs and
clearly defined procedures concerning the allocation and utilization of
laborers' food crop plots. These recommendations are included in the
proposed project.
Further details on production constraints are given in Project
File No. 228.967.
WAPAD
May 1987



-                        HI
s~~~~~~~ G
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-4 &    " I
I
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 41 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 3
SAO TOME AMD PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAIN INSTITUTIONS
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (NADR) is the
main institution in charge of the agriculture sector whose production comes
mostly from the EEAs. Since cocoa production affects all aspects of the
economy, other government institutions are also responsible for policies
affecting the BEAs. Rowever, a lack of well defined responsibilities among
them has resulted in inefficiencies, with negative effects on cocoa
production.
The functions of the main institutions responsible for the cocoa
subsector are as follows:
(a) The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is responsible
for the overall development policy in agriculture (except
fisheries), for the administrative and technical supervision of
the EEAs, and for the provision of equipment, spare parts and
inputs to the plantations (MADR's Organization Chart is on page 3
of this Annex).
(b) The Ministry of Planniag which is in charge of the country's
overail economic planning the revenues from cocoa sales is a key
determinant In the planning process.
(c) The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of STP is
responsible for financial planning and its State Enterprises'
Finance Division supervises the EEAs. It monitors revenues and
expenditures, advises on accounting procedures, and controls
compliance with the planning targets of production, expenditures
and Investments for the only bank in the country which operates
as the Central Bank, the Treasury, and a comercial and
development bank. At the commercial level, it deals with credit,
external debt and the current accounts of the EEAs, which it
occasionally assists financially.
(d) The Ministry of Commerce, Ind-tstry and Tourism is also
responsible for ECOMIN, which sells imports purchased from ECOMEX
at officially set prices, and for ECOMEX, which is in charge of
exports and imports.
(e) The Ministry of Cooperation is responsible for all STP's foreign
policy and diplomatic activities, as well as for dialoguing with
bilateral and multilateral development organizations and seeking
their financing for development projects in STP.



T
- 42 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 3
(f) The Agricultural Experimental Station of POTO was established in
1960 and functions as a department of MADR. It is responsible
for applied research and technical support to the sector. Its
Impact has been limited. It has received some technical
assistance from FAO and laboratory equipment from the Dutch
Government. However, little other investment has been made and
the administrative building and annexes of technical offices and
laboratories are in poor condition and lack equipment. At
present there are some 70 positions staffed with underqualified
personnel, and morale is low due to poor working conditions and
lack of funds to carry out the work.
(g) The Mesquita Project for food crop extension, which is not
formally established, falls under MADR's responsibilitye It is,
however, expected to become a permanent center for food crop
extension In 1987. Since its Inception in 1981, FAC/AFVP has
disbursed FF 12.1 million for the development of 100 ha of
vegetables, provision of seedlings, inputs and tools for small
farmers, and technical assistance for extension services. A
further FF 2.2 million has been approved to extend the project
through the beginning of 1987. A third phase is in the process
of being approved to cover a three-year period (1987-89) to
increase extension activities, particularly to work with those
plantations receiving external assistance (Uba Budo, Bela Vista,
and Santa Margarida). It will also start some agricultural
experimentation and multiplication of seeds.
Note:     There has been frequent reorganizations of the ministries and the
above composition represents the latest reorganization
(January 19, 1987).
VAPAD
Nay 1987



_-3                 Annex 2-3
Pa8e 3 of 3
i W~~I                        I,iSa
ilH                                  IIX



-I H
rn        I
X-i-4
z    
I
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 45 -                         Annex 3-1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA RMTAbTLITATION PROJECT
THE BELA VISTA STATE ENTERPRISE
The Bela Vista state enterprise is located in the northeastern
part of Sao Tome, about 6 km from the capital (Map IBRD 19574). The soil
is generally fertile and the topography is rather flat, with a few peaks in
the southwest. It is one of the larger enterprises of the country, covering
about 4,000 ha, of which the 3,200 ha under cultivation consist of 2,100 ha
of cocoa, 500 ha of oil palm, 450 ha of coconut and a little over 150 ha of
food crops. Although Bela Vista was the largest cocoa producer until 1982,
it ranked only fifth by 1984, because of rainfall shortages that year and
the breakdown of its irrigation system.
Before independence, Bela Vista was under Portuguese ownership
and management. The plantations were young, well-irrigated and drained,
and their density vell-controlled. Irrigation is being used again since
1984, thanks to the new manager whose 20 years of experience in STP
plantations familiarized him with the adverse effects of deficient
rainfalls (droughts of 1982-84) on Bela Vista production.
An analysis of production data for 1980-84 shows that:
(a) In 1980, Bela Vista was the largest cocoa producer of all the
EMAs, with 1,077 tons (or about 15Z of STP production) and an
average yield of 512 kg/ha, compared with disparate averages
within the enterprises of 220 kg/ha in the Gratidao dependency
and over 1.000 kg/ha in the Vale Flor dependency.
(bl During 1982-84, when rainfall shortages were not compensated with
irrigation, Bela Vista production plummeted, especially in the
lowlands (Vale Flor, Praia Nazare) here rain deficits were most
severe.
(c) Production in rugged zones (Gratido, Santarem) is low due to soil
erosion, low maintenance levels, and difficulty of access;
therefore, these plantations should be eliminated, as recommended
under the project.
Bela Vista production is hindered by the same constraints facing
other EEAs, such as insufficient management capacity and lack of funds to
purchase inputs and machinery. It is particularly affected by (a) the
marginal rainfall level, and (b) the low productivity of the labor force.
Rainfall shortages can be resolved at minor costs by rehabilitating the
gravity irrigation system. To alleviate these problems the project would
finance a foreign firm to undertake the management of Bela Vista and alsi
the investment program. Labor productivity is low due to the present lack
of Incentives (2.5 ha of cocoa and 3.8 ha of plantations per laborer). To
stimulate productivity, the project would provide monetary and social
incentives to workers to improve their standard of living.
More details on the Bela Vista state enterprise are given in
Project File No. 228.967.
WAPAD
May 1987



0   z
H9    -
1Ev 



47 -                 ~~~~~Annex 3-2
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE UBA BUD0 STATE ENTERPRISE
The Uba Budo state enterprise is located in the eastern part of
Sao Tone, south of the capital (Nap IBRD 19574). The soils are fertile and
the topography has more relief than In Bela Vista. Uba Budo is the second
state enterprise in the country in terms of area under cultivation, i.e.,
almost 3,400 ha, of which 2,300 ha of cocoa, 450 ha of oil palm, 400 ha of
coconuts, and 250 ha of food crops and other cash crops. Its cocoa
production is below average (130 kg). Although rainfall is more favorable
to cocoa production than In Bela Vista, simple irrigation systems could be
considered in the lowlands as recommended under the project.
Unlike Bela Vista, Uba Budo was divided into many enterprises
before independence. Their merging in 1975/76 resulted in a more dispersed
network of dependencies, production systems and infrastructures.
A recent analysis of Uba Budo's area, production and yields for
1983 shows that cocoa plantations have somewhat deteriorated. In 1983,
only three dependencies had an average yield above 200 kg/ha. In four
others the average yield was below 100 kg/ha, probably due to deficient
maintenance and insufficient plant protection.
Technical constraints are the same as in Bela Vista, except for
the more severe labor shoz-tage (4 ha of cocoa and 6 ha of plantation per
productive laborer). The project would finance a foreign firm to undertake
the management of Uba Budo and the investment program to rehabilitate the
plantation. It would provide the same incentives for laborers as in Bela
Vista.
More details on the Uba Budo state enterprise are given in
Project File No. 228.967.
WAPAD
May 1987



.0. z
I
"-,l
H   -
IF 
Ev        A,1^



- 49 -
Annex 3-3
Page I of 8
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAIN FEATURES OF THE MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
Two separate management contracts were negotiated in December 1985
signed on May 13, 1987 between the "Francisco Mantero - Agricultura e
Com6rcio Internacional, S.A." and the Government of STP for Bela Vista ERA,
and between SOCFINCO-FRANCE, S.A., and the Government of STP for Uba Budo
EEA. The contracts are between the foreign firms and the respective EEAs
with a guarantee from Government. Initially, the original version of the
contracts Included a preparatory phase of five months to be effective in
March 1986, and a full phase of ten years. But since IDA could not endorse
the draft contracts while the financing package remained Incomplete, and
the macroeconomic distortions in the country unresolved, separate
short-term contracts have been prepared between the same parties and are
being financed under the PPF and supplemented by the Line of Credit for
Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization (Cr. 1590-STP); activities have
started as scheduled. The main features of the contracts of the
preparatory phase and those of the full-term contracts incorporating IDA' a
comments are described below.
First Preparatory Phase Contract
This five-month contract was not interpreted by either party as a
commitment to enter into the full phase contract.  Under this contract the
foreign firm:
1.  prepared and presented a full implementation study of the
proposed rehabilitation and modernization program of the EEA,
which included a full assessment of the existing trees,
infrastructure, equipment and personnel, and a work program for
the following five years;
2.   prepared and presented a detailed work plan and budget for the
first year of the project;
3.   based on the review of existing personnel and future needs, held
discussions with the Government on the course of action required
to ensure the employment of the necessary number and right
categories of staff at the start of the full scale project;
4.   in the case of Bela Vista, obtained an endorsement of the
technical proposal by a reputable scientific Institute
specializing in cocoa, acceptable to the Government;
5.   established a nursery which would cover the needs of the first
year requirement for replanting.



- 50 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 8
Second and Third Preparatory Phase Contract
Since the project processing was suspended because of t:e rapidly
deteriorating situation of the economy and the need to review the
macroeconomic situation of the country, two extensions of six months each
for the preparatory phase contracts were approved. Under these contracts
the foreign firms are required to:
1.   clear the land, plant the seedlings and maintain planted areas;
and
2.   set up an accounting system which would be acceptable to
external financiers by July 1987.
Full Phase Contract
Subject to the satisfactory completion of the preparatory phase
and availability of financing, the main features of the full-length
contract are described below.
Objective
Rehabilitation of the agroindustrial complex of the EEA and its
optimal exploitation on a sustainable basis.
.Duration of Contract
The contract is of 9-year duration with an option for a 5-year
renewal.
Activities
The principal activities for the foreign firm to reach the
objective described above are:
1.   to rehabilitate and modernize the plantation (including the
improvement of existing infrastructures, renovation of existing
ones and purchase of new equipment), using technologies which are
modern and most appropriate to the plantation and Saotomean
conditions;
2.   to provide technical assistance and training;
3.   to rehabilitate and replant cocoa;
4.   to study, recuperate and plant other parallel or complementary
erops and food crops as appropriate, using socioeconomic
critieria; and
5.   to market the production of the plantation.



- N1 -
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 8
Obligations of the Foreign Firm
The foreign firm's obligations are:
1.   to take full management responsiblity of the ERA and execute the
specific sub-activities encompassed in the activities described
above;
2.   to transfer technology through technical assistance and training
so that the ERA staff will be progressively in a position to
operate the plantation and market the cocoa efficiently;
3.   to take into account at all times the environmental aspects of
their activities; and
4.   to enter int. a formal agreement with a reputable scientific
institute specializing in cocoa, and to obtain information on the
most advanced and appropriate technology to apply to the EEA.
Obligations of the Respective ERAs
The principal responsiblities of the EEA are:
1.   to ensure that all the nscessary funds specified in, and approved
under, the annual budget for the execution of the work plan will
be made available (in an account In the name of the EEA at BN$STP)
to the foreign firm to utilize in the name of the EREA;
2.   to ensure that at least 302 of the value of sales of the ERA in
convertible currency will be made accessible to the foreign firm
(the mechanism for this is described below under foreign
exchange);
3.   to ensure, to the extent possible. that payments from external
financiers will be made directly to the foreign firm and to the
external suppliers as appropriate; and
4.   to provide at all times relevant and necessary information and
assistance (particularly In the selection of local staff) for the
successful execution of the activities of the foreign firm.
Authority of the Foreign Firm
The ERA will entrust the foreign firm with all the necessary
direct authority to manage the plantation efficiently and without
Interference from the Government in its day-to-day operations. For the
procurement of contracts funded by external financiers, the foreign firm
will be bound by the regulations of the financiers concerned. Within the
bounds of these regulations, the foreign firm will give preference to local
suppliers. The foreign firm will have the right:



- 52 -
Annex 3-3
Page 4 of 8
1.   to market all the cocoa produced directly in the name of the EEA;
2.   to recruit and discharge personnel at all categories, assign
their duties, set the conditions of employment and remuneration
including the establishment of a bonus system. Also, exercise
the authority to discipline personnel in conformity with existing
STP labor legislation and with labor rules that the foreign firm
may establish;
3.   to make purchase orders and collect rent in the name of the EEA;
4. within the limits of the approved budget, to purchase directly or
transfer goods and other items, namely (but not limited to)
equipments, materials, inputs and petrol;
5.   to open, make deposits, and withdraw from bank accounts foreseen
in the contracts in the name of the ERA; and
6.   to receive all sums due to the EEA and make payments in the name
of the EEA within the duration of the contract.
Remuneration of the Foreign Firm
The contract is divided into an investment phase of 4 years and
an operational phase of 5 years. The fees payable are broken down as
follows:
1.   The Investment Phase
(a) a fixed annual fee on a declining scale (this was set under
the assumption that the number of permanent expatriate staff
would decrease as they are gradually replaced by trained
national staff);
(b) a variable fee which is set at a fixed sum payable per
hectare planted or rehabilitated (the definitions of what is
considered planted and rehabilitated are spelled out in the
contract); and
(c) a bonus payment in one contract and a withholding of a
portion of the fee in the other contract have been included,
which will be payable only at the end of the fifth year upon
the satisfactory performance of the foreign firm (the
definition of satisfactory performance is spelled out in the
contract);



~ 53          ~            Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 8
2.   The Operational Phase
(a) 32 of the FOB value of sales over the incremental
production, with the base year being 1986.;
(b) 10% of gross profits calculated before depreciation,
financial charges, reserves and taxes; and
(c) a minimum that would be payable if the sum of (a) and (b) is
below that minimum.
3.   Miscellaneous
(a) relocation costs of the expatriates; and
(b) housing and transportation for the expatriates.
Marketing
The foreign firm will be fully responsible for the marketing of
the production of the EEA. For this purpose:
1.   it will seek at all times the buyer with the highest rate, obtain
Government's previous approval, and process all the necessary
transactions to complete the sale;
2.   it will receive a commission of 1.8% of the FOB sale price; and
3.   it will be required to report and record the transaction
imediately after it has been made, and these records will be
subject to periodic audits.
Foreign Exchange
A portion of the proceeds from sales will be deposited into the
accounts of the ERA, in BNSTP and another portion in an account abroad,
according to the follvwing conditions:
1.   at least 302 of the value of sales would be deposited in a freely
convertible currency in an account abroad;
2.   if there is continued lack of consumer goods from local channels
for the workers, a specified amount (to be previously agreed upon
by the Supervisory Committee in consultation with Government),
will be retained in this account for the import of these goods
directly by the foreign firm under EEA's name;
3.   if the EEA undertakes a eommercial loan, the required amount for
timely debt service will also be retained in this account;



- 54 -
Annex 3-3
Page 6 of 8
4.   the foreign firm should abstain from any gains that could be
obtained by associating itself with banks abroad;
5.   the deposited value will be designated for the exclusive use of
the project; and
6.   the foreign firm will have to submit annually to BNSTP the
statements from the account abroad, so that BNSTP can monitor the
foreign exchange flow.
Local Personnel
The following applies to the foreign firm:
1.   it will not be responsible for the continuing employment or for
settling past claims of personnel actually employed on the
plantation;
2.   it will choose, following objective criteria, those staff and
workers who should continue in the service of the EEA and others
who would be recruited;
3. it will pay the personnel in the name of the EEA;
4. it will have access to obtaining, in the name of the ERA,
necessary supplies locally and abroad if the conditions specified
in the above section on foreign exchange (point 2) prevail, which
will be sold to workers through a general store that would be
re-established;
5.   it will not hare the authority to expel retirees presently living
on the plantation, without the express authorization of the
competent authorities; and
6.   it will establish a personnel policy that will be adequate to
improve the qualitative and quantitative production and
productivit!y through incentives, while observing the minimum
legal limits.
Internationally Recruited Staff
The following are obligations of the foreign firm with regards to
expatriate staff:
1.   in order to properly manage the plantation, the foreign firm
will be required (within the fees payable to it) to employ at
least five management staff (general manager, plantation manager,
director of industrial and mechanical sector, director of
administration and finance, and supplies and procurement chief).



- 55 -
Annex 3-3
Page 7 of 8
At least eight supervision missions by adequately qualified
personnel from the firm's headquarters will be made per year
during the first four years, and at least five supervision
missions per year for the remaining five years;
2.   the foreign firm will select at least one counterpart for each of
the management staff who will be trained to eventually replace
them;
3.   the foreign firm will submit the curriculum vitae of their
candidates for the approval of the EEA's Supervisory Committee
and the financiers;
4.   the foreign firm and its management staff will be prohibited from
engaging in any other professional activities not specified under
the contract without specific authorization from the Supervisory
Committee;
5.   if for any reason a management staff prematurely terminates his
contract in STP, the firm will be responsible to fill that post
within 60 days with a candidate of equivalent qualifications
whose CV will have to be submitted to the Supervisory Committee;
and
6.   the Supervisory Commitee will have the righc to request the
substitution of any employee of the firm vho has been found to be
acting against the morals, good customs, and laws in force or to
be incompetent.
Reporting Requirements
The foreign firm will be required to provide full documentation
and reports on all its activities. This will include quarterly and annual
progress reports.
Supervisor_ Committee
A five-member Supervisory Committee will be established in each
ENA (three designated by the Government and two by the foreign firm) and a
chairman will be elected. The Committee will meet at least twice a year
and will have authority to:
1.   review and give its opinion on the annual work plan and budget
submitted by the foreign firm;
2.   at the end of each year, assess the performance of the foreign
firm against the approved work plan and budget approved for that
year; and
3.   review and advise on any issue that may arise on policies
Internal to the EEA.



- 56 -
Annex 3-3
Page 8 o8
Termination Clause
The following are conditions for the termination of the contract:
1.   in the case of "force majeure", the concerned party will
Immediately notify the other, and a meeting of the Supervisory
Committee will be held to seek an acceptable solution to both
parties;
2.   if either party fails to meet its obligations under good faith,
the faulty party will receive written notice from the other party
and will have to remedy the situation (in 60 days in the case of
the foreign firm and 90 for Government); its failure to do so
will be considered suff'cient grounds for cessation of contract;
3.   either party may turn to the International Center for the
Settlement of Investment Disputes in Washington for arbitration
if an amicable solution cannot be found by the parties concerned;
and
4.   the foreign firm may transfer some of its rights and obligations
to a third pirty, subject to written agreement by the EEA and
provided that the foreign firm remains solely responsible for the
good execution of the project.
Conditions of Effectiveness of the Contract
The following are conditions of effectiveness of the contract:
1. delineation of the territory of the EEA;
2.   obtention of adequate financing for the proposed investment
program in the EEA; and
3.   official publicatioa of the legal instrument approving the
contract.
WAPAD
May 1987



- 57                                           Annex 3-4
Page I ot 2
SA 101U AND MPRXNC!
CUOQ, URAITTAON   PUJ?
hRC1ICAL PROWCTIOlN PARAMRS
Cuhative Coco Pla oting  chdule
Belta Vista                              YRI              n2             113            TR4           tRS
eplualtig                               60             120             180            180           180
Penetficatton                           66             132             198            198           198
Rehabilitation                       1,357           1,357           1,357          1,357          1,357
Maintenae before replanting
or deaification                      22             ,126               0              0             0
Total
Lba 3a,do
Replasting                             1N0            50              900          1,300         1,500
Desfication                             20             300             300            300           300
Mainteance before replanting         1.680.          1.40              600            200             0
Total                    'J                                  J"
Yields k
Bela Vista                     R2   YR       1      15  Y6             YRB  YR9-10 YR-1 Y-4 YR11 Y5 16-25
eplaAnting           200   100    50   150   360  600    900 1,300 1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,600
Densification        280   350   400   500   700  900 1,000  1,100  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200 1,100
Rebabibitation       330   450   650   750   850  850   850-  850   850   800   750   700   700
Maintenance before
r5plantiag         300   350   400   425
Uba Budo
Repnting              90    70    50   300   675  940 1,200  1,4710 1,620 1,680 1,6   1,680  1,680
Densification        150   300   600   800   800  S00   800   800   800   800   800   800   800
Mtinteance before
replanting and
dentification     17S   250   300   350
Cost and Price Peters
Cost      ousan  aobra
Bela Vista               'R1                             112      -       R3           YR4            IRS
Replantiag                              78              37              37            38             38
Deneification                           63              47              42            32             31
Rehabilitation                          35              35              25            25             25
Maintenance before replanting           15              14              15            15             15
,Uba udo
Rap?anting                              45              18              18            27             32
Deoaification                           43              33              39            41             41
Maintenance before replantin
nd densflcation                       22              24              25            29             29



Bela Vista                                                 m 132  n u I  135  TV6 137  ,  1  10 TMD               TM 313   1314   1     U35    36  11725
Replanting            12      18     21    16      48      81     126     168      222     2S5     270    270    270    270    270    276    28
Dawific.tfcp          10     42      66     as    106     139     172      19      218     231     230    236    23      235    238    231    22
Nlalteance befote
replantieg           76     44       -      -      -       - '  '  '  '  ' '
lihabilUt tic        448     I      S8"2  1.018 1.153   LI.S3   1.153 L.153  _1.153   1.2$i   10 6  1.086  . OM   I oM
Total Productican &Z   W Lu a5a                                       a    .aa'IaM UM AAA                            121UN2' 1.1 WU    2i MU  M
,Uba Btd
Replanting             9     43      69    114    254   .518      696   1,333   1,741   2,072   2,316  2,454  2,50   2,526  2,520  2,520  2,520
Densficattoa          45      90    180    240    240     240     240      240     240     240     240    240    240    240    240    240    240        0
tatntenaace before
replaastg           29      300    240    140                   -                 _         * -           . -   _       _        -   _          -
Total Productim    a 3      i    *1   g         iff           14       1.W    12       21    32 La       2*  3d    3dM   3.3W   26i   3.32
WAPAD
February 1987
Ill



- 59 -
Page 1`of 10
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REAUIITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND STUDIES
A4ricultural Credit
Summary Background
At present. there is only one banking institution in Sao Tome and
Principe (STP), the Banco Nacional de SIP (BNSTP). It serves as the
country's Central, Cowmercial, and Development Bank. Among its objectives,
the project would seek to promote the restructuring of the Agricultural
State Enterprises to operate as Independent entities paving the vay for
their eventual partial or total privatization and encourage private farmers
in investing In agriculture. Government has taken steps towards this with
the promulgation of an investment code in March 1986. A further step would
be to develop an agricultural credit system to serve the investment needs
of the agricultural enterprises and private farm4rs. An agricultural
credit study would be undertaken under the project for this purpose.
Objectives
The study would:
(a) examine the role that credit could play in the development of the
agricultural sector and identify the sub-sectors and tyrpe of
potential recipients for agricultural credit;
(b) formulate objectives for the short, medium, and long term for an
agricultural credit program, and indicate the priorities attached
to these objectives;
(c) assess the need for establishing a mechanism for providing
agriculture credit, such as the establishment of an agricultural
credit section In BNSTP;
(d) prepare a detailed proposal concerning the organization of the
mechanism recomended in (c), specifying the hierarchichal and
functional linkages, and the personnel needs for the next five
years;
(e) Identify and prepare a training program for the personnel
required to implement the proposed agricultural credit program;



\                                  - ~~~~~~~~~~~60'-
-60-                        Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 10
Revlew the current marketing process including the timing and
cost involved in each of the steps indicating:
(a) in general terms the procedures which would be followed for the
funetioning of the agricultural credit program (in particular the
arialysis of loan requests, the monitoring and control of
operations, and the recuperation of debts);
(b) the criteria for granting loans to different types of
beneficiaries (agricultural enterprises and private farmers), the
interest rates, the reimbursement period, the guarantees that
would eventually be demanded of the borrowers, appropriations of
foreign exchange to finance imports, and of local currency to
finance local expenditures;
(c)  the technical assistance necessary (with the terms of reference
for the principal experts proposed), during the next five years,
in order to permit the agricultural credit section to operate
satisfactorily and train its personnel;
(d) an estimate, over the next five years of the expenses linked to
the reinforcement and the functioning of the agricultural credit
program, including the technical assistance, the local personnel,
training, the renovation and equipping of the office and
operational costs; and
(e) a calendar of actions proposed.
Qualifications
An agricultural credit specialist with proficiency in Portuguese
or with working knowledge of Portuguese with proficiency in Spanish or
French.
Duration
It is estimated that:a total of 7 weeks will be required, with 4
weeks in STP and the remainder for r-avel and report writing.
Reporting
The consultant should provide fifteen (15) detailed final report
covering all the above points to the Project Coordinator who will dispatch
them to the appropriate recipients.
WAPAD
May 1987



- 61 -
Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 10
Cocoa Marketing
Suumary Background
At present ECOMEX, which is -n.der the MiniiAry of Foreign Trade,
is in charge of all aspects of cocoa marketing. It purchases the cocoa at
a fixed price from the Agricultural State Enterprises. It is responsible
for the transport, storage and phytosanitary protection, sales to the
foreign buyers, placement at customs, and shipment of cocoa. Given its
marginal position in the cocoa market and its isolation, STP might not be
receiving the optimum price for its cocoa in terms of grading, stock level,
invoicing, timing of sales and choice of buyer. A study would le
undertaken under the project that would assess the present rarketing
process of cocoa in STP and review the options available in each if the
steps involved for improving revenues from cocoa sales.
Objectives
Review the current marketing process, including the timing and
costs involved in each of the steps indicating:
(a) how and by whom cocoa is graded at the time of bagging both with
the Agricultural Enterprises and private farmers;
(b) when and how the sales transactions are made with ECOMEX, and
their form and timing of payments to the enterprises and private
farmers;
(c)  how transportation arrangements are made, who makes them, what
are the costs, and how are they accounted for;
(d) the condition of storage facilities, at what level stocks are
maintained and how they are regulated, how phytosanitary
treatment is applied and what chemicals are used, what are the
costs of storage and treatment, and how they are accounted for;
(e) the state of the port facilities and their efficiency and
capacity in the handling of cocoa, how cocoa is transported, and
loaded on to the ships, what are the costs, and how are they
accounted for; and         .
(f) how ECOMEX negotiates prices with traders, what the terms of
payment are, how the invoicing is done, how the funds are
credited.
Government has agreed to permit the free marketing of cocoa.
Under the proposed management contracts with the two foreign firms managing
Bela Vista and Uba Budo, each firm would be responsible for the marketing
of the cocoa of the plantation under its charge. The study should review
each firms' plan on how it intends to market the cocoa from the plantation
under its charge. The study should provide recommendations to Government
as to how it could monitor the transactions and ensure that maximum
benefits are retained by the country. The study will examine:



- 62 -
Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 10
(a) how the two firms plan to market the cocoa;
(b) what arrangement would be most feasible in terms of ensuring that
there is no under-invoicing or sub-grading;
(c) whether the foreign firms should continue to utilize Government
services for transportation, storage and port facilities, and, if
so, what would be the appropriate charges;
(d) how to minimize deterioration in quality and loss in the internal
transportation, storage and port handling;
(e) how Government can set up a system of quality control, train
people to be supervisors, and ensure that the cocoa exported is
of uniform quality, meets internationally accepted norms, and
that cocoa in storage is properly fumigated;
(f) whether the other plantations and private farmers should sell
their cocoa production to the two foreign firms if they offer a
better price, than to other competitors including ECOMEX and, if
so, how this should be done;
(g) the possibility of private traders establishing themselves in STP
and the advantages and disadvantages of this to the country;
(h) the optimal procedures for financial transactions to maximize
actual cash receipts to the country; and
(i) any other relevant cocoa marketing issues for STP.
Requirements
It is estimated that an expert in cocoa marketing would be
required for a total of 8 weeks with 4 weeks in STP and the remainder for
travel, gather external information, and for drafting the report.
Qualifications            f
At least 10 years experience in cocoa marketing internationally,
and experience in all the steps involved in the cocoa marketing process.
Lansuages
Fluency in Portuguese preferred, otherwise French or Spanish
required; English recommended in addition.
WAPAD
May 1987



- 63 -Annex 3-5
Page 5 of 10
Crops Diversification
Summary Background
At present STP's economy is overwhelmingly dependent on cocoa
which represented about 90% of export revenues in 1985. Food production is
principally limited to bananas, bread fruit, palm oil and root crops.
There is a small but increasing amount of vegetables grown by individuals
with the assistance of a pilot project (Mesquita) financed by the French
Aid and Cooperation Fund (FAC). Foodstuff imports accounted for about one
third of all imports in 1983, excluding food aid which also represents a
third of all imports. FAC has also financed the preparation of an
agricultural potential map which has identified the best crops that could
be grown in the different ecological regions. A study would be undertaken
under the project that would identify potentially profitable crops for STP
to diversify into. It provides recommendations to be followed.
ObJectives
Review and assess the existing situation with regards to the
supply and demand of food and cash crop production, both locally and for
exports.  The study should focus on the following:
(a) analyze the existing production pattern in terms of type of
culture, production techniques used, and procedures for
commercialization;
(b) taking into consideration the agricultural potential map, compare
existing production patterns with potential ones, and their
relative cost of production, and identify those crops with the
most potential for development;
(c) for those crops identified in (b) above, assess the actual and
potential demand for the crops locally and abroad, and STP's
comparative advantage in producing these crops;
(d) socio-economic consequences of the possible changes in production
pattern for the individual farmers.
Based on the coaclusions of the abbve analysis, recommendations
as to how to proceed with a diversification program. This should include
an identification of crops which have potential for savings through import
substitution or export earnings and promote them. The study should
identify:
(a) research and training which will be required to improve existing
production and develop new crops;
(b) the need for extension service through the Nesquita project, Poto
research station, etc; and
(c) how to improve marketing potential, both domestically and
internationally.



- 64 -
Annex 3-5
Page 6 of 10
Logistics
Organization. The team of consultants will report to the
Director of the Planning Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development. They will also work closely with the national director
of the Mesquita project and the French technical assistance team, the
representative of FAC in STP, and the research team from IRCC at Poto. They
will keep the Project Coordinator informed at all times of their work plans
and activities.
Personnel. The study is estimated to require expertise in the
following areas:
Field work     Report writing
Weeks
Foodcrops agronomist                           4               3
Cash crops agronomist                          4               3
Agricultural economist (iucl. marketing)       3               4
Sociologist                                    4               3
Total                                            28
Starting Date. End 1987.
Report. In addition to writing up the findings and
recommendations referred to above, the report should briefly identify
development projects, indicating project scope, timetable, organization and
financing required. The consultant team should prepare a brief report of
key findings immediately after completion of field work. A full final
report should be be submitted to Government (15 copies) and to IDA (5
copies) no later than 3 months after the initiation of the study.
The report should include an annotated bibliography of the
existing reports used in the study.
The s_lected consulting firm would be required to provide the
following within the negotiated fees: external and internal transport,
lodging, communication and the report preparation costs.
WAPAD
May 1987



- 65 -
Annex 3-5
Page 7 of 10
Forest Assessment and Woodfuels Supply/Demand Studies
Introduction
The Government of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and
Principe hereby requests the assistance of the International Development
Association (IDA) In order to carry out a preliminary forest assessment and
a study of woodfuel supply/demand patterns, pricing structures and
carbonization methods.
Background and Justification
Sao Tome and Principe (STP) is endowed with a dense and varied
forest cover composed of both indigenous and exotic species. On the two
islands combined forest and agio-forest is estimated to occupy about 80% of
the total landmass of 1,000 Km but no comprehensive forest inventory has
yet been carried out. An inventory is required before any land use
planning for woodfuel production or other purposes are undertaken. Based
on aerial photographs, records dating from Portuguese colonial times and
soil maps completed in 1971, present patterns of land occupation are
tentatively estimated to be as follows:
-    humid broadleaved forest           42,000 ha
-    secondary forest                   15,000 ha
-    agro-forestry formation            24,900 ha
Total                              81A000A
Data on the pattern and level of compensation of woodfuels by
households and cocoa plantations has never been collected systematically in
STP. Activities of fuelwood dealers are not registered. Charcoal is
produced by an unknown number of dealers who are believed to use
traditional earth kiln methods. The principal source of tuelvood takes the
form of free gathering of wood for which no records are kept. The main
estimable sources are from logging and sawmill wastes and woody biomass
resulting from agro-forestry clearing operations. Estimates of household
consumption of woodfuels have been based upon parameters currently applied
to low-income developing countries in the tropics having similar
soclo-economic characteristics. No firm data is available on supply
networks of pricing and no study of carbonization methods has been carried
out. In view of the need to eliminate fluctuations in woodfuel supply and
in retail prices in the market place, a study of the supply/demand network
is required. In order to make recommendations on improvements in charcoal
production methods, data is also needed on current carbonization methods.
The cocoa sector uses wood intensively in the drying process.
Given the planned increase In production of the sector, it is also
important to determine the impact on supply and demand of woodfuels after
increased cocoa production, as well as the environmental implications of
this process.



- 66 -
Annex 3-5
Page 8 of 10
Objectives
-    establish an up-to-date assessment of STP's forest cover
(including farm trees);
-    prepare terms of reference for a forest inventory to
be carried out on selected forest areas which are promising
for timber and/or fuelvood production;
-    determine average consumption levels of woodfuels in STP
households;
-    determine average consumption levels of woodfuels per
ton of cocoa, and project voodfuel needs based on planned
production increases in the sector;
-    create a meaningful data base on the supply/demand network
and pricing structures for use in the planning of future
woodfuels supply;
-    determine whether there are alternative and appropriate
technologies for increasing the efficiency of woodfuel use by
the cocoa sector;
-    determine whether there are alternatives to woodfuel for
efficient cocoa drying; and
-    collect data on charcoal production for recommendations of
improved techniques.
Description of Tasks
(d) The forest assessment will:
(i) retrieve all existing information on STP forests, including
maps, field observations, statistical data from ministries
and agricultural ezkterprises;
(ii) plot major forest areas;
(iii) identify various formations (national parks for ecological
protection purposes, reserves, production forest for timber
and fuelwood);
(iv) draw up terms of reference for a detailed forest inventory
described above under "Objectives";
(v)  determine rates of deforestation, taking into account the
projected increase in demand resulting from growth in the
cocoa sector.



- 67 -
Annex 3-5
Page 9 of 10
(a) The etudy of woodfuels supply/demand patterns, pricing structures
and carbonization methods will:
-carry out a detailed longitudinal study of about 50
representative households to analyze fuelwood and charcoal
input;
-    carry out study of woodfuel use by cocoa farme;
-    study production/supply network to determine reasons for
fluctuations in supply and in retail prices;
-    research current carbonization methods and establish
feasibility of improved charcoal kilns;
StaffIng Requirements
(a) A team of international consultant experts will comprise:
-    one forestry expert/statistician to assess the present
status of the forests and prepare terms of reference
for selected forests inventory (two man-months);
-    one social scientist for the household consumption and
charcoal survey (one man-month);
-    one energy planner for the supply/demand study (one
man-month);
(b) A Government-appointed working group, composed of collaborators
from the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, on the one
hand, and Industry, Transport, Fisheries and Tourism, on the
other hand, will be formed.
The members of the working group will participate in the work of
the consultants and assure the-cooperation of ministries, state enterprises
and other concerned agencies.
At the beginning of the consultants' field work, the working
group will hold a briefing session in STP with all concerned parties and
will provide the consultants with any existing reports or information that
may be relevant to the study activities. Working group members will also
accompany the consultants on their visits to state enterprises and will
prepare background reports on enterprises or issues for the consultants as
required. The working group will work closely with the consultants durlag
the entire implementation period of study and will participate in the
discussions of draft reports.



- 68-
Annex 3-5
Page 10 of 10
Reporting Requirements
(a) Forest Assessment
The forest expert/statistician will prepare and present a draft
report for discussion to the Government and to IDA at the end of the
activity. The finalized report will be presented approximately one month
later after comments have been incorporated. The report should contain an
outline of the input and results expected from the forest inventory to be
carried out at a later date.
(b)  Woodfuels Supply/Demand Study
The social scientist and energy planner will prepare and submit a
joint draft report for comment to both the Government and IDA at the end of
the activity. A final report, incorporating revisions, will be presented
no later than one month after the Government and IDA review.
WAPAD
May 1987



LAO TUHEEPIINCM  - 69 -                             Annex 3-6
PC TOM   E                  69                                              Table I
co    =ACTow                                                                      Page 1 of 2
Dobt*                   4uiofi)  4USS 'CoO)         I Total
__    2 Iforeisl   8m
Lwcal Forign Totl  Local foreign Total   Excimm    Costs
MA9. VISTA
t. PNTATION DnEOPNT ILA VISTA                42    354   36    532  4,502    034             St       26
2. FM CROPEMA VISTA                            1     11    13       19    142    161         88        1
3. SOCIAL IRTC T        MAE VISTA            25      3t    64    315    499    314           61        4
*-ToLeZ BELA VISTA                             68    404   472    867  SIU43   6,009           86       31
. PLANTATiON GEOELMPIENT UWA IU3O
I. VU PWTATION IEUIIFIOT                     49    494   543    624  6.295  691o             91       36
2. FOOD IC.   VIAJ                             I     11    12       10    142    152          93       1
3. SOCIAL INFRASTRjCTH F    tisA              25     39    64    314    496    810            61       4
b-total PLnTATNm DKEamP0T UtA l                75    544   61       949  6.s23   7.872         B8       41
. SIIPORT TO AtRICtLTURE SECTOR
1. SIMCULTUC   TEOINICAL SUPRT                2      86    se       26  14096   1.123        98        6
2.A  RIIWTUA TRANI MUNlf                      11     69    90    144    873   1,019          S6        5
3. FM OCROPD kLaIT                            10     50    60    128    63        760        83        4
4. OTHER EEAS                                 3      S0    53       36    641    676         95        4
5. SIIML  ES                                  2     42   4*        30    53V      70         95       3
6. MECT SIMPET UNIT                            2     97    59       24  1,109   1#133         99       6
ib-TOt  SUPOT To AgRICOLTRE SECTmR             31    384   415    388  491   5.27?             93       29
.1 ASELINE COSTS                              173  1.313  1s06   2.204  16,954  19160          98      100
wsical Continmncies                            16    102   118    206  1,295  1501            9        8
-,ice Continencies                             28      62    90    359    M     1.151          6         6
-1 PRJET COSTS                                21S  I497  1715  2,768  19.043 21.911            87      114
_      -     a         a    ng
SWlVll AMCU  COST SUMMARY
(Dobra Milli            (MUS9 000)                  Z Tobl
Z Foreicn  lbm
Local Forein Total  Lcal Foreim  otal   Excag    Coskt
I.   ET          COM
A. CIVIL t01                                 100    122   221  1.266  1s547  2W913           55       1S
8. AGRICULTURE IIERS                          7    140   149       94  1786   t.9             5       10
C. EWEIPHT , VERYIlE   FURI AND REPVIR        4      83    97      51  14053  1.104          95        6
0. AGRICULTIRE INPUIS                         1t    211   222    141  2.679  2,820           95       iS
E. TEOCL ASSISTANCE                                 146   156    136  1f953  1.990           93       10
F. SmDISUItRD TIIIII                          -      65    65       -    832    832         100        4
6. PROJECT PREAATION FACM                     -    119   119        -  1.516   1.116       t1o         8
N. IWUEE  COTRACT                              -    344   344        -  4.95  437S          10t       23
Total INS11UENTT COSTS                         133  1,230 1.362   16     15,642  17.330         90       90
II. REOJENT COSTS
A. PEUSO                                     6       -      6     77       -      77         -        0
P. WEAnTos a IInT1ENME                      34    103   138    438  1,314  t1752            75        9
Totl RECUET COSTS                               41    103   144    515   1354   1,929           72       tO
Toal ASEIE COaTS                                173  1.333  1.5116  2.204  16.96  19t.60         Se      tOO
Fsical Contirgncui                            16    102   118    206  1295   1t,5             86        8
Price Carknincies                              28     62    90    35       M    1.151         69        6
Total  OET COSTS                                218   .497 1.715  2,748 19,043 2t.8t1            S7      114
VMC=  mum         z - 2 m annum22 ZERSm  UNVURaun   a



'.w4
t' Pi   tw 6         mt oW          t t1 US   96      I1836                    la'I  111     rn       tfg9                       m     6SW                                 opgq=  woj
a1 t            r           -             9          -             -          .-                                   a             -                                                    s
-mm   =mm             m     a  -rn            -      M  m    mm*               cmmonss          ma    m      m       mmannwn  urn mmauw
ut  'St vi    t     'Itt  qut    3  am   "13          9s           96          34            ti    t     9"                            dlg 1a3u = u
tu ':  is t' w    *         tti os  tP     t          su i               UT    *e                    w R  Uw we                  rn    we'                                103rnw 
e     eo   togli   a        a       w                       at    am           tt a                                utt           tt    tit                           somv    t"IN
tecst  a'llt t00  St't   as         so  e             OJI          tail}   No                zt       0144|        #0           t9t   K09                                  S0 in         tno1
Yt    9'6    w      3t      -       -     06         3M            at1         tot           -       36                         6      4t                               s1111W        9tne1
u?    tot  =SS  a!          -             06          9k           30?         13            -       36           331t -               39                       mrnwizv       swmoa 
*      flI           -              -    -            49                          -  -       -        -            -             6                                          1USS4
*0     *o   uat   -         -       -     - s                      -           -                     eI -                                                                             V 3'  w   i a
*      0'0  9U    -         -             -           38      6      t         -             -    - 6              -            -      UK£118W1934 -201  '
OM 3K5' 111114111
mot  VI   06 't 0U           t      91 o    ot        IN 6ol 319                             11t  ,     l          -             E3    Mu11Im
*         Vo   mu't   -         -       -     -          -            -           -             a -'                                                                                      N -  -  W  U   U   *
0e     01?  90?'? e9        -       -      t                       Ut at       -                      S t                 -            OK                    '11 31A3961A iUyh  '2
°K     t * OU 'It   - R       1     -     -           -      .           e                   -                                  -        'A I W 3W 
az    roet  491   -           la      OK    -                       2  -                               cajll-                     a       i                            SO=  31OulMI     *5
Oil    rot  "tot Us                       it         lo            am                        is   P "                            is  1S             MM   -W  1SI t S314t1ft   ' IlMtl '3
13 *4§t gq    -          -       -  -1                         -           63       -              964                       -    609t                                  13P1AI2
In  VW   OM                                                016          du                  6"                                   SNPA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11   1?ISW IV
tg -  -m    a ma   m -                                   m          mm                        mas              t                -  a a                         w o                       1
.OAW  z Mo  Losi            MM  OMun,  aiu m  urn mum   imus    mu u    mu  mdmamu                                    m Wmne Lw vine  VWSA
-              438115~~m   1315  ID1   m  6306    WI1W         TMI=m W3UIam ZIUuS? Il                     is61911 3?  2110111   VW3  IilIo3S
111u3 £21014 WUI1UIUII 3125 0965~~UIMI 31253dl3  Q9VI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. 1U
~~~~umudm3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ IO A3RXSdE 'I1U95~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3131 3U 315 CVI tlw



SAlO TOE -  PRIICIPE
co  BEAIRLITATI  FWECt
ESTIMATE   C M  O CEDIT  ISHR1       tW
IUW'000)
IIA Fr    Didbrusot   Comolative   fegioa ide
m  Smter  by umter   Dliburust  frofile t2)
o.                                                                                   -
1a88    l    1,63           1,$0            0
It      130         1,760            3
1m      1       250         2,010           7
ll      320         2,330           12                                        5
199     I       450         2,71           19 It
it      450         3,230           26
199     1       510         3,740          34
11      64          4,380           43                                                                                 /      /
192     1       580         4,960          51                                         4 -
11      570         5,530           60     '-/
19m3    1       570         6,100          U9
11      510         6,610          76                                                                  .   ."    /
1994   1        450         7,060          83                                (4
' ll         4O          7,sl0          Be
l19f    I       O3          7,900          93                                        2
It                                 97
19      I                                 too -  100
Mates 1/ IDA Nhtern africa  gion profile for perennial                                  O -
crop frojects; Septeber 1M.                                                     1909       1009       Ison       1811       1102       1110      1694       liii        1990
IRA Fiscal Years July I - Ju   30.
Project rer  July I - Jun  30.                                                                                 IDA  Fiscal Yea
Target Dtes Negotiations Nlay 197.
Effetivenss Seteebe  1987.
2V Project profile differs fro  region profile
becuse of PmF  isbrueent of US0  1.5 eillion at credit
effectiveness and stat-p activities initiating
one ywr before credit effectiveness.
WaD 1987



I           --
H   -
V v~c
?        r--~lft



- 73 -
Annex 3-8
Page 1 of 5
SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE
COCoA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organizational Arrangements for Project Support
Since agriculture and particularly cocoa is an integral part of
the economy as a whole. the project activities will be supervised directly
by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. He will:
(a) set general directions and make recommendations on Government
position on policy issues concerning the project;
(b) provide guidanta and support to the Project Support Unit in
ensuring that Government counterpart responsibilities are timely
met;
(c) on the basis of reports from the Project Support Unit, monitor
the implementation of the project and provide feedback to IDA on
the project's impact on the economy;
(d) inform IDA of changes in Government policies that would have
impact on the project;
(e) ensure that the rest of Government is abreast of the project
activities; and
(f) serve as mediator for the Government if differences occur between
project personnel and other Government entities.
A Project Support Unit (PSU) would be established. It would be
headed by an internationally-recruited project coordinator who would be
assisted by a deputy coordinator and at least one support staff to provide
accounting and administrative services.  The coordinator would also be the
coordinator for thet Line of Credit for Eeonomic Rehabilitation and
Modernization, according to the terms of reference shown at Appendix 1.
The terms of references for the Deputy Project Coordinator at Appendix 2.
PSU would be responsible for:       --
(a) coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the different
components of the project;
(b) ensuring that all administrative procedures and requirements for
IDA and the cofinanciers are being properly followed (e.g.,
disbursement requests and accounts are maintained for each
component);
(c) ensuring that IDA and other cofinanciers are fully informed at
all times of the progress of the project through preparation and
submission of periodic progress reports and communication of any
major changes in the project if and when they occur;



- 74 -
Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 5
(d) ensuring that Government is informed of the progress of the
project through the Minister of 1ADR and facilVtating
decision-making when necessary;
(e) when applicable, coordinating the procurement process of civil
works, goods and services for the different components and
ensuring that IDA and cofinanciers' guidelines are properly
followed (procurement for the Agricultural Enterprises financed
under the projecq would be handled directly by these
Enterprises); an4
(f) coordinating the various studies that would be carried out during
project Implewentation.
WAPAD
May 1987



- 75 -
Annex 3-8
Page 3 of S
ProJect Coordinator
Position:           Project Coordinator
Agency:             Project Support Unit
Duration:           2 years renewable
Reports to:         Minister of fgi-tculture and Rural Development
(NADR)
Functions:          He would head the Project Support Unit to be
established under the proposed project, and
would be responsible for the following:
(a) coordinating project activities so that
the different project entities keep up
to date on project development, thus
ensuring complementarity of project
activities;
(b) monitoring project activities by
maintaining a timetable of scheduled
activities, and reporting slippages to
the Minister of MADR;
(c) collating quarterly progress reports
concerning the project and preparing
consolidated reports to be submitted to
ministries, IDA, and other concerned
agencies, in addition to other reports
which may be issued directly by specific
project entities;
(d) assisting Government in defining the
priorities for studies to be made on the
agricultural sector, the elaboration of
their terms of reference, and the
recruitment of consultants;
(e) when applicable, supervising the
procurement process of civil works,
goods and services and ensuring that IDA
and cofinanciers' procedures, where
applicable, are followed (procurement
for the Agricultural Enterprises
financed under the project would be
handled directly by these Enterprises);



- 76 -
Annex 3-8
page 4 OF 5
(f) resolving where possible problems that
may arise and affect project
implementation; and
(g) transfering know-how in the area of
project management.
Qualifications:     advanced degree or equivalent experience in
agronomy and/or administration and management of
development projects.
Experience:         at least ten years of experience in project work,
substantially in agriculture, preferably with
cocoa and including at least five years experience
in project management and administration in
conditions similar to those in Sao Tome.
Languages:          Portuguese essential; Eiglish or French preferable.
WAPAD
May 1987



- 77 -
Annex 3-8
Page 5 of 5
Deputy Coordinator
Position:           Deputy Coordinator
Agency:             Project Support Unit
Duration:           4 years
Reports to:         Project Coordinator
Functions:          The deputy coordinator would be appointed by Government
and work in the Project Support Unit. He would report
directly to the Project Coordinator on all matters
concerning the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project. His
functions would include the following:
(a) assisting the project coordinator in
executing the responsibilities of the
Project Support Unit (see TOR for the
Project Coordinator);
(b) undertaking or ensuring the execution of
those activities delegated to him by the
project coordinator; and
(c) substituting the project coordinator in
his absence.
Qualifications:     Technical degree in Agriculture desirable.  Extensive
knowledge of public administration and laws in STP
required.
Experience:         At least five years in public sector management and
administration related to agriculture. Must be
familiar with Government administrative and legal
procedures and with dealing with senior Government
officials.
WAPAD
May 1987



THIS PAGE
IS BLANK



SAO TOt£ AND PRINCIPE
CDCOA REHIIlLITATION PRWECT
COCOA PRICES
ICONSTANT 1986 PRICES)
1986     1987      1998     1909    IO        1991      1992     1993      1994   1995-2011
Cacao CIF aj               USSIton               2,090    2,040    1,940    1,890    1,C.40   1,084   1,898    1,912    1,926    1,940
Less Landding    Storage                            I50)     (50)      (50)      (50)     (IO)      (50)     (50)      (50)     (50)      (50)
Less ICCU Levy fUSS.01Ilb)                          124)      (24)     (24)      (24)     124)      (24)     (24)      (24)     124)      (24)
Less Freight t Insurance                           (115)    (115)    1115)    (115)    4115)    (115)    (115)    (115)        1115)    (115)
FOR Sao Ivte               US$Jton                1,901    1,951    1,751    11701    1,691    1,695    1,709    1,723    1,737    1,751
ft4q                     149       146      130       134      132       133      134       135      137       139
Less Port  fandling/Storage                          (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)
=                    147      143       135      131       130      131       132      133       134      135
Less Direct Tax bj               q.9%               (15)      (14)     113)      (13)     113)      (13)     (13)      (13)     113)      (13)
Less Senera] Duty                  1%                (1)      H1)       (1)       M        (1)       11)      (1)       11)      (1)       (1)
Less Agric Tad                     6Z                19)       (9)      (B)       (8)      (8)       tO)      (8)       I8)      (8)       (8)
Less Agric Contribution            2%                (3)       (3)      (3)       (3)      (3)       (3)      (3)       (3)      (3)       (3)                        .1
Less Transgort from EEA t) Port                      (1)      J         () (1)    (1)      (1)       (1M      (1)       (1)               (1)
Less Coonission                                      (3)      13)       (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)      (2)       (2)
Faregate                  C /                        59      115       108      105       IO4      105       106      107       108      109
Faregate Ewcluding taxes                            143      139       132      128       126      127       128      129       130      132
a S World Bank haif-yearty revisoio  of Comodity Price Forecasts - September 1986
b_I Percentage over FOE prite increases pcrt handling charges
c; Erowex's fixed prices avernged 54sftO1Dl/ton it 195i (65DB/kg for prisary grade and 45DB/kg for secondary grade
Note:  Totals co not add due to rounding.
WAPAD
February 1987



I I I wcj
cr1            1Krc~~0  <  I-"
I~              -u<   U           F 1
-                        >0
cr'       m
H       1~~om



.               -
aMgusu wm s
SS'01)
95 udit  ou       2                 a1    nos    tw           NM3    aoot    nus        Is"     io       19s    IM,o  aIv    sw            it"      206
Coco him  (low)                                552  _2          W4      Ms    1233    1310    341i    an          155      UN       "1      16       15      1525
eat1 Pw1t (aft.: As. Tagas                     II5     3.08     in5     30a      us       100     I01      in      we6    lO         1       me6      weS 
salca f s6,441040    048    S,4   1*323,23                                              2,5  151.856  3*,40   16,06   134*ft*3 1,7325  130*001 2d00,66  UI,730
----- -*-*-                                        -      -         -       -        -      -----                                                -- 0-
hzklt.al   .ki.                      2,921   33,925  14,390  23.259  25,935  2331    33,161   23,3    23,11  21.16    21,311   s1.1    21,161   33.311
Naiate. .o   wa.lamtuu                       Mu    5,449"t   1,40   10,"    05   95"s  1SOu   10,2"    032    1,W    Isom   323                    Isom   1,6
A90Ialat adh  O0mal                      0,500   6,506  ,m0   #O*. SIM,    o,ou0   sOw                ,oow000    J        A no   I'om   1'm     1,69    3,000
lb      _                                   26,6n   10,"2    3,13s  nos"   "5,m   ","I    ,seo   ss,80    2A"1  23,22   23,0    VA"0   "00o   2
total ?lt1        ants                     51.4     2,060  53I92som  3,5 0955 ",      3 ,011   3,      n,00    2,3    5,3w   4,4S    4,3w    n.,            ,201
amlows                                   12,o61  10401   3441    45,01    56,33    30,o2    38,s6    wow5   95m2  95,2v   mom20   932    -1,202   w,ur
lWi_*d 2314  zon                              ,a   "OM*   m,S..           ..    .in      n n70 .mom in o                 "on?  O,U,f   U   U,JM  *a*UaU    a
*b                            0  us            0        0        0       a        0                0        0       0        a       0        0
OlemI, *W. tam ass.    h60mth               11,40  22,M3    5,0m   2093    Mom    32,3t  2,40   0,1    V3,90              s,3    "03  3533    35,254 #3
html
A. FimIal CosA#, tam   a6 1mn,s i    6 m9 1- lat1   me n,2t dam. b4cm
(a) it W" 'm=il 1am all ,555 *imel b7 ta,mfsssS ,1. thedo      oW appn 
(4) 10.: 1.i at I  ssoI W0 1mm tm to laIa 4u35932s3
(e) dspmlat08a cml Ie eelcula fou ml i _ut a      *L      t e ma _ m ___usd _  i_o 1901#
bee..* tunam to- e loo a=s., dspmiati CWMe! a* In he cooI Elm alYala.
3. All satftast On In OOM&mt I900 petes.
this pamlatim  iat,,ss W0 d1.towtb.a is this uwosths                                          ,tmme
(a) welatlue mIaigiN of wow. pdea  am. td    late           Lato    ihat mgw-1 m.s
la e.astmt 08m5 MO9
(4) llast 08 a. dtbi s   "wes .



am u  -  mim
SW mmm
- u
n _s    _    as             us    us u          ws   ui ts -9   u@*sa   aa   ns    se    ui   us   us   u
-ea
Pob hm qpmu9sn
_ "fe, s  a,m  u,m   s,m   1,5"s now  n,    Vs1 349a6  now   m,a nA0  n6,4  345
u n   m                     -*       *      0     o             *     *      *     *      *      g    *       *     *
b_W hm _  3U3m                          "-3,31  5.5  U m   *,"m  Is.5    0         ;  "-#M   "-33  7aw    0   i
mob= 3iinS1a ou15             * 33*4  "An4   f WIR  *,M         0     0      0                                        
baisIUsft Qpi                    4613       S     6      0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0      S     S      S
cmu"" PSum Imdom %Wr                 S "1.M  5.53  3,933  31,40  UA,W6 suS.1   won*5  331,0  34.61  39,34.5   40        9.915"#A
_ t_F 8 "$.M  m w  &%    "                                  "An  .w  MA    mm  W,     .A    WA    $W              mA     *
ftmp_nt Fft                      mom   man, wim   mAn6 6n    U          u             n i n  in U           m     m      .
me
bw---- -_                                                                                                        -
_     ft Cm  O _n
noees imom" o5 a                301,403wi    mo 40.3) 3A36  3,8m33.3   1353135n 8.694,5   n1,650 n31   3.13.1   opus
~~~~~~~~                                  nes  =A     _oo    uhm   UgA     n,n mam 4w             uAnF mA    ohm 
busoNmn
"M gm                           3_.1  MAW  "Am  3,61   .9 MAW  M,1    ,4M  3o5   31  335 331 emu  MA3
_D #p U,  tUJs§ta momw W. &m
(o) u-m   m       * t   lb a_.   Ohu 
*D                                                                                                                                          b O
uav1"



I - 19
_ eat  eseet: a   ana e -W    --$        W     gm.
ineg~~t t  ggee  _1,e  (ple 't
a                                                               .     0      S     0                              -a--
no  PaVe  tWt1§4n tt (*Al)                             main uo)
Imude  wooto  sa" am *mm_ lw of *mr ( <)
""do_I _eVeaP stow tw'uw  ww*wie '_,en       wo  eg  g     ugt    it
eae't  ee'i  g.eg  cate  saVe  sv  - nsw  ea'e  ee   a'n   ogae   sas'   aot'e   ar                     pleaes p on_sw*   w
|   er.t" at    eat   eaut  cutn  eat   e     a,   ate   sat  oaot   t mp        t VWto n                  aIviP PMMI
Z~~~~~a,   awo   tii  swo   wel  owi   wo   *t4   ow    mos  go    twi   mon  swa                                                -
I               OWit  %Wm  110c   91ut  i         1Tt tOt  WV6   own  919   VW&  18       9    n'sat   (gi tna)  MOM! m
UN    Liili  Wijt  liii  lfist   Ls    et    o        est  list   ee*tat  easttOeI *I                                        Wt*
n    - -- - - - -. - - - - - --
iewn n snn   "tout 'twut w       wt 11         wo sw        e        t twn  twe o                                   11 ma 
tU'S  twto  Wtoe  tices tesj swn  in    steu <O swe   fwl w"'S moon    oet  no"                              t- m    1mo 
9fes"     t 40100c   mle  t1010  '"mo t n"t tOt o"    "IV    metSn Swe  nitt  ate                                        WM
at OK  tOn           t tO:t            on  tO        us  tOt   101   St    ait   at                          lo MP owm mm
Uts  tU7 t    Utt          mU  Mt   an    04  t    lto    tot611   tot    us                                        INIVIS
a"             on     "a    "a     "a     "a         an     tm     Oak   Ut  an       detb^t       _; tZtk ft's aM lUl
al      w  ant   a



0861 JUO"2J*
"4 44                                                                                                                      *I- an - "  - a..    1. Sa.  S.....P45550*05
m   C14 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    m
twin wW'a Mmt   uw_   oa'n  wag own  sil  wn  its,    M    #Wu  swg, 4341                                      go* as *t6
ou'af valem iwo,. iw';  w0cor s34u  tw'w   0       0      0     0     0      0     0                                m~4
we"  Md6U  Calls "en'  13611  VW"1195"Ot £1*'W  9Utig   we,"  65e  SW"'  461Wa  46011                  IUP  1a 
"M fma4   as-
*     *      *     *     ulls s m'a uo  Gous'  SW"a IWV   mawo  13*   two  twov;                              -s ano
.34p  muw   E,1   Ww  uVw  ea0    me"w  9ut1  own  Own *4Wu t6               n l us  m tw *-wdod twlu*
m_ a_ gm_
L4wm 14wm  swop  new4g  gggwa tws'  sws  vulso iwin  £i0m  uvwl ,tn'w  twat u.uon                               -111
go ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                                   "
*  00           0     0     0      0     S      0     0      *     0     0      3061n* n*
*           a            *      *     Owl  t*u u*at 0wn  t0           0s   swu  O                         mz       swen
w" ow         oet  sou  art " twi  tw    ow    tw    owes  onftso  tw    twt ont                      _
o     0                                                         0     *      *     *m,nrwa     e
swm  :wa. teo 1'os   w #          oa-  'aewe fUwst i     uVw   uw"  Wq ls, pss,                                     tem .s si__
u0au euWsm insgg u'wm    1Um falls'0  46,g, Mom~ 0uris  "gem  V3W"  iWOV wt asi                      onu~mss
gm a. -1NW
|               tt  'tli~~m  Gt  066    "ali '"a   an"   "St@  lU    "a   to    Gm    at"t  onZ   an               I an-
oaomu    w a  am
o~~~ -                                         o    mu nb" t" " e t 
fwt wS'""W <Us w Z aW sitec  e * o"un tt' (Ctu.  s  t



hAnne 3-12
BP   M  EIIII  lF M E
(300 at c'rmt pricus frn P1-M   nd tbe  mua    P15 prics)
__ __                                               ___                        _          ~           ''
ProeSct "V
1        2         3        4         5        6         7        5         9       10       It        I2        13       14       15-25
1'Na
hia Vista CKco  Taos                     229       298      338       395      433       416      439       465       43       46        46.      448       448 4US            423
Uba Bod  Cocoa Taxes                     139       IS0      149       i4       239       326       45       576       6BD      751       792      303      S91            811  a1
hia Vista Dividals                         0         0        e       206      524        0        716      764       721      952      1142     1109      1064     19        1243
tD hado  ividuus                           0         0        0         0         0        0         0      234       699     1346      2013     2270      2400     2445      2M
utotal Cooa Incu                         368       443      437       751      1196     1350      1612     2091      2532     3513      4415     46        47       4704      5271
External Cotribti
11"                                   279       1626     1404      1116     t004         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
363                                   17331    166       3120  ; 07S         46
Cais se Ctrale                         40S       316      322         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
1u1919Artsal                           450       m2       284         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
am                                     362       230      384        70       33         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
iFAO                                   346       330      373       318      203         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
FP/ Iabors                             142       232      193         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
MWIPAC                                  36        66       74        26        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Ibrers                                  0         6       1t        30       32         0        0         0         0        0        0         0         0        0         0
hbtota1Cat.Assist.                      6B23      434      412       268      1746         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        a         0
TOTAL IWUI                              669       5332     469       39       2942      1550     U12       2091     2592      3518      4415     4635      4724     4704      5271
loan  -etn
234                                     36        45       4         53       56        60       60        t0       60        60      253       25%      25        253      252
Caim  Contrale                           9        25       40        47       47       115      114       114       114      114       114      114       114      114       114
mm                                      43       128      193       253      291       79       72        732      732       732      732       732       732      732       792
3EI                                      2         5        a        It       it       OSe       105      105      105       l05       105      105       105      lOS       105
IF*                                      7        21       37        51       61       172      t70       170      170       170      170       170      170       170       t70
&dtotal ton raubnt                        VA       225      331       414      466       247      1230     1230      1230     1230      2423     1426      1425     1423      1422
prJKt costs                             6523      482      4182      26U       1746
TOTAL MOL                               6426      5107     4513      3052     2212      1247      1230     3230      1230     1230      1428     1426      1425     1423      1422
IT FLOE                                  270       225       155       37      70        105      383       961      1353     22       2997      3209      300      320       3396
mtet  Totals say not add du  to rundiq.
bvAy 1987



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19574
to<                                  L  o                                                                                       0* 10 'y ,
oJuiima40dKD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4oo Ango lore L
A~~ F                              R I. 
-'; 'n                                                                        rSAO TOME AND PRiNCIPE
W                                           SAO TOME
{ ~ ~ ~  Perca                      . * P -  ~~~~~Beta VIshtar and iUbarBpu,d
Me     Mon roods
Riears
(<                                           ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Airports
}                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~O Towtns
SantaJCata                                                   impor   pnttions
\    f                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~son-~-'-Elevations in metrs
Juliana do Sou ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                         2       4        
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o&i A PoreAnG
'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                         ,t~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOM*EtERs
O ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~       Th~i~~~W r__ _  r6 W_  -__* b        _  1
' KOLAS t                  =d    a 0dd r                                                    2  ?    4  5    *  
~~~~~~~d ~ ~        ~        ~        Z TrMr  AN  PR tZNC*fitPE 
iMARC.4 1986



