Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONLY
Repot N.Q 12539
PROJECT COQPLETION REPORT
DEMOCMATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1830-STP)
NOVEMBER 29, 1993
M I CROGRAPH I CS
Report No:         1?25:3t9
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



:URRENCY EOUM/ALENTS
Curtency Unit - Dobra (Db) I/
1987    1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
US$1100       55       87   124  140   265   313
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures
used in this report are metric.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AFVP        Association Fran*aise des Volontaires du Progres
(French National Association of Volunteers for Progress)
APSDP       Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder Development Project
BADBA       Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de l'Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
BNSTP       Banco Nacional de Sio Tomd e Prfncipe
(National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe)
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Central Fund for Economic Cooperation)
CENFOPA   Centro de Formagio Profissional Agraria
(Center for Professional Training in Agriculture)
EEA         Empresa Estatal Agropecuaria
(State Enterprise for Agriculture and Livestock)
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration
(French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
ICE         Instituto de Cooperagio Econ6mica
(Portuguese Institute for Economic Cooperation)
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Developmeat
IRCC        Institut de la Recherche du Cafe et du Cacao
(Coffee and Cocoa Research Institute)
MAP         Ministerio de Agricultua e Peseas
(Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries)
MADR        Ministerio da Agricultura e Desenvolvimento Rural
(Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development)
MP          Ministerio do Plano e Comercio Interno
(Ministry of Planning and Domestic Trade)
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
POTO        Estagio Experimental Agron6mica de Pot6
(Agricultuanl Experimental Station of Pot6)
PSU         Project Support Unit
STP         Sio Tome and Prfncipe
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WFP         World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31
1I Period average.



FOR OJTICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of0*  Oflreto,oenetal
OpeMaidf Evaltuon
November 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTQRS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Prcject Completion Report on Sao Tome and Principe
Ccoa Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1830-STP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sao Tome and Principe - Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1 830-STP) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part 11 of
the report was contributed by the Borrower.
The economic performance of the project fell short of expectations, largely
because of excessive optimism about the course of cocoa prices. Nonetheless, it achieved
satisfactory ERRs for the two plantation investments. The scope of project operations
was much reduced because of difficulties with cofinancing. Export taxes on cocoa and
high costs of consultant management services produced financial losses for the two cocoa
plantations serviced by the project. The consultant management path chosen for
restructuring/privatization of public enterprises subsequently led towards institutional
arrangements that now promise to be more sustainable. But the path itself was a high
cost one and only partially successful as a model for privatization. The export taxes are
being reviewed.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory; project benefits as
sustainable and institutional development as partial.
The Project Completion Report provides a good account of project
implementation and performance. Its treatment of project costs could be more disceming,
however; a knowledge of total project costs can only be obtained from its section on
project financing.
An audit is planned. It will review inter alia the project's institutional
arrangements for rescuing its two run-down cocoa plantations.
Attachment
This document has a restricted disbution and may be usC 'f .eciplents only In the pwformance of
their officdiJ duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WoId Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILTATION PROJECT (CREDT 1830Ml)
PROJECT COMPLEnTON REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY    ...........                   ............................ i-ii
EA&UI:   PROJECT REVIW FROM THE BANK'S                       ...........                    1
1. Project Identity   ............        ........................... 1
2. Backgod .I......................................... 1
3. ProjectObjectvesandComponents .........................  2
4. Poject DesignandOrganization ............................ 3
5. Project  npleenWon   .................................. 5
6. Project Results ................................... 7
7. Project Susainbiity   ..................................  9
8. Bank Peronance         ..................................  10
9. Borrower's Perfbnance   ...........           .....................  10
10. TechnIa Assisance nd Management Contracs .            ................ 11
il.Project      meatona tdDaa   .............1..............   1
12.Findingsand LawOnsLeamed   .            ...........................  11
PART n: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PEPECTVE...... 12
1. Conmment on the Analys Contained in Part I of the Draft PCR   ....    .... 12
2. Bank Perrnnance durig the Evoludon and Implementation of the Project  . 12
3. Borrower'sPerformance   ........................                           13
4. Relationship between theBank and the Borrower  ......          ........... 13
EAR      p:  PART m. SrATIICAL INFORMATION   ........                        ............ 14
1. Relaed Bank Loans or Credits   ............................ 14
2. Prject Timetable  ..................................... 15
3. DIbursements Timetable  ................................ 16
4. Project Costs and Financing ............................... 16
5. Allocation and Use of Loan Proceeds   ........................    17
6. ProjectRests   ..........................  18
7. StatusofCovenans   .........                .................  19
8. UseofBankResources   ............                  ..............  23
9. Project Rate of Return ..........................                          24
Map: IBRD No. 24553
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1830-SP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1. This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1830-STP) in Sao Tim6 and Prfncipe, foL which credit in the amount of US$7.9 million
equivalent was approved o-n June 23, 1987. The original closing date for the IDA credit was
December 31, 1994. The finai disbursement was made on December 16, 1992 and the
undisbursed amount of SDR 913.03 was canceled on March 12, 1993. At that time efforts were
continuing to recovar undocumented balance of US$3,572.56 in one of the Special Accounts.
2.   Eight other cofinnciers with govermment were expected to provide additional finance
totalling US$21.8 million. These cofinanciers were BADEA, IFAD, CCCE, OPEC, USAID and
Portugal, WFP, FAC and AFYP. Their total amount actually provided was US$12.6 million.
3.   The PCR was prepared by Pierre Werbrouck (Task Manager) and Ms. Hilda Yumiseva, a
consultant on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Sao Tome e
Prfncipe in conjunction with the Agriculture Operations Division, Africa Country Department IV
of the World Bank. The report was reviewed by Messrs. Surjit Singh, Sr. Operations Officer,
and John Joyce, Division Chief (AF4AG). Mr. Surendra Agarwal, Projects Adviser (AF4DR),
and Ms. Maria H. Cordeiro's, Country Team Chairperson (AF4CO), provided comments which
havy been incorporated in the report. The Borrower's comments on Part I of the draft PCR are
included in Part ff. Copies of the PCR were provided to the cofinanciers for comment. Only
OPEC responded, and its comments, which indicated satisfaction with project implementation, did
not call for any amendments to the PCR.
4.   Preparation of this PCR is based on a field mission to Sao Tome and Prfncipe in October
1992; the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; Supervision and Mid-Term Review
Reports; progress reports; project audits; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
and internal Bank memoranda.



SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REAxTTON PROJECT (CREDIf 1830 -S)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION S Y
Project Objectives
1.   The project sought to support the Government's efforts to achieve economic recovery by increasing
cocoa production and, in the long term, developing the whole agricultural sector. The project was to
increase production and improve social conditions of the workers in two cocoa plantations (Uba Budo and
Bela Vista), and strengthen STP's agricultural sector by: (i) facilitating technical assistance, traing, and
future financing of other plantations; CiH) creating an applied - e@arch capacity to assist the food crop
subs.xtor; (ii.) supporting smallholder development; and (iv) providing assistance for preparation and
implementation of studies and strategies, including land distribution.
froJect Resul
2.   An important accomplishment of the project is that it facilitated the transition from a centrally
planned system to privately managed agriculture. The project paved the way for the leasing of
agricultural estates to the private sector and the distribution of state land to smal1holders. It was judged
as an overall success, even though some appraisal targets were not fully met.
3.   Technical Results. The project achieved the following technical results: (a) 1,535 ha were
rehabilitated and 200 ha replanted at Bela Vista (100% of appraisal targets); 1,015 ha were replanted with
hybrid cocoa at Uba Budo (68% of appraisal targets); (b) yields at Bela Vista were 57% of appraisal
estimates and 54% at Uba Budo; (c) production was 51% of appraisal estimates at Bela Vista and 57% at
Uba Budo. The appraisal projections, however, substantially overestimatea yield and production
potential. Labor productivity has improved by more than 30 %.
4.   Economic, Flnancial and Social Results. The ERR is estimated at 15% for Bela Vista and 12%
for Uba Budo. The social infrastructure facilities for plantation workers have only pardy been completed
because of lack of cofinancing. Financial gains to workers have been minima because wages have
remained low.
6.   Istitution Building. The strengthening of two agriculture research units and the creation of the
Center for Professional Training in Agriculture are important gains in institutional capacity.
Implementation Exoenience
7.   Two foreign firms were hired to manage Bela Vista and Uba Budo. Both firms showed a high
level of technical competence. Project implementation was adversely affected by lower than projected
international cocoa prices (average prices of US$1,000 per ton compared to the US$2,400 per ton
appraisal estimate), and delayed exchange rate adjustments caused local currency shortages. Absence of
important cofinancing by BADEA (US$6 million) and OPEC (US$0.9 million) slowed down social
infrastructure improvements and equipment purchases. Government counterpart funding was often
delayed and fell 38% short of the committed amount. Low cocoa export revenues compounded the



- ii -
problem. IDA missions restructured the project's funding to reduce capital expenditure and thus to ease
the cash flow problems. Plantation development expenditures were only 62% of the budgeted am.iount.
The Project Support Unit management capacity was weak.
Projfet Sustainability
11. In spite of the financing problems mentioned above, the project succeeded in promoting the
development of a sustainable private plantation sector. Considerable gains in efficiency were achieved
through the modernization of the two plantations. Bela Vista was able to turn in a profit in i991 while
Uba Budo was able to meet its operating expenses from revenues. As a result, the management firms for
Bela Vista and Uba Budo are signing contracts to lease the plantations from the government, and thus the
accomplishments of the project will be sustained.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12. The Government and IDA will benefit from the following findings and lessons:
(a) In designing a commodity development program, the risks of adverse trends in world market
prices and exchange rate policies should be subject to more rigorous analysis. Currency
overvaluation penalizes exporters, and may jeopardize such projects.
(b)  The private management frms were successful in improving the technical efficiency of the
project. The cost of the management fees, however, is more than 50% of the plantation
development costs. At current low cocoa prices, such high fees are not justified. Moreover,
since the firms did not share financial risks, cost-effective production was not always their
top priority.
(c) The training component should have been more clearly specified, especially for training of
plantation managers. Guidelines and benchmarks should have been established with clearer
objectives in mind.
(d)  Key project components should be funded by a primary donor/lender and not through
cofinancing. The project was to be financed by multiple donors, but few donors came
forward with the agreed amount and !n the agreed format, and the project complexity was
substantially increased through its cofinancing arrangements.
(e)   The Project Support Unit could have been more efficient if the expatriate advisor had been
available on a short-term basis more frequently during the duration of the project, rather
than for a single two-year term. Supervision missions should regularly review the progress
of training given to local managers by expatriate advisors.
(1) IDA mnd the Government should have made sure that a proper accounting system was
implemented by both plantations early on. The adequacy of the system adopted was not
properly evaluated.
(g)   Project Supervision Committees are effective only when the members and the Government
show comnmitment. The Project Supervisory Committee, in this case, never fully played its
role.



PROJECT COMPLEFION REPORT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REIUABLITATION PROJECT
(CREDIr 1830-ST
March 12, 1993
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   PetIett
Project Name          : Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
Credit Number         : Cr. 1830-STP
RVP Unit              : Africa
Country               : Sao Tome and Principe
Secter                : Agriculture
2.    ackdnd
2.1 Since 1984, the Government's main objective has been to improve real incomes, mainly
hrough the rehabilitation of the pre-dominant cocoa sector and the promotion of food crops.
The Government has actively sought foreign investment, and has adopted a new investment
code to provide a greater role for the private sector in the state-run economy. Following
FDA's review of the country's economic situation in 1985, the Governme decided to embark
on a far-reaching program of macroeconomic adjustment which would ensure consistecy in
the exchange rate, monetary, fiscal, and incentive policies. These measures included a
devaluation of the currency sufficient to restore the viability of the cocoa subsector.
2.2  In 1987 the country faced its worst economic and financial crisis. Cocoa production,
which had been declining for some decades, reached a record low of 4,000 tons per year,
40% the 1975 level. The cocoa subsector - consisting of state enterprises created at
Independence - suffered from poor management, obsolete technology and absence of financial
resources and services. The performance of the sector was further undermined by
macroeconomic disincentives resulting from the overvaluation of the exchange rate and
neglect of the cocoa sector in the public investment program.
2.3  The Government's agricultwal development strategy aimed at rehabilitating the cocoa
sector; providing incentives to workers and improving the availability of agricultural support
services; promoting greater private sector involvement, particularly by foreigners; diversifying
production; and introducing social reforms to improve the standard of living of the rural
population. IDA's main objective in financing of the project was to assist the Government in



.mplementing this strategy, as any improvement in the country's economic conditions was
dependent on the rehabilitation of the cocoa subs3ctor. In addition, the project was the first
major step in implementing the Government's strategy to give autonomy to the state-owned
agricultural enterprises. Ihe project was to be Implemented in parallel with a Structural
Adjustment Credit providing the macro framework for increased cocoa production and
exports. Concessional financing from other donors resulted in the identification of
complementary projects.
3.   Project Obeetlves and Comnonents
prAojet bectives
3.1  The project sought to support the Government's efforts to achieve economic recovery
by increasing cocoa production and by contributing to the more general development of the
agdicltural sector. Specifically, the project was to: (i) increase cocoa production and
impwrove the social conditions of the workers in two cocoa plantations; (ii) strengthen STP's
agricultural sector though support services; and (ii) promote food crop production.
3.2 The project was a five-year time slice of a long-term rehabilitation program, and
included the followi .g components:
(a)   Plantadon Development entailed rehabilitating and expanding cocoa production,
and increasing labor productivity in the Uba Budo and Bela Vista ..tate
enteprises (EAs).
(b) Support to the Agrictltural Sector focussed on the cocoa and food crop
subsectors by:
(i)  strengthening applied research and technical support for cocoa;
(ii)  agricultural training;
(iii) introducing applied research and development activities for food crops;
(tv)  assisting other lEAs not benefiting from extemal assistance to develop
rehabilitation plans, or to restrucure their activities, in order to attract
financial support;
(v)  assistfng smallholders in increasing production hough import of inputs
and tools, as well as technical support and training; and
(vi) hiring consultants to assist the Government in formulating sector policies
and creating a favorable economic'and social environment for the
agriculdtre sector.
Pro1ect Caost
3.3  Total project costs were esdmated at US$21.8 million, of which IDA would provide
US$7.9 million.



-3 -
4.     oje  Desipg and OnAhnation
4.1   Miec F-inancing was expected from nine sources - IDA (US$7.9 million); BADEA
(US$ 6 mfllion); OPEC (US$1.1 milion); WFP (US$600,000); IFAD (US$1.9 million);
CCCE (US$1 million); USAIDIPORTUGAL (US$900,000); FAC/AFVP (US$300,000); and
the Governmeat (US$2.1 mfllion). Cocoa development, social infastructure and equipment
rehabilitation were to be financed by IDA, BADEA, OPEC, and the Government. Some
components were to be managed independently: food crop development by 1FADIFAC/
AFVP; training by USAID/PORTUGAL; and cocoa research by CCCE.
4.2  Plantatin M e. nThe project was to resolve major constraints in the cocoa
sector, which was suffering from poor management, obsolete technology and low labor
productivity. The Goverment was to hire foreign management firms under nine-year term
management agreements t improve plantation management. It recruited the French firm,
Societ6 de Realisation et de Gestion de Projets Cafe & Cacao (SOCA 2), and the Portuguese
firm Francisco Mantero, to manage Uba Budo and Bela Vista respectively. Although it would
have been less expensive to recruit one firm managing both EEAs, the Government wanted to
maintain competition and compare the firms' performance.
4.3 The firms were to: (i) start investment programs to modernize the plantations through
rehabilitation, replanffng, and construction and/or repair of existing infucture; (ii) set up
administrative, financial and management systems to ensure technology transfer, and (iii)
focus on increasing labor productivity by introducing salary incentives, developing food crop
production and Improving social infrastucture. The management contract specified that each
firm could take charge of an additional EEA if financing were to become available. The
contracts also contained two important features: (a) part of the fims' remuneration was linked
to technical performance, and (b) the firms were expeced to train local managers to take over
management after nine years. The management contracts gave the fims the power to manage
the labor force efficiently, inluding the authority to recruit and discharge, distrbute
incentives and re-establish basic consumer goods stores for the workers. The project financed
the management contracts, agricultural ilpUtS and machinery, civil works, and equipment for
both EEAs.
4.4 Considering the different agronomic conditions of the two EEAs, Bela Vista
emphasized rehabilitation and Uba Budo focussed on replanting. Of the 2,100 ha cocoa in
Bela Vista, 1,735 were to be rehabilitated (of which 200 replanted) and the remaning area,
unsuiable for cocoa production, was to be allocated to food crops or reforested. Given the
poor state of the trees in Uba Budo, an intensive replanting schedule of 1,500 ha and
rehabilitation of 300 ha was envisaged.
4.5   Improvement of Planation Workers' Conditions. The EEAs were to demarcate 250
ba for food cultivation by 1,000 workers. Assistance to workers included agricultural
extension on food crop production through the FAC/IFAD-financed Mesquita Project and
subsidized food under a three-year World Food Program project. WFP counterpart funds
were earmarked for repair of existing social amenities and contruction of additional housing
under a self-help approach. OPEC was expected to fund the foreign exchange costs.



4-
4.6   AgiculMW- Suppr Seic  were planned in line with the GovernLent's strategy to
strengthen the agricultural sector and diversify STP's agricultural base. The project was to
strengthen: O) applied reseach and technical support services for cocoa, and (ii) food crop
applied research and development activities. Initially, cocoa applied research was
strengthened with the establishment of a small Cocoa Applied Research and Development Unit
at the Agricultural Experimental Station in Potd to monitor and provide technical support in
particular to the EEAs being rehabilitated wih external financing. The Unit was charged with
developing optimal technologies, including production of hybrid seeds. Financing of the Unit
was proO,ided by IDAICCCEIFAC. Similarly, fod crop development was to be strengthened
with the creation of the Food Crop Development Unit, adjunct to the Mesquita Project, to
select, test, and introduce seeds adaptable to local conditions. The project was financed by
IWAD. A study was to assess the feasibflity of developing a center for seed producton and
improved vegetable material.
4.7  Training of national staff to replace expatriates at the end of the project was to be given
by: (i) the management fims in planation management and application of modern
technologies; (ai) the technical assistance teams of the research units at Pot6 and Mesquita;
and (iii) the Center for Professional Agricultural Training (CENFOPA), a program financed
by USAIDIICE at Bela Vista for training of plantation foremen, administration staff, and
smaliholders.
4.8 In support of private sector initiative the project provided inputs, small tools aSL.
machinery to smallholders. These items were imported by Mesquita and sold on a cash or
credit basis to the farmers. Cocoa producers had access to 30% of the foreign exchange
generated by their exports for imports of inputs. They could request private importers to
import the required inputs on their behalf. To rehabilitate other EEAs, the Project Support
Unit (PSU), with the assistance of shortterm consultants, was to prepare a rehabilitation
action plan. lechnical support to those EEAs was to be given by the Cocoa Applied
Research and Development Unit at Pot6 and the management firms.
4.9   %Wdies and consulting services were intended to formulate and assist implemention of
agricultural sector policies. The stdies planned under the project included: (i) land tenure;
(ii) cocoa marketing; Qii) impact of cocoa rebabilitation and food crop diversification on the
ecology; (iv) fuelwood needs by the cocoa industry, the extent of deforestation, and a forest
inventory; (v) incentives for foreign investment; and (i) reorganizaion and training needs of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP). Tle PSU and MAP's Planning Department
were responsible for preparing the terms of reference and the supervision of these studies.
About 10 man-months of consultancies for studies were to be financed under the project.
4.10 Moniodng of the project was to be done by PSU which would strengthen the
Government's project monitoring capacity. PSU was situated in MAP and was fully
accountable to the Minister, who provided general direction on policy issues concerning the
project. PSU was to be headed by an expatriate project coordinator recruited for an initial
two-year period, and a deputy local project coordinator. The PSU's role was to: (i) ensure
exchange of information between the various entities and individuals concerned with the
project; (Hi) act as the central entity in project administration; and (iii) monitor and evaluate
project progress.



- 5 -
4.11 PSU was responsible for preparing progress reports and consolidated reports for MAP,
IDA and other concernd agencies, in addition to other reports issued directly by other project
entities. SOCA 2 and MANTERO were responsible for preparing semi-annual progress
reports for the Government and foreign donors. The second semester report provided a
comprehensive review of progress during the year, including a detailed investmnent/work
program and budget proposal for the following year.
4.12 IDA was to carry out several supervision missions and a mid-term review to: (i) assess
progress in the project components; (ii) resolve problems encountered during implementation;
(iii) assess the possibility of extending foreign assistance to other EEAs; (iv) discuss and agree
on a plan to carry out institutional reforms in applied research, training and agricultural
services; and (v) review whether the internationally recruited project coordinator would be
retained for the full project duration.
4.13 A Project Supervisory Committee including representatives from MAP and each of the
manrgement firms was to oversee the execution of the project. The Committee was to meet
at least twice a year to review the EEA's work plans and budgets.
S.   Project Implementation
5.1  In general, the project was implemented as designed. The management firms were
recruited and executed their program effectively within the existing financial and agronomic
constraints. Lack of cofinancing and low international cocoa prices hampered smooth project
implementation. The planned social infiastructure works and studies were only pardy
executed. Project supervision by PSU was weak.
5.2     lementati  R. The project was implemented on schedule but, because of lack
of cofinancing, it closed two years earlier than was foreseen. The Credit became effective on
February 1988, five months after the signing date, but pre-project activities -preparation of
nurseries and planting- were well underway, and the management firms had already been
selected before credit effectiveness. They had initiated preparatory activities in 1986 (e.g.,
nurseries, planting, and establishment of an accounting system) under short-term contracts
financed by three PPF advances totalling US$1.3 million and an additional US$500,000 from
the line of Credit for Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization. Selection of the project
coordinator and advisor took over one year and both took up their positions several months
after credit effectiveness.
5.3  Plantation Management. Technical execution of the project was satisfactory. The
foreign management firms showed a high level of technical competence and carried out the
plantation rebabilitation program as far as possible within the reduced financial envelope.
State of the art technology was used at Uba Budo where imported high-yielding hybrids were
introduced. Bela Vista focussed on densification with mostly local varieties and continuous
renovation. The firms faced problems of excess labor, low labor productivity, low local
management capability, lack of discipline, and high absenteeism (up to 20%). By the time of
the project completion, both EEAs had streamlined the number of workers by some 30% and
considerably reduced absenteeism. As management fees were partly linked to rehabWlitation
and replanting, cost-efficient production was not the firms' main concern. At one stage, a
contract for the procurement of a US$3.5 million cocoa drying unit for Bela Vista was signed.



-6-
Formuately, the deal fell through for lack of BADEA financing. The drying unit wUi now be
purchased for $450,000. An IDA supervision mission had to curtail excessive fertilizer
purchases for Blela Vista
5.4  Tbe firms shoved lide interest in training local managers, although MANTERO
employed more local staff than SOCA 2. The firms (especially SOCA 2) argued that mid-
level expatriates had a Ibakground in tropical agriculture, were available full-time, and had
more authority over workers than local staff. In their view, training in this nine-year contract
was not urgent and had lower priority than achieving technical results.
5.5  The accounting systems introduced under the project are complex and do not allow for
easy understanding of daily operations and financial analysis. Record keeping in Bela Vista
did not allow calculation of production costs of rehabilitation, densification, replanting or
harvesting. Uba Budo, however, has introduced cost accounting and Bela Vista is now
following. IDA approved the adoption by both EEAs of what was believed to be the OCAM
(Organization Communautaire Africaine et Malagache) accounting system in 1988 and it has
been used ever since. As implemented, it turned out to be a mixture of the Portuguese
ccounting system and some OCAM accounts, and both firms differ slightly in its application.
'Me Governmet is planning to make OCAM official for the country. Training was
conducted for the firms' accountants and Mmistry of Finance and Economic Planning staff.
5.6 Plans to rehabilitate other plantations were presented by the foreign management firms
but were not accepted by Government becase of the high costs and lack of financing.
5.7 Proiect Einanci. Project implementation suffered from the downward trend in
interational cocoa prices (average price of US$1,000 per ton compared to appraisal estmates
of US$2,400 per ton) and delayed adjustmts of the exchange rate. The former adversely
affected the EEAs' financia position and the Government's ability to comply with its fincial
commitments. High export taxes (22% in 1989) and import charges on agricultral inputs
further worsened the EEAs' financial position. The EEAs had to recourse frequendy to short-
term commercial loans and to the Government for budgetary support. The total Government
contribution to the project was in the order of US$1.3 million, short of the US$2.1 million
committed. The Government was urged on various occasions to take the necessary steps to
meet its commitments. Although Government fhnds were delayed, workers' salaries were
always paid on time.
5.8  The project also faced financial constaints because of shortfalls in funds from BADEA
(US$6 million) and OPEC (US$0.9 million) due to Government failure to settle previous
arrears with those instihuions. Although this financing was important for plantation
development -BADEA funds represented 50% of Uba Budo's development costs - it did not
seriously affect the project results. In order not to delay project execution, part of the IDA
credit resources were directed to capital investments and agricultural inputs. The Goverrunent
obtained a PPF to fiace the Agricultr Privaization and Smallholder Development Froject
preparation and used part of the funds to finance management fees during the transition feriod
between both projects. Increased drying capacity, which would have been financed by
BADEA and OPEC funds, will now be financed by MA under APSDP.



-7 -
5.9 Other cofinancing was not implemented as designed. IFAD withdrew its contibution
to the project and decided to support food crop diversifieation on a stand-alone basis through
the Pilot Food Crop Development Project. Similarly, the CCCE channeled most of its funds
through the Santa Margarida Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.
5.10 Improvement of Plantation Workers' Conditions. Because of extenal fund shortages,
social infrastructure works - improvement of day-care nurseries, schools and living quarters,
medical assistance, water supply and sanitary installations - were financed by counterpart
funds from the sale of WFP products. The full investment progrm was not realized because
Government needed WFP counterpart funds to pay plantation workers' salaries.
S.11  Studies. Some studies were not carried out because of low institutional capacity. The
credit only financed the land tenure, forestry and the cocoa marketing studies. lhe studies on
agricultural credit and food crOp diversification were financed from other sources. The
training needs and reform of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR)
will be funded by the Agricultural Privatization and Smallholder Development Project.
5.12 Monitoring. Overall project monitoring was weak. The splitting up of the project in
several components made coordination difficult. A local, instead of an expatiate, PSU
coordinator was hired, and the expatriate became an advisor. Moreover, the coordinator went
overseas for a one-year training course which prevented effective team work with the
expatriate advisor and on-the-job trainig. The Project Supervisory Committee only convened
to carry out field inspections and to confirm rehabilitated and replanted area estimates.
Reporting by the management firms was excellent, but PSU produced only three reports.
6. Poet Results
6.1  The technical and economic results of the project were satisfactory, thougb below
original targets. As a result of the project, both plantations are now being leas  to the
private sector for a period of 20 yeas. Low international cocoa prices considerably reduced
the project benefits. Lack of cofinancing reduced the projects social impact The
strengthening of local agricultural research and creation of training institutions by cofinanciers
enhanced the country's institutional capacity.
Plantation Management
6.2  Techncal Results. In spite of low world cocoa prices, and the absence of cofinancing
from BADEA and OPEC, the project achieved satisfactory results. Overestimation of yields
and production during appraisal overshadows actual performance.
(a)   Bela Vista. The Bela Vista rehabilitation program is on target: 1,735 ha are
rehabilitated of which 200 ha have been replanted. The management firm has
focussed on densification with traditional amelonado seedlings and hybrids.
Through cost savings the rehabilitation program has been completed with an
expenditure of only 33% of the original appraisal estimate. Yields are about 400
kg/ha (40%) lower than projected and production is some 50% short of SAR
estimates. Production and yields did not respond as much as anticipated to
fertilizing under shade conditions. As shade removal was environmentally



unsustainable, IDA recommended eliminating fertilizer applications. Production
should improve with the maturing of the young replants.
(b)   Uba Budo. A total of 1,015 ha out of a planned 1,500 ha has been replanted.
The 300 ha rehabilitation target has been dropped and all activities have
concentrated on replanting with hybrid, high yielding material from Cdte-
d'lvoire, Gabon, and Cameroon. Replanting got behind schedule because of
delays in seedling deliveries from COte-d'lvoire, which has banned hybrid cocoa
seed exports. Yields were below appraised levels every year, as the plantation
was in worse condition than anticipated during appraisal. However, the current
yield of nearly 300 kg/ha shows a 100% improvement compared to the before-
project sittation. When the young plants come to full maturity, yields are
expected to be in the order of 1,200 kg/ha. Investment costs per ha (about
US$3,800) are lower than SAR estimates ($4,000), but are expected to increase
to $5,000 at the end of the replanting program. By December 1992, only 38%
of the original budget had been spent.
6.3 Although technical and management performance of both management firms was
satisfactory, cost savings could have been made by avoiding planting on difficult slopes (Uba
Budo) and in unsuitable areas (Bela Vista). Cocoa sun drying at Uba Budo has proved to be
cost-effective since the process does not consume fuel wood and improves product quality
(lower acidity). Sun drying, however, is not practical on a large scale.
6.4 Economic and F;nancial Results. The SAR estimated an Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) on the project investments over 25 years of 29% for Bela Vista and 18% for Uba
Budo. At mid-term review the ERR was estimated at 15% and 8%, respectively. Current
ERR estimates for Bela Vista are 15% and for Uba Budo 12%, taking into count further
support to both plantations under the Smallholder and Agricultural Privatization Project.
Actual financial returns are negative for both plantations, mainly because of the present low
cocoa prices and the prevailing export taxes. This discourages private sector investment in
cocoa. Export levies are now being reviewed. Further labor productivity gains and cost
reductions are possible under the lease contracts.
Improvement of Plantation Workers' Conditions
6.5  The management contracts gave the firms authorization to manage their staff efficiently
in conformity with the existing labor legislation. The firms encountered difficulties
dismissing workers under the existing laws. Nevertheless they were able to reduce surplus
labor by some 30%. Salary incentives were introduced successfully and absenteeism was
reduced by at least half. But wages are deteriorating as they are determined by Government
and have not kept up with inflation. Under the lease contracts, wages will be negotiated
between labor representatives and leaseholders.
6.6  Food crop development and social infrastructure improvements were other means used
to enhance labor productivity. Although the Mesquita project provided extension services, the
workers' lack of land and weak financial capacity to purchase inputs and tools limited its
impact on food crop production. Uba Budo distributed the coffee areas to the workers in
exchange for 50% of the coffee production. Improvements in social infrastructure were



.9-
minimal because the WFP counterpart funds were used for salaries and OPEC/BADEA
funding was not forthcoming. Nevertheless, repairs to living quarters and construction of
sanataY facilities and water supply took place. The plantations Improved roads and provided
child care centers as well as medical care. They re-established general stores for the sale of
basic consumer goods to workers. Uba Budo privatized its stores.
Agdicqurlhn Suppor Services
6.7 Research. Support to ths cocoa sector suffered from the late start of the Cocoa
Applied Research and Development Unit. CCCE-funding was delayed and the project only
took off in 1991. At present, the Unit has an expatriate advisor and an agronomist working
full time, and renovation of installations is ongoing. Production of local bybrid seeds is
underway. Bela Vista, Uba Budo, Diogo Vaz and Santa Margarida plantations have already
acquired seeds from the Unit. IDA provided $25,000 for infrastructure improvements.
6.8 Food Crop Development. The Food Crop Development project also suffered delays.
Funding started in 1990. lbis project has achieved important progress inroducing, testing,
and adapting crops to local conditions. The project, however, does not provide marketing
assistance. More attention should be given to this aspect, particularly to the prospects in
foreign markets for Sbo Tomean products. Technical assistance by the Mesquita Food Crop
Development Unit has benefitted some 2,500 small farmers.
iani
6.9 Although the foreign management firms failed to train local counterpart managers to
eventually take over management of the plantations, technical training of local staff was a
success. The management firms, Mesquita and CENFOPA sponsored training of a dozen
technical staff abroad. Although the impact of the training by CENFOPA is not yet known,
the Center has exceeded the original goals. CENFOPA trained about 310 workers from six
plantations, including foremen, farm machine operators, mechanics, electricians, and animal
farmers. CENFOPA also conducted seminars in cocoa, coffee, pepper and pig firming.
Studies
6.10 The studies carried out under the project were useful in helping the Government
redefine agricultural sector policies. The land tenure study is the basis for the privatization of
agriculture currendy underway, and the forestry study provided usefil information on land
use maters. The marketing study was of litde value. The Crop Diversification was financed
under an IDA SPPF; the Agricultural Sector Credit study was financed under the financial
sector reform; technical assistance on the reform and training needs of the MADR will be
financed under the Agriculture Privatization and Smaliholder Development Project.



- 10-
7.          S stalablt
7.1  Tbe project succeeded in promting the sustaal  deolPmet o a Sva cocoa
plantation sector. Both foreign managemt firms are sg     a pltao    lae cona
which will bting private capital into the plantations. Ne studies fau;d by the proJet wee
instrumetal in defining a new agricultural development strategy focussg on: f) pdivate
sector development throgh land distnbution; (ii) food crop devdopment and crop
diversification; and (Oii) forest protection. In spite of low cocoa prics and other unavwo
macroeconomic condidons, the project also made sustinable dfficien  gaW through th
rehabilitation of the two plantations. Bela Vista showed a profit in 1991 while Uba Budo wa
able to cover its operating expenses. 'he management fims trained local staff in technial
aspects of agriculture, which may be very usefil when these staff will own agricultural land.
S.   Bank Perormance
8.1 - Bank price-forecasts at apprai  were too opfimistic and a a result project cash flows
were lower than assumed, thereby reducing avability of funds. IDA supervision missions
detected early the main financial problems, and rated the project accordingly. IDA effectively
moved to reallocate finds to compensate for the lack of cofinancing and to allow the projec
to move ahead. IDA actively tried -athough unsuccessfully- to persuade the Govermet to
settle prior arrears with BADEA and OPEC so that their funds become available. IDA abo
assisted with the procurement of more cost-effective cocoa bean drying equipment. The
Borrower saes that IDA missions were adequately staffed, with enoug  chnical sills.
9. hBore's ffoffne
9.1  The Borrower complied with the etial legal an fiacW  condi     and cvant
of the credit agreement. However, low cocoa prices and a tight budgetary siuation prevented
the Borrower from providing timely counterpart funds. lbe Borrower could aso not repod
to BADEA and OPEC conditions for the release of their fund.
9.2  Bureucratic procedures delayed the fulfillmet of disburement condition and t
recruitment of the PSU coordinator. There was a lack of interest by the Government in
making the Project Supervisory Committee operational. The Commitee was not appoited by
the Government, and operated for a while as an informal group.
9.3  Toe PSU did not operate as expected, except during the two-year term of the expatiat
advisor. Delays in processing disbursement requests dowed down the project actes, and
PSU did not carry out proper project follow-up and reporti. A satactory accounti
system has not yet been set up.
.,0.
10. lbTehial Assistance and NM_tm Contracts
10.I  Both management firms showed seriousness in their commime  to reach project
production goals. SOCA 2 received a plantation in deteriorated conditos and management
showed a bigh level of competence. MANTERO conceatd on the rhabilitadon throug
densification of the plantation using traditional techniques. aere is no evidece that one
particular approach is more efficient. Much depends on the evolution of the coa pries.



lbe manemen oontts amounted to US$1.8 million for Wa Budo and US$875,000 for
BDela Vista which Is more than 50% of plantion development cosu.
it. ProJe D_OMMUf and Data
11.1 Project covenas were clearly stipulated for effective implembention. The project
SA  w, however, based on opmic  projections for inte ional cocoa prices and project
achievement potential. lb. SAR did not include sufficient description of trWaining programs.
Reporting by thc management firms was excellent. 'Me PSU produced only three repo.
12.  rang  and Imo            ed
12.1 lhe Govemment and the Bank will benefit from the following findings and lessons:
(a)  In designing a commodity development program, the risk of adverse trends in
4 world market prices and exchange rate policies should be subject to more
rigorous analysis. Cufrency overvaluation penalizes exporters, and may
jeopardize such projects.
(b)   Ihe private management flrms were successfid In imprving the technical
efficiency of the project. The management fees, however, were more than 50%
Of the plantation development costs. At cumnt low cocoa prices, such high fees
are not justified. Moreover, since the firms did not share financial risk, cost-
effective production was not always their top priority.
(c) The training component should have been more clearly specified, especially for
training of plantation managers. Guidelines and benchmarks should mave been
established with clearer objectives in mind.
(d)  Key project components should be  Wded by a primary donorlender and not
through cofinncing. The project was to be finced by multiple donors, but
few donors came forward with the agreed amount and in the agreed format, and
the project complexity was substatally inreased though its cofinncing
arrangemenlts.
(e) The PSU could have been more efficient if the expatriate advisor had been
available on a short-term basis more frequenty during the duration of the
project, ather t   for a single two-year term. Supervision missions should
regularly eview the progress of trag given to local managers by expatria
advisors.
(f) IDA and the Government should have made sure that a proper accouning system
was implemented by both EEAs early on. The adequacy of the system adopted
was not properly evaluated.
(g) Project Supervision Committees are effective only when the members and the
Government show commitment. The Project Supervisory Committee, in this
case, never filly played its role.



- 12-
PROJECT COMPLE=ION REPORT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
COCOA REHABILiXATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 183(6FP
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERPRS
1.   Connment on the Anabl Contained i Plart I of the Draft 1C
1.1 Ihe analysis on Project Idencicagion,  ground, Project objecdves and design which
are contained in sections I  rugh 12 are acceptable.
1.2  'Me lack of efficiency of the PSU was due, to some extent, to the involvement of the
Unit in the elaboradon of land policies, which distracted PSU fom its main role. The
Government agre  with the comment that the expatriate techical assistance would have been
better utilized if a consultant had advised the Unit from time to time for the duration of the
project rather than for a consecutive two-yew period.
1.3  The delays in Government funding were due to several fos. Exchange rate
adjustments to compemate for the drop in cocoa prices were greater than necessary. Large
devaluations led to a sharp increase in the price level and a drop in purchasing power. lTus
the Government was obliged to compensate for the loss in purcaing power using all sou
of available funds. Consequendy, socW works suffered.
1.4  The Govemment feels that management of Uba Budo was more efficient than of Bda
Vista. Consideing that at the start of the project the Uba Budo plantatio was in a
deteriorated state compared to Bela Vista, management showed a high level of teci
capacity as demonstrated by their use of state of the art technology. On the other hand, Bela
Vista was better at employing local expertise than Uba Budo.
1.5  The Govermment considers the investments a very expensive opetion.
2.   Bank Perfot nance During the Evolution and Implinnatten of the IOQt
2.1   During the implementaton of the project, there were severa IDA supervision missios.
As a result, adequate financial control of the project was ensured through proper auditing.
The Government believes that the level of competence of the mission members was quite
adequate and they did their best so that the project could reach its completion with good
results. IDA recommended some studies within the studies component of the project. Some
of these studies made recommendations not suited to the realities of the country. However,
there were others which served as a good basis for reflection by the Government, notably the
study on the reorganization of the agricultural export sector, wh;A presented a gener
overview of the sector.



- 13 -
2.2  IDA gready faciliated the execution of the project as regards adjustmes in
disbursements and expenditures, given the lack of cofinancing.
3.  I' .e              e
3.1 Although the Government of Sbo Tome and Prfncipe signed the credit agreement on
September 2, 1987, It was operational only on January 20, 1989. 'his result was due to the
lack of experience with IDA procedure in complying with the conditions for effectiveness.
On the other band, after the project became operational, it was executed well in spite of some
initial obstacles. The project benefitted from the PSU which, even without initial technical
assistance, was able to operate fairly well undl an expatriate adviser could be hired who
helped improve the implemenation process.
3.2  The Government always had the ffrm intention of fdlfilling IDA conditions. However,
initially, financing from the Government could not be made available to the managing firms
because of macroeconomic constraints. This situation led the Government to reschedule its
debt service with BADEA and OPEC in several occasions. Nevertheless, the Government
made the financing available to the firms, although with some delays.
4. Relationshig Between the Bank and the Borrower
4.1  During the project execution, relations between the Govenment and IDA were cordial.
MDA tried hard to obtain good results in the absence of cofinancing. The Government, on its
part, also tried to collaborate as best as it could in spite of its financial difficulties.



- 14-
PROJECT COMAPLEION REPORT
SAO TOME AND PRMNCIPE
COCOA REHABILrATION PROJECT
(CREDfT 1830-T)
PART m. SIATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans or Crdits
Loan/Credit Title       Pur                  Year of Aprova}
Cr.150-STP              Support of           1985                     Completed
Moderization Line of    institutional reforms                         12/31/1991
Credit                  and investments in
ariculture, transport
and energy.
Cr.2325-STP             Privatize agricultural   1992                 Underway
Agricultural            land and production,
Privatization and       diversify production,
Smallkolder             and reform and
Development Project    rehabilitate the cocoa
sector.
2. Pro3e   lTmgJA
Date Plann             Actual Dat
Identification                    10/84
Preparation                                               2/85
Appraisal Mission                 34/85                 9-10/85
Loan Negotiations                 2/86                    5/87
Board Approval                    3/86                    6187
Loan Signature                    8/86                    9/87
Loan Effectiveness                12/87                   2/88
Completion                        12/93                  12/91
Loan Closing                      12/94                  03/93



3. Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$000)
1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995
Appraisai Estimate            1,760    2,330    3,230    4,380    5,530    6,610    7,510    7,900
Actual                        3,632    4,970    6.926    7,589    7,910
Actuai as % of Estimate         206      213      214       173      143
Date of final Disbursement: 12116192 for $8,020
Comments: Follow-up project approved                                                                               U
Name:                      Agricultural Privatization and Smaliholder Development
Loan No.:                  Cr. 2325-STP
Loan Amount/Project Cost:  US$9.8 millionlUS$17.5 million
Date of Board Approval:    06123187
Date of Effeciveness:      02105188
Project Description:       The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural
production through privatization of publicly-owned agricultural
land and promotion of smallholder agriculture through:
(i) distibution and lease (on a usufruct basis) of a large part
of publicly-owned estates to the private sector; () reduction
of the surplus unproductive estate laborers and 'ncrease in labor
productMty on the remaining private estates; (iii) leare of
the financially viable estates and nucleus processing facilities
to the private sector; (iv) completion of the on-going investment
in cocoa rehabilitation; and (v) strengthening the agricultural
support services and administration.



4. A. Project Costs
(US$ 000)
Appraisal Estimate  ---   Actual
Local         FE         Total       Local         FE         Total
Plantatlon Development                   1,814      12,066       13,880       1,435       4,778        6,212
Support to the Agricultural Sector        388        4,891        5$279         718        5,128       5,846
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                     2,202      16,957       19,159       2,153        9,906      12,058
Percent                                    11           89         100           18          82          100
4. B. Project Fnancing
(US$000)
Percent
Source               Planned      Actual     Realized
IDA                   7,900        7,910         100
Government            2,100        i,311          62
BADEA                 6,000           -            0
IFAD                  1,900         720           38
CCCE                   1,000         388          39
OPEC                   1,100         154          14
USAID & Portugal        900        1,180         131
WFP                     600          600         100
FAC &AFVP               300          386         129
Total                 21,800      12,648          58



- 17 -
S. Allocation and Use of Loan Proceeds
(US$000)
Appraisal     Actual until    Actual as Y
Category                               Estimate    Closing Date    of Appraisal
(1-2) Plantation Development              5,896          6,003            102
A. Management Services                 3,601          3,432             95
B. Technical Assistance                 208             129             62
C. Civil Works                          299             188             63
D. Equipment, Machinery
& Vehicles                           1,203          1,464            122
E. Agricultural Inputs                  585             789            135
(3) Technical Assistance,
Training & Studies                      494             444             90
(4) PSU Office Equipment &
Supplies                                104             180            173
(5) Refinancing of PPFs                   1,437          1,283             89
TOTAL                                     7,930          7,910            100



6. Project Results
-YR1-   -YR2--  -YR3-   -YR4                           YR6-  -- YR1O-   - Total-
SAR Actual  SAR Actual  SAR Actual  SAR Actual  SAR Actual  SAR  Now Est. SAR Actual
Hectares
BELA VISTA                    .           6
Replanting                  $0     4       0    24    8      0              010    8
Rehabilitation            1423   2:'   66   637   .6  ,              _      -   .155  1464
Maintenance                  2         J&60   1074  i :. :98 1735  1676           1     5                      -
Total                   1736 ::a   1735  1736  1                1735  1735  173                           15
UBA BUDO
Replanting                -10    :4   400    78   400   25    400   298   20   :190 1000  1015
Densification               20 . 2  280          -                              :     . -  -_ -     300              0
Maintenance                                                       1       01680   >;i  1120 102,5  :   1t00 10256
Total                   1.00  t209  1800  1103  1800  1290  1800  1323  10.12                             1800 .101
00
;Yields (Kglha)        -b
BELA VISTA
Maintained & Rehabilitated  280   22   350   383  ' 400   .... 500   380   700i  400  1200            564
Replanting                 200           100     -    50 :         150   160   360   248  150    1O00
UBA BUDO
Maintained & Rehabilitated  150  136    300   276 : 600   240   800   280   800   272   800           490
Replanting                 .909 70               -    60        ' 300       - 6              1620    1200
Production (Tons)
BELA VISTA                 554   r44       5                      1119   660 . 3             1642    1080
4 Hybrlds                 494
0Hybrids of 1986



. 19-
7. Status of Covenants
ArtickleI                    The Credit Coven;nts                hservation
Section 2.02      (b)   Open and maintain in BNSTP: (i)         Complied.
Special account for Part A, (ii) for Part
B, and (iii) for Part C for the purposes
of Parts C,D and E of the project.
Article 1I                  Execution of the Project
Section 3.03      (a)   Establish and thereafter maintain a     Complied.
Project Support Unit (PSU) in the
MAP, reporting directy to the Minister.
(b)   PSU shall be adequately staffed with a  Complied.
Project Coordinator, a Deputy
Coordin4lor, and at least one support
staff in charge of administrative
services.
(c)   PSU shall be responsible for (i) flow of  Items (J) and (ii)
information between all parties; (ii)  executed with delays,
overall project administration including  and (iii) not at all.
flow of project funds; (iii) monitoring
and evaluation of progress achieved in
project execution.
Section 3.04            Not Later than 3/31/88:
(a)   Adopt measures to provide the EEAs     Complied.
with effective management autonomy.
(b)  Elaborate and implement a flexible      Complied.
salary system for field workers and
team leaders.
(c)   Permit the EEAs to hire and dismiss    Complied.
redundant and undisciplined staff.
Section 3.05      (a)   Not later than 12/31187: furnish IDA    Complied.
draft statutes for EEAs for its review.
(b)  Ensure that statutes come into force    IDA and GSTP
promptly after IDA's approval.          approved the statutes,
but in practice they
proved difficult to
enforce.



- 20 -
Section 3.06      (a)   Not later than 12/31/87 the EEAs must  Item (i) was complied
() establish criteria as to who is entitled  with. Item (ii) was
to reside in the EEAs; and (ii) confirm  applied to workers
the rights of EEA workers to reside on  permanently employed
the EEAs with their families.          in the EEAs.
(b)  Relocate families not entitled to reside  Not complied with. Due
on the EEAs.                           to a shortage of
housing, the GSTP has
not taken any action in
that regard.
Section 3.07      (a)   Ensure that agricultural equipment and  Not applicable. Has
inputs are available to smallholders.  been transferred to
IFAD project.
(b)  Not later than 12/31/88 review the      Same as above.
system of import and sale of such
equipment and inputs.
(c)   Modify the system.                     Same as above.
Section 3.08      (a)   Not use or permit the EEAs to use      Complied with.
chemicals detrimental to the           Recommendation from
environment.                           AFTEN were sent to
both firms.
(b)  Not later than 9/30/88 submit to IDA    Complied. Very few
for approval a plan to monitor and     chemicals used.
control residues in streams and other
parts of the biosphere.
(c)   EEAs to train workers in safe use of   Complied.
chemicals.
Section 3.09      Not later than 9/30/88 exchange views with
IDA in the areas referred in Part E-4:
(i)  Identification of land and crops for    Still in progress.
diversification and private smallholder
development.
(ii)  Improvement of land tenure and         New legislation
distribution system.                   introduced; land
distribution under way.



-21 -
(iii) Cocoa Marketing Study.                Report was available in
February 1990.
(iv)  Role, organization, manpower planning  Study to be done under
and training needs of MAP.            new project.
Part E-5:
(i)   Effects of Cocoa Rehabilitation program  Forestry inventory &
and crop diversification on the ecology.  wood (fuel) demand &
supply study was done.
(ii)  Assessment of the need and scope for  Complied. Financing
financial services.                   committed under new
project.
(iii)  Studies for project preparation and  Done in the context of
implementation in the agricultural    the new PPF.
sector.
Section 3.10      (a)  Undertake a joint interim review of the  Done in 2/90.
project in cooperation with EEAs not
later than 12/31/89.
(b)  Take measures to implement the         Complied.
recommendations of the review.
Section 3.11      Not later than 6/30/91 submit to IDA for    Complied.
review a plan to pursue objectives of project
after its completion.
Article 1                        FTnanda:
(a)   Maintain records and accounts for Parts  Complied.
C,D and E.
(b)  Furnish to IDA, not later than six     Submitted late every
months after the end of each year, a  year, latest on 7192.
certified copy of audit report.
Section 4.02      (b)  The EEAs are to firnish to IDA:        Complied.
(i)   Not later than four months after
end of FY the accounts, including
Special Accounts.



22 -
(ii)  Not later than six months after  Complied with delays.
end of FY certified copies of
financial statements and reports of
auditors.
Section 4.03      (a)   Permit the EEAs to deposit at least 30%  Complied.
of their foreign exchange revenues in
accounts in fully convertible currencies
in foreign commercial banks.
(b)  Export taxes on cocoa sales not to      Complied. Gradually
increase beyond current levels.        reduced to 9% by the
time of the PCR
completion.
Section 4.07      The EEAs to submit to IDA not later than
9130 of each year:
(a)   A draft budget and work program for    Complied.
the following year and projections of
both for subsequent year.
(b)  A five-year investment program,         Complied.
incl'iding their investment budget for the
four subsequent years.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff lnuts
(Staff Weeks)
MM       FY85 FY86           FY87    FY88        F89      F09_1   FY92    TOTAL
Preappralsal        43.7     59.9                                                                        103.6
Appraisal                               61.9     13.7                                                     75.6
Negotiations                                     11.8                                                     11.8
Supervision                                       0.1     12.1     25.0       8.0     12.1      3.0       60.3
TOTAL               43.7       u        61.      25       12.1                        12.1      3_.      251.3
1B, Mission D
No. of Man-days      Specializations Performance        Types of
Mission             Date  Persons   in Field     Representedat RatingabI Trend c Poblms dl 
Identification                                                        _        _        _
Preappralsal                                                          -        -        -
Appraisal                                                             -        -        -
Supervision 1       9187        2        14                a,c        2        -
Supervision 2       3/88        2        10                a,c        2        2        0
SupevIsion 3      8-9188        3        10               a,b,c       2        2       F,T
Supervision 4       5/89        2        10                a,b        2        2      F,O
Supervision 5      10/89        1         7                  c        2        2      F,O
Supervision 6     1-2190        3        54               b,c,d       2        2    F,M,T
Supervision 7   10-11190        1        13                  c        1        1      F,O
Supervision 8     2-3191        3        42               a,c,e       1        1        F
Supervision 9       6/91        2        16                a,c        2        2        F
Supervision 10      7/92        1         4                  c        2        2        F
al a-Agriculturist; b=Financial Analyst; c-Agricultural Economist;
d=cocoa plantation management speciaiist; emeonomist
bI =wProblem free or minor problems; 2-Moderate problems
dl 1-Improving; 2-Stationary
dl F-Financial; M=Management; T-Technical; O=Other



9(Bil ECONOMIC BATE OF RETURN OF UMBA BUDO
Cashflow U8,A BUDQ                                     1993     1994      1995    ZQQQ    2005    2Q10    2015
Total Area (ha)                              1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800   1,800   1,8Q0    1,800   1,800
Of which Mature                              1,208    1,286    1,553    1.800   1,800   1,800   1.800   1.800
Production (ton)                               478      560      690       868   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600
Price (0 FOB)                                  950    1.142    1,181    1.220   1,415   1415   1,415   1.415
Exchange Rate (Db/$)                           320      320      320       320     320     320     320      320
Sales ('000 Dbi                            145312  204.646  26Q.765  338.867 724,480 724,480 7248  724
Produc5ion and Marketing Costs
Labor             Dblpd           360      28,174   30,913   37,579   44,784  57.960  57,960  57,960  57,960
Inputs            Db/ha         12.224     14,767   15.720   18.984   22.003  22,003  22.003  22003  22.003
Transport         Db/ton        12,923      6,177    7.237    8,917   11.217  20,677  20,677  20,677  20.677
Processing        Dblton        19,230      9,192   10.769   13,268   16,691  30,767  30,767  30.767  30.767
Overhead          % of sales        12     17.437   24,558   31.292   40,664  86,938  86,938  86,938  86,938
Marketing         % of sales       8.5     12.352   17.395   22,165   28,804  61,581  61,581  61,581  61,581
Other Costs       % of costs        5       4,405    5,330    6.610    8,208  13,996  13.996  13.996  13,996
Equipment Renewal  '000 Ob                 25.777   25,777   25,777   25,777  25,777  25,777  25.777  25.777
Export Taxes      % of sales        9      13,078   18.418   23,409   30.498  65,203  65,203  65.203  65.203
Total              '000 Db                 131,3j8  156.116  188,061  228.647 384.903 384.903 384.903 384.903
Gross Marain                                J3.9   4     30    72,704  11.22     339.577 339.577 39577 339.577
Investment d Manaaement Costs
Previous Investments (actualized)        1,545.472
Maintenance Immature Area                  81,228   70.046   45.640   16,766
Equipment & Material                      183.663   38,718
Management Fees                            40.000   40,000   40.000   40,000  40,000
IQti                oo D4                 1.850 363  148,764   115,040   56.766  40Q0
Cashfiow (excludina expoor taxes)       i014                                   3,7        1    404,784   404,781
Economic Rate of Retum                  [     12.051



9(11) ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN OF BELA VISTA
Cashflow BELA VISTA                           1992     1993      1994     1995    200     2qo5    2010    2015
Total Area (Ha)                              1,735    1.735    1,735    1,735   1,735   1,735   1,735   1,735
Production (ton)                               700      866    1.060    1,060   1,060   1,060   1,060   1,060
Price (FOB US$/Ton)                            950    1,142    1,181     1,220   1,415   1,415   1,415   1,415
Exchange Rate (Db/US$)                         320      320      320       320     320     320      320     320
Sales ('OO DOb)                            212.800  316.471  4Q00595  413.824 479,1   479.969 479.968 479.9
froduction and Marketina Costs
Labor              Dbipd           360      32,170   36.421   44,239   49,115  51,480  51.480  51,480  51,480
Inputs             Db/ha         12,224     21,209   21,209   21,209   21.209  21,209  21.209  21,209  21,209
Transport          Dblton        12,923      9,046   11,191    13,698   13,698  13,698  13,698  13,698  13,698
Processing         Db/ton        16,025     11.217   13,877   16,986   16,986  16.986  16,986  16,986  16,986
Overhead           % of sales        12     25.536   37,977   48.071   49.659  57,596  57,596  57,596  57,596
Marketing          % of sales       8.5     18,088   26,900   34,051   35,175  40.797  40.797  40,797  40,797
Oter costs         % of costs        5       5,863    7,379    8,913    9,292  10.088  10.088  10,088  10,088          A
Equipment Renewal   '000 Db                 14.960   14,960   14,960   14,960  14,960  14,960  14,960  14,960
ExportTaxes        % of sales        9      19,152   28.482   36.054   37.244  43,197  43,197  43,197  43.197
Tot!              -'000 Db                 157.241  198t396  238.180  247.338 270.012 270.012  270.012  7ZQf012
Gross Marain      '000Db                    55.559  118.075  162.415  166.486 20.5   209.956 209.956 209,956
Investment and Manaaement Costs
Previous Investments (actualized)          928.992
Maintenance Immature Area                   19,440    6.480    8,280
Equipment and Material                     160,000  125,000
Management Fees                             51,830   53,696   55,211   55,449  56,639
Iotm               '000 Db                1.160.262  185.176   63.491    55.449  56,639
Cashflow lexclfudina exort taxesl                     (6312                     95153    253.153 253.153
Economi Rate of Reurmn                       14.6- 5



MAP SECTION



____________________                               53IBRD 2AS
g>7        NIGER       CH.AD
jbEMN        IGN'ER                                                                                      ATLA;A 
.'CAMEROON                                    /         MC,Pebx              P ie  MiCk6
SAO.iTOhNJP
,         ~~GABON              Ribeira Fue,4                       <       /s                 rA
Lombo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tm
0020ear   n-rn                                    D~ 04                        7 % S> o0
Abod
ro Tolda0
5+g   rrv'.i   Jx   c                    |SAOlMAANDPRDNM
SAOTOMt
k~ \ (D~                                                                 ELEVATIM IN METERS.
PorIo Alegro                                      -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
INIUT1004AZAL BOLWDARIES
-  e   ROLAS ISL AO
:. X   /.-- tt
KIlOMETERS
on |he hgal a1to*j  of a ny   ur    mand .n dor lwe st r   ,fa
-                3    4    5                                                     oqpMLS
i _   64,30'                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUtES       6s0



