Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A/ ~3c/7 -4-L
Report No. 7487-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPL3LIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
DECEMBER 22, 1988
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may nct otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1.00            =    DA 6.50
DA 1.00            =    US$0.15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY -.  ABBREVIATIONS
ANPE           -    National Agency for the Protection of the Environment
(Agence Nationale pour la Protection de l'Environnement)
ASMTSDAL       -    National Fertilizer and Pesticides Marketing Enterprise
(Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits
Phytosanitaires)
CASSAP        -    Input Distribution and Services Cooperatives
CILA          -    Interministerial Committee for Locust Control
(Comite Interministeriel de Lutte Anti-Acridienne)
CLCPANO       -    FAO Commission for Locust Control in North West Africa
(Commission de Lutte contre le Criquet Pelerin en Afrique
du Nord-Ouest)
DTA            -    Agricultural Services Division of Air Algeria
(Division des Travaux Aeriens)
ECLO           -    Emergency Centre for Locust Operations
FAO           -    Food and Agricultural Organization
INPV           -    National Institute for Plant Protection
(Institut National de la Protection des V6getaux)
ONAPSA         -    National Agricultural Input Distribution and Services Office
(Office National des Approvisiorinements et des Services
Agricoles)
ONM            -    National Meteorological Services
(Office National de Met6orologie)
PCC            -    Central Command Post
(Poste de Commandement Central)
PCW            -    Wilaya Command Post
(Poste de Commandement de Wilaya)
UNIDO          -    United National Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
Loan and Project SummarY
Borrower:                Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:                  US$58 Million Equivalent
Terms:                   Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate
Project Objectives:      Support Algeria's desert locust control program in the
context of the current locust plague and reinforce
permanent surveillance and warning systems to better
mornitor locust activity
Executing Agence:        The National Institute of Plant Protection in the
Ministry of Agriculture
Proiect Description:     The proposed Project consists of the following
components to be implemented over a two year period:
(a) three locust control campaigns over the period
October 1988 - January 1990 over an estimated area of
6.5 million hectares; (b) strengthening national
desert locust control capabilities by reinforcing the
existing stock oi equipment and vehicles to be used
for grot.nd control; (c) reinforcing comprehensive
surveillance and warning systems by (i) improving the
telecommunications, meteorological and information
dissemination networks, and (ii) providing suitable
vehicles for locust reconnaissance and prospection
purposes; and (d) technical assistance to INPV and POC
in the form of short missions of selected specialists
in pesticide handling and application and in
prospection methods.
Risks:                   The principal risk, which has been addressed in the
design of the Project, is the potential damage to the
environment of wide-spread pesticide use. Algeria has
already demonstrated its ability to implement locust
control campaigns on a scale commensurate with the
proposed Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated x3roject Costs:
Local        Foreign       Total
---- US$ million --------
-   Locust Control Campaign                           34.9           41.7       76.6
-   Strengthening National
Desert Locust Control Capabilities                10.1            5.8      15.9
-   Reinforcement of Comprehensive
Surveillance and Warning Systems                   2.6            5.6       8.2
-   Technical Assistance /a                            0.0            0.0        0.0
-   Base Cost /b                                      47.7           53.1      100.8
-    Physical Contingencies                        2.9            3.2       6.1
-    Price Contingencies                           3.3            1.8       5.1
Total Project Costs /b                                53.9  /c       58.1      112.0
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign       Total
---------- US$ Million --------
- Government                                          36.3           -          36.3
- IBRD                                                 _             58.0       58.0
Net Project Costs                                 36.3           58.0      94.3
Taxes and Duties                                  17.7            -        17.7
Total Project Costs /c                            54.0           58.0     112.0
/a  Total technical assistance cost is estimated at US$15,000
/b  Totals may not add up due to rounding
/c  Includes US$17.7 million equivalent of taxes and duties
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
1989      1990        1991       1992
-------------US$ million-----------
- Annual                                   5.4       26.2        24.2       2.2
- Cumulative                               5.4       31.6        55.8      58.0
Economic Rate of Return: above 500/o
Map: IBRD 21223



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION    .......................................                        1
U.    THE DESERT LOCUST PLAGUE .........................                             1
A.  The Origins of the Current Plague .                    .                 2
B.   Anticipated Locust Movement and Extent of
Invasion in Algeria..                            .                     2
HI.    INTERNATIONAL, REGIONAL AND NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS                           3
A. international Coordination               ..                               3
B.   Regional Organizations and Coordination                                 4
C.   Algerian Institutional Arrangements and
Operational StraLegy             ..                                    5
-  Institutional Framework .                      .                    5
Institutional Arrangements.                                      5
-  Operational Strategy..                                               6
IV. THEE PROJECT ..                                                                  7
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement. . .                                      7
B. Project Objectives. . .                                                   8
C. Project Description. . .                                                  8
- Detailed Features                     . . .8
D. Project Costs                         . . .                              10
E. Financing                     ...10
F. Procurement .                       .                                    11
-    Review cf Procurement Decisions .............                    13
G.   Disbursement            .....................................          13
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .......                ...................            14
A.    Project Management .................. .............                    14
B.   Monitoring & Evaluation ......          ....................           15
C.   Accounts and Audit ....          ...........................           15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Algeria in October 1988, composed of Ms. S. Patel (Mission Leader), Messrs.
C. Gois (Procurement), H. A. Molineus (Senior Country Officer), A. Hafraoui
(Locust Specialist, FAO), M. Mendez (Economist, FAO/CP), and G. J. Jackson
(Consultant-Pesticides).



Table of Contents (cont'd.)
Page No.
VI.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPACT  .......................             15
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries ...........................        15
B.   Economic Assessment              .......................   . .....  16
C.   Environmental Impact ....................  ............       17
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ..                        19
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1     :    Project Components by Campaign
Table 2     :    Project Cost Summary
Table 3          Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table 4          List of Equipment and Vehicles to be Procured
Under the Project
Table 5     :    Selected Documents available in the Project File
CHARTS
Chart 1           Institutional Arrangements - Organigram
ANNEXES
Annex 1     :   The Desert Locust - Schistocerca Gregaria
Ansnex 2    :   The Desert Locust Plague
Annex 3           Pesticide Use
MAP: IBRD 21223
soL 2 E



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report presents the appraisal of a Desert Locust Control project
in Algeria. Together with other countries in the region, Algeria is currently
in the midst of a desert locust plague of unprecedented proportions. The last
plague to affect the region ended in 1963; since then, the desert locust has
been in recession until the major upsurges which began in 1986 in the Sahel
following the return of heavy rainfall to that region. According to the Food
and Agricultural Organization (FAO), which is responsible within the United
Nations system for monitoring the desert locust situation, the current plague
constitutes a potentially catastrophic threat to agricultural production in
North West Africa, and, unless effective control is undertaken in the affected
countries, may well persist for the next ten years and spread as far east as
South West Asia. The project would support Algeria's efforts to contribute to
the control strategy mapped out by the Maghreb countries.
1.02     Algeria's population is estimated at 22 million (1987), of which
about 52% live in rural areas. Approximately 25% of the labor force is
employed in the agricultural sector, which has grown at about 2.6% p.a. in
constant terms over the past fifteen years, and currently contributes some 8%
to GDP. To improve agricultural production, the Government has, since 1980,
increasingly liberalized the agricultural sector. Significant reform of the
socialist sector was initiated in 1987, involving the replacement of
state-owned and run farms with private voluntary cooperatives which are
financially and managerially autonomous.
II. THE DESERT LOCUST PLAGUE
2.01     The desert locust (schistocerca gregaria) has a vast invasion area of
around 29 million square kilometres, affecting 57 countries in the continents
of Africa and Asia. This serious pest to agriculture lives in two phases: the
solitarious phase, where scattered populations throughout the affected
countries occupy what is known as the recession area; and the gregarious
phase, where, under suitable weather conditions, these scattered populations
can breed successfully leading to a vast increase in numbers. The resulting
swarms are highly mobile, and given proper winds, can travel up to 1000 km in
a week. In plague s4tuations, the desert locust has the potential to harm the
livelinood of a tenth of the world's population. A general description of the
desert locust and its habits may be found in Annex 1 to this report.
80 1 2E



A. The Origins of the Current Plague
2.02     Desert locust populations started to expand in Sudan and Mauritania
with the return of near normal rainfall in the Sahel region in 1985. Since
then, the desert locust has been able to breed continuously due to suitable
climatic conditions. The situation has been further exacerbated due to (i)
the inaccessibility for reconnaissance and control purposes of heavy breeding
areas in Northern Chad, Northern Mauritania, the Western Sahara as well as
parts of Ethicpia and Sudan, due primarily to hostilities iai these areas; (ii)
the withdrawal of dieldrin (organochlorates), one of the most effective locust
control chemicals available, due to its persistence and resulting toxicity to
the environment; and (iii) a lack of qualified locust officers who have
experience in dealing with large-scale control operations. In addition, the
national, regional and international structures put in place over the years to
monitor locust activity were not able to either adequately signal the extent
of infested areas or mobilize the necessary resources to undertake control
activities, due essentially to their reduced funding in the recession period.
2.03     The first major locust invasions of the current plague in Algeria
took place in the period October-December 1987, due primarily to uncontrolled
breeding that took place in the spring and summer breeding areas of Sudan,
Ethiopia and Chad following favorable rainfall in these areas. Further
invasions occurred in the period February-July 1988, originating from the
winter breeding areas of Mauritania and the Western Sahara. The invasions
over 1987-88 necessitated the treatment of over 2 million hectares. It is
estimated that some 9.7 million hectares are currently infested in the Sahel.
As of end-September 1988, barely 5% of Lhese areas had been treated. Swarms
resulting from the first summer generation (August-September) have been
sighted in South-Eastern Mauritania, Southern Mali, North-Eastern Niger,
North-Eastern Chad and Western Sudan. Exceptionally suitable climatic
conditions have resulted in further multiplication of these populations.
Details may be found in Annex 2 to this report.
B. Anticipated Locust Movement and Extent of Invas.on in Algeria
2.04     Algeria was invaded by first generation swarms moving in from the
South-East and South-West beginning in October 1988, with second generation
swarms following in November 1988. Invasions are expected to continue well
into February 1989, requiring the treatment of an estimated 2 million hectares
during the period. Swarm invasions resulting from winter and spring breeding
in Central and Northern Mauritania and the Western Sahara in addition to any
breeding of uncontrolled populations within Algeria are expected to commence
in March 1989, requiring treatment of an estimated 3 million hectares during
the period March-July 1989. It is not possible to predict with certainty the
exact path that will be taken by locusts, since this depends on climatic
conditions in general and wind movements in particular. Similarly, it is
difficult to predict the extent of control required beyond the current and
possibly the succeeding campaign, since this depends on the effectiveness of
control operations undertaken not just in Algeria but also in the other
infested countries of the region. Clearly, adequate and timely control in
major breeding areas will greatly reduce the extent of invasions in Algeria.
However, given the severity of the plague and in light of the feeble control
efforts taking place in several infested countries, indications are that a
RPn1 2E



furcher 1.5 million hectares will requi-e treatment in the period October 1989
- January 1990. The current plague is expected to last at least over the next
two years, and possibly over the next eight to ten years. A schematic
presentation of anticipated locust movement into Algeria is contained in the
attached map.
II. INTERNATIONAL, REGIONAL AND NATIONAL ORGANIZATION
A. InternatiorAal Coordination
3.01     An internationally agreed system of centralized collection, mapping
and analysis of data on the changing distribution of the desert locust was
first set up in London in 1929 (the Anti-locust Research Center). By 1943,
sufficient information on the seasonal locust situation was available to
permit the publication of regular locust situatioa reports. From 1958 to
1973, this forecasting service was supported financially by the countries
concerned through the FAO. Responsibility for forecasting was then passed on
to regional organizations (paras. 3.04-3.05), with the FAO providing
coordination at the international level.
3.02     The onset of a major plague, shortly after the founding of FAO,
prompted the organization to increase its involvement in the coordination of
national, regional and international control efforts. In 1955, the FAO set up
the Descrt Locust Control Committee (DLCC) composed of representatives of the
affected countries and of the international donor community. The DLCC
provides a forum to discuss locust problems at the international level. In
1986, an Emergency Center for Locust Operations (ECLO) was set up in the FAO,
designed primarily as an administrative arrangement to provide more
operational support for locust control efforts. ECLO provides information on
locust activity in the affected areas, financing requirements and available
donor support. This is done through the ECLO Bulletin, published every ten
days. Most countries now rely on ECLO to disseminate information.
3.03     Experience in the recent past suggests that on the whole,
international coordination efforts have not been fully satisfactory. Donors
operating within a single country are often not aware of each other's efforts
in that country; in addition, their individual contributions do not
necessarily constitute a coherent response to the larger, regional problem.
Effective international coordination to provide a concerted approach to the
treatment of locusts in all affected countries would reduce the burden of
control on individual countries such as Algeria: speedy response by the donor
community to address the cause of the plague would minimize control
requirements in countries that suffer from the consequences of the problem.
B. Regional Organizations and Coordination
3.04     Historically, regional organizations have played an important role in
the control of locusts and other pests to agriculture. Two such
intergovernmental structures were established in Africa for the control of the
desert locust: the Desert Locust Control Organization for Eastern Africa
(DLCO-EA); and the Joint Anti-Locust and Anti-Avian Organization (OCLALAV) in
West Africa. Their work and plans are reviewed by the DLCC. Both these
anln 2E



- 4 -
organizations have received substantial bilateral and multilateral assistance
in the past. However, experience in the recent past suggests that
intervention by these organizations usually takes place when the country is
already overwhelmed with locusts: the provision of intra- and inter-country
reconnaissance which would permit preventive control is usually beyond the
resources available. In addition, their existence often implies that national
plant protection services do not develop the necessary expertise to provide
required reconnaissance and control activitie!a.I/  OCLALAV is currently
undergoing restructuring, and responsibility for desert locust survey and
prevention control is being transferred to the four countries harboring
breeding areas (Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger).
3.05     Three FAO Regional Locust Control Commissions have also been
established, covering the Near East, North-West Africa and South-West Asia
respectively. These commissions are financed by contributions from the member
states with the Secretariat provided by FAO. Unlike the two regional
organizations, however, the FAO comnissions do not undertake control
operations; funds are utilized primarily for training and information
dissemination. Details are available in Project Working Paper No. 3.
3.06     The FAO Commission for Locust Control in North-West Africa (CLCPANO)
is headquartered in Algiers and was established in 1972 to cover the countries
of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya. In 1988, Mauritania was asked to join
this regional agency.  CLCPANO is composed of the Ministers in charge of
locust control activity in the member countries. An Executive Committee,
composed of designated individuals from each of the countries involved, meets
on a two-year basis under normal circumstances; meetings are more frequent in
plague situations. This committee is responsible for preparing technical
reports to be submitted to commission sessions. A Committee of Experts meets
as required, and is responsible for preparing the agenda for Miniscrial
meetings. CLCPANO has been involved in financing the training of several key
locust specialists in the region. Recent activities of the CLCPANO include
the organization of the first Maghreb level meeting of the current plague in
March 1988 (Tunis), where a common strategy for locust control in the region
was elaborated and Mauritania was invited to join the commission; a follow-up
meeting in April 1988 (Rabat), to adopt an emergency action plan covering the
period May-September 1988; a meeting in June 1988 (Tamanrasset), where a
decision to create a Maghreb fund (para. 3.07) was taken, and a meeting in
September 1988 (Rabat), where regional forecasts were defined and control
requirements discussed. A Ministerial meeting was held in June 1988 in
Nouakchott, and lastly, in October 1988 in Fez, presided by the King of
Morocco.
3.07     Discussion is now underway to define operating procedures for the
Maghreb Fund, to be used for the financinug of joint regional locust control
1/ A review of national plant protection services in Africa undertaken by the
FAO shows that while most countries nominally have some form of
infrastructure, the delivery of essential services is very limited. In
addition, the infrastructure for the appropriate distribution of
pesticides and the regulation of their use is often lacking.



- 5 -
operations. Member countries are expected to provide resources to this fund;
in addition, the fund will channel all international assistance provided to
the region as a whole.1'  Proposals to use fund resources include the
creation of regional reconnaissance/treat ent units which can be deployed as
necessary in member countries; leasing of Airplanes for control operations in
Mauritania; and financing travel and subsistence costs of technicians provided
by member countries for control operations in other countries of the region.
3.08     An inter-regional project covering 8 countries in the Maghreb and the
Sahel is currently under preparation by the FAO. This project comprises
actions to inter alia strengthen national locust control intervention units in
the countries involved, and provide specialized training for staff.  IFAD is
in the process of preparing a regional project covering the same 8 countries.
The first phase of this project, to be financed by a grant, will aim at
strengthening national level institutions and improving regional coordination.
C. Algerian Institutional Arrangements and Operational Strategy
3.09     Responsibility for locust control in Algeria lies with the National
Institute for Plant Protection (INPV) in the Ministry of Agriculture. Minor
upsurges of locusts are _.ontrolled by the Locust Control Unit within INPV.
However, recognizing that INPV's resources would be inadequate in the face of
impetnding large-scale locust invasions of the current plague, an emergency
national control strategy was devised in 1987. Resources were mobilized from
various sources at both national and provincial levels to uadertake the
necessary control. Based on the experience gained over the last two campaigns
(October 1987-July 1988), both this strategy and the institutional
arrangements required have been refined. They are discussed below.
Institutional Framework
3.10     Desert locust plagues are classified as one of fourteen natural
catastrophes governed by the provisions of two decrees dated August 1985.
Specific arrangements related to the Desert Locust plague have been recently
finalized based on the experience of the past two control campaigns
implemented since the first invasion in 1987. These are contained in an
Interministerial Instruction, dated July 1988. Chart 1 presenits a schematic
description of this framework, which is currently operational. It should be
noted that these arrangements apply to the current plague situation; the
monitoring and control function in recession periods is linked to plant
protection services provided by INPV on a permanent basis. Government
strategy is to mobilize the necessary resources (both human and material) from
existing sources to the extent possible so as to not create a permanent
structure that would be of limited use at the end of the plague. Details are
available in Project Working Paper No. 4.
Institutional Arrangements
3.11     Central Level. An interministerial committee (CILA) 2  headed uy
1/ The Islamic Development Bank has pledged initial support of US$1 million
to this Fund.
2/ The Interministerial Committee for Locust Control was created in 1968 to
oversee locust control operations.
Qn 1 7F:



- 6 -
the Minister of Agriculture and composed of representatives of the various
Ministries and services concerned (including, inter alia, Interior, Finance
and Transport), is thie principal policy making body for locust control
operations. Its mandate is to define locust prevention and control strategy,
to monitor implementation of the operational plans adopted, and to coordinate
locust control activities at the ministerial level.
3.12     The Central Command Post (PCC), which is the principal executing body
of CILA, was created in March 1988 to manage locust control campaigns during
the current plague situation. Its Director reports directly to the Min5ster
of Agriculture and to CILA. The PCC formulates national locust control
strategy, and determines operations required at the wilaya (provincial)
level. It plays a key coordinating role: within the country, by disseminating
cor.t)m  strategy and operational plans to the provinces and monitoring their
iiiiplernentL'tion; within the region, by providing pertinent information to the
regional commission and to neighbouring countries; and internationally, by
liaisinig with ECLO. Three operational units within the PCC provide (i)
logistical support, through management of the central resource base
(airplanes, pesticides, special vehicles and equipment); (ii) technical
support, through the provision of technical assistance to the provinces as and
wheni necessary; and (iii) information flow, whereby relevant information
(meteorology, reconnaissance from mobile field units) is collected on a daily
basis and disseminated appropriately.
3.13     Provincial Level.  At the wilaya level, there is a Wilaya Command
Post (PCi), whose president is the Wali (governor). Depending on the severity
of the locust problem in the wilaya, a technical unit is created within the
PCW, headed by the local chief of the Division for the Development of
Hydraulics and Agriculture and composed of a core team of technicians,
supplemented as necessary. At present, 31 of the 48 PCWs dispose of such
utnits. The PCW, through its technical unit, implements wilaya level
operational plans, and is mandated to mobilize all the necessary resources
(technicians, drivers, laborers, vehicles) from the wilaya for the control
operation. The PCW receives reinforcements from the PCC as required, both in
terms of equipment and technical assistance.
Operational Strategjy
3.14     The strategy adopted to control the present plague has been worked
out with neighboring countries as part of the Regional locust cor.trol effort.
It consists of: (i) destroying invading swarms in the predesert areas before
they can cross the Saharan Atlas range in Algeria and spread to the main
agricultural regions of the country or northeast and southwest to Tunisia and
Morocco; and (ii) protecting the oases and irrigated perimeters that lie in
their flight path. A related objective is to prevent invading swarms from
dispersing and reproducing within the country. Based on the experience gained
over the last two campaigns (October 1987 - July 1988), the country has been
divided into three strategic intervention zones. These are depicted on the
attached map and dicussed below. Together, the three zones account for 842 of
Algeria's agricultural lands and 50% of Algeria's population.
3.15     Zone I:  This zone, the first entry point of swarms originating from
Sahelian regions, is one through which invading swarms fly and where
ecological conditions are favorable for their reproduction. The areas
involved lie south of the Tindouf - In Salah - Ain Amenas axis, and are the
* fl 1 7 I



most difficult to access. 14 control units are currently operating in this
zone. Around 130,000 people"' live in this zone which encompasses some
8.6 million hectares of pasture lands.
3.16     Zone I:  This zone consists of the areas south of the Saharan Atlas
and north of Zone I, where escapees from the south as well as invading swarms
from winter and spring breeding areas converge. Since the mountain range
presents a natural barrier to their flight, these swarms change their flight
patterns to an east-west movement, eventually finding one of three corridors
across the mountai.is to the High Plateaus and High Plains (main productive
areas of the country), or flying into Tunisia in the east and Morocco in the
west. The bulk of the control effort is concentrated in this zone (29 ground
units and 43 airplanes). The population in this zone is around 2.4 million.
Agricultural lands occupy some 14.8 million hectares, of which 74,000 hectares
are under orchards and 14.3 million in pasture.
3.17     Zone m:  Situated north of the Saharan Atlas and comprising the
High Plateaus and High Plains, this zone constitutes one of the main
productive areas in the country. Given the concentration of agricultural
lands and human population in this zone, the strategy is essentially one of
collective ground control (full participation of farmers in crop protection).
Based on the success of control operations in Zones I and II, and therefore,
requirements in Zone III, available resources for locust control will be moved
as necessary. The population in this zone is around 8.8 million. The total
area occupied by agriculture is of the order of 9.8 million hectares;
2.6 million hectares are under annual crops.
3.18     A fourth zone, consisting of the coastal and Tellian areas, is the
last potential invasion zone in Algeria; if the locusts manage to escape
destruction in Zone III they would devastate the country, and may well be
carried by wind movements to the various shores of the Mediterranian.
Effective and timely control in Zones I, II and III would preclude this
possibility.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01     Effective locust control strategy consists of a strong national
effortO' coupled with regional coordination, given that the locust problem
in a country is not confined by geographical borders. The importance of the
locust plague and the crippling impact of inadequate or untimely action not
just in Algeria but also in the region require quick mobilization of resources
to combat the problem. Immediate action is required to minimize, if not
avert, economic disruption to some 39.7 million hectares of Algeria's
productive lands and to protect the 14'_lihood of some 11.9 million people
potentially at risk in the invaded areas.
l/ 1987 Census.
2/ According to the ECLO, respcnsibility for control operations rests with
the netionial governments of the countries involved, normally through their
Plant Protection Services.
801 2E



- 8 -
4.02     Algeria currently lacks the foreign exchange required to mount an
effective campaign.  The international donor assistance mobilized to date1'
is inadequate to finance total requirements. In light of the urgency of the
situation, the Bank's strategy has been to respond quickly to the Government's
request for assistance in the financing of its national locust control
program~& and coordinate actions with regional initiatives taking place
under the aegis of regional and international agencies.
B. Project Objectives
4.03     A two-pronged approaci. to mounting a successful locust control
operation is being pursued under the proposed prc-jact. First, the project
would provide urgent assistance in support of Algeria's national locust
control program. Simultaneously, the reinforcement of permanent surveillance
and warning systems would be sought, enabling Algeria to better predict locust
activity and movement thereby facilitating planning and implementation of
future control programs, both in situations of plague and recession. The
project would further complement the new regional efforts currently taking
place to provide a concerted approach to the treatment of locusts in the
region (paras. 3.06-3.08).  The project would finance those items ' which
are not currently available in Algeria or provided by other donors.
C. Project Description
4.04     The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) locust control campaigns over the period October 1988 - January 1990
(three campaigns);
(b)  strengthening of national desert locust control capabilities;
(c) reinforcement of comprehensive permanent surveillance and warning
systems; and
(d) technical assistance to project implementation authorities.
Detailed Features
4.05     Locust Control CampaiRns.  To control anticipated locust invasions,
the project would finance three locust control campaigns over an estimated
6.5 million hectares over the period October 1988 - January 1990. Control
activities involve the spraying of approximately 4 million litres of
pesticides on infested areas. Approximately 4.5 million hectares would be
covered through aerial spraying. The remaining area of roughly 2 million
hectares would be covered through ground control, involving the spraying of
1/  As of end-September 1988, total international donor assistance mobilized
since the beginning of locust invasions (i.e., October 1987) in Algeria
was around US$7 million equivalent.
2/  Through its agriculture sector adjustment loan, the Bank is already
providing limited financial assistance to Tunisia for the imports of
necessary inputs for locust control, and similar arrangements are being
explored for Morocco. Such facilities are not available in Algeria.
3/  Such as vehicles, equipment, pesticides, technical assistance.
on 1 7E



- 9 -
pesticides through specially equipped vehicles or through portable knap-sack
sprayers. The items to be financed in this component include pesticides,
aircraft leasing, and transport of products and personnel to the treatment
areas. The estimated path of invasion and areas to be treated are presented
in Annex 2 to this report and in the Project File (Working Paper No. 1).
4.06     Strengthening National Desert Locust Control Capabilities.  The project
would reinforce the existing stock of suitable vehicles and field treatment
equipment to be used for ground control of locusts. Items to be purchased
include 56 heavy-duty 4-wheel drive vehicles, specially equipped for treatment
of locusts; 5000 knapsack sprayers and related protective apparel; 300 manual
pumps; and 60 units of camping equipment. The vehicles and equipment
purchased under the project would be provided to INPV. These would be
initially devoted to locust control activities in close collaboration with the
Central Command Post (PCC - para. 3.11) and would subsequently be used by INPV
for its normal plant protection activities. In order to analyse in a timely
fashion the large amount of pertinent locust-related information that is
collected on a daily basis during the campaign, 2 micro-computers with related
peripherals as well as other necessary office equipment (photocopiers, blue
printing machines) will be provided to the PCC for its use during the plague.
These will revert back to the INPV at the end of the plague, and will be used
for its normal activities.
4.07     Reinforcement of Comprehensive Surveilance and Waming Systems. The
focus would be on improvements in telecommunications, meteorological and
information dissemination networks. The project would complement the existing
telecommunications network by providing a radio network to link the center,
the 48 provinces and the mobile surveillance teams which operate in the
field."' The project would also provide 29 prospection vehicles, which
would be used in the plague period to assist in control activities, and in
recession periods to monitor potential risk areas. Both the radio network and
the mobile units would be managed by INPV. The meteorological investments
consist of the reinforcement of the existing network and are indispensable in
predicting locust movement related to climate and air pressure systems. The
project would provide meteorological equipment for 9 fixed stations; the
infrastructure required has already been constructed by the provinces
concerned. In addition, 5 mobile stations would be provided, which would b-
used initially to provide meteorological support for locust control activities
in areas not served by fixed stations, particularly those in remote areas of
the South. Subsequently, these stations are expected to be used for any
emergency operation requiring the support of meteorolgical services (forest
fires, floods, seismic tremors). The management and maintenance of this
equipment would be the responsibility of the National Meteorological Services
(ONM). The project would a'lso finance extension equipment such as recording,
projection and printing apparatus to assist INPV/PCC in information
dissemination.
4.08     Technical Assistance.  This component would focus on improving the
skills of local staff and refining control techniques currently used.
Emphasis would be given to short-term consultancies by suitably qualified
specialists who would train local engineers in appropriate techniques, notably
in safe and effective pesticide handling and application (4 person-weeks) and
in prospection methods (2 person-weeks).
1/ At present, such a network has been established; however, the equipment
has been requisitioned from the Ministry of Interior on a temporary basis.
Onl 2E



- 10 -
D. Project Costs
4.09     Over the two-year implementation period (1988-1990) the total cost of
the project is estimated to be US$112.0 million equivalent (DA 728 million),
with a foreign exchange component of US$58.0 million equivalent (52%). The
cost estimates include taxes and duties totalling approximately US$17.7 million
equivalent or 16% of total costs. Project costs are summarized in the
following table and shown by campaign in Table 1 and by summary account in
Table 2.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    % Foreign  % Total
Costs   Costs   Costs   *osts   Costs   Costs    Exchange   Base
OH Million --         ------US$ Million                   Costs
Desert Locust Control Campaigns  227.1  271.1   498.1    34.9    41.7    76.6   54       76
Strengthening National Locust    65.8   47.7   103.5    10.1  5.8    15.9       36       16
Control Capabilities
Reinforcement of Surveillance  17.0   36.4    53.4     2.6    5.6    8.2        68        8
and Warning Systems
Technical Assistance           0.0    0.1    0.1               0.0              65        0
Total Base Costs      309.9  345.2   655.1    47.7    53.1   100.8      53      100
Physical Contingencies         18.9   20.8    39.7     2.9    3.2    6.1        52        6
Price Contingencies           21.5   11.      33.2     3.3    1.8     5.1       35        5
GRAND TOTAL /1        350.3  377.7   728.0    53.9    58.1    12.0      52      111
/1 Discrepancies due to rounding
/b Including US$17.7 million in taxes and duties
4.10     Btase costs, expressed in October 1988 prices, were derived from
recent contracts and market surveys. Physical contingencies have been
calculated by major cost item of the control campaigns and average 6%
overall. No physical contingency allowance was provided for other costs since
numbers for equipment and other materials are definitely established. Price
contingencies have been calculated on the basis of annual percentage rat'is of
15% and 5% for local and foreign costs respectively, and applied to toLal
costs including physical contingencies.''
E. Financing
4.11     A Bank loan of US$ 58.0 million to the Government of Algeria is
proposed to finance 100% of the foreign exchange component of the Project,
including the foreign exchange component of incremental operating costs. "he
balance of funds required would be provided by the Government. The Bank 'o'.n
would cover 52% of total project costs (62% of project costs net of ta,es), as
shown in the table below:
1/ Price contingencies were applied over 6 and 9 months for costs arising
during the second and third campaign respectively. Half of the domestic
inflation was assumed to be offset by exchange rate modifications during
project life.



- 11 -
% Net
Local    Foreign    Total    Project Costs
-----------US $ Million Equivalent------
IBRD                                -          58.0       58.0          62
Government                           36.3       -         36.3          38
Net Project Costs              36.3       58.0       94.3         100
Taxes and Duties               17.7        -         17.7          19
Total Project Costs            54.0       58.0      112.0         119
4.12     The proposed Bank loan would be for 15 years including 5 years of
grace.  Payments made after August 1, 1988 against advanced contracts for
aircraft and ground support services up to an aggregate amount of US$5.8
million would be retroactively financed. The project would be completed by
December 31, 1990 and closed on December 31, 1991.
F. Procurement
4.13      Procurement under the project would be in accordan:-e with Bank
guidelines and is summarized in the table and discussed in the paragraphs
below. Further details may be found in Project Files.
----…Method----------
Project Component              ICB          IS        LS        DC     N/A      TOTAL
--------US$ Milion Equivalent       …
Pesticides                     45.8         -         -        14.0     -       59.8
(25.0)                          (7.6)           (32.6)
Aircraft Services /a            -          10.2       -        11.2      -      21.4
( 7.2)             ( 7.8)            (15.0)
Vehicles                         7.9        -         _-                 -       7.9
(4.0)                                          (4.0)
Equipment
-   Telecommunications          0.8         -         -         -       -        0.8
(0.5)                                          ( 0.5)
-   Meteorological              6.6         -         -         -       -        6.6
(3.9)                                          ( 3.9)
-   Miscellaneous               0.3         3.0       0.2       -       -        3.5
(0.2)      (1.8)    (0.1)                      ( 2.1)
Technical Assistance            -           -         -         -       /a      /a
Operating Costs                 -           -         -                 12.^    12.0
TOTAL                      61.4        13.2       0.2     25.2    12.0   112.0
(33.6)     ( 9.0)    (0.1)   (15.4) (/a)    (58.0)
Figures in parentheses represent Loan financing.
/a Total of US$15,000.
8 0 1 2 C



- 12 -
4.14     Except as provided in paragraphs 4.15-4.18 below, goods would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). These would include
the procurement of pesticides, vehicles, and telecommunication, meteorological
and other miscellaneous equipment. To the extent feasible, contracts for the
supply of goods would be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$1 million equivalent or more. Firms which submit for
pesticide supply under the project would be required to certify that the
pesticides are to be formulated in accordance with guidelines acceptable to
the Bank.''  The supplier would be required to allow Government and the Bank
to inspect any of its facilities to verify the certification provided.
4.15     Pesticides.  Pesticide requirements for the first campaign to be
financed under the project (October 1988 - February 1989) could not be
determined until July 1988 (end of the last campaign), when existing stocks
were evaluated and projections made for the following campaign. This led to a
severe time constraint incompatible with ICB. ASMIDAL (the National
Fertilizer and Pesticides Marketing Enterprise) has purchased raw materials
and solvents for the formulation of final products for applicatiol, in the
current campaign.  Contracts with INPV have been established (DC) fo: the
provision of these pesticides. These contracts would be acceptable for
pesticide requirements of the first campaign up to an aggregate amount of
US$10 million equivalent, given that around US$9.2 million correspond to
produc.s (active ingredients and solvents) procured through LIB following
proceddres acceptable to the Bank. About US$45.8 million equivalent of
pesticides for future campaigns would be procLred through ICB. Eligible local
suppliers would receive preference in bid evaluation of up to 15X.
4.16     Pesticides and related goods which are of a proprietary nature and
that are only available from one supplier may be purchased through Direct
Contracting (DC), provided that the justification of the choice of such
products is satisfactory to the Bank. Such contracts are estimated to cost
US$4.0 million equivalent.
4.17     Aircraft Services. For the first campaign (O0tober 1988-Frebruary
1989), these services would be contracted directly with DTA. These contracts
up to US$8.25 million would be eligible for Bank financing. For future
campaigns aircraft services would be provided in accordance with the
following: (a) provision of aircraft services to be procured by INPV through
International Shopping (IS) from a list of at least three suppliers based on
previous experience obtained during past campaigns and after reviewing their
prices and performance (estimated at US$14.6 million equivalent); and (b)
ground support to be provided by DTA for these foreign aircraft and pilots
(fuel, lubricants, miscellaneous services) estimated at US$6.8 million
equivalent. Direct contracting would be acceptable in this case for reasons
of economy and efficiency: DTA has the infrastructure required and foreign
suppliers would be at a comparative disadvantage to provide this support in
remote areas of the country.
4.18     Equipment.  IS would be used for the purchase of miscellaneous
ectuipment (p?oteci-'ie masks, v-inor spraying equipment, office equipment) not
available in ilbe )ocal market and expected to cost the equivalent of
1/  These g&ideliiacs, contained in 'Formulation of Pesticides in Developing
Countries' p'blished by UNIDO, would apply to all suppliers, regardless of
country ox ocigin.
AoliL



- 13 -
US$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.0 million.
Camping and other minor equipment available in the local market and expected
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.2 million would be purchased through Local Shopping (LS).
4.19     Consultants.  Short-term consultants and training specialists
totalling 6 person-weeks, and whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank, would be selected
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Bankt guidelines for the use of
consultants.
Review of Procurement Decisions
4.20     In reviewing the invitations to bid, proposed awards and the final
contract, the following procedures would be applied: with respect to all
contracts for goods and services procured through ICB, the procedures for
prior review1L' set forth in Bank Guidelines for procurement dated May 1985
would apply. Prior review would also apply to aircraft services procured
through IS. All other contracts would not be subject to prior review. The
above procedures would represent prior review by the Bank of about 90% of
total contract value, including approximately US$19.0 million equivalent of
goods and services which have been advance contracted and which have been
subject to post review to determine their eligibility for financing.
G. Disbursement
4.21     The estimated schedule of disbursements of the Pank loan per year is
shown in TabLe 3. No regional disbursement profile is available for this type
of loan; however, the urgent nature of the expenditures involved suggests that
the projected disbursement period is appropriate. Disbursements would be made
after receipt of full documentation, except in the case of goods and services
provided under contracts valued below US$150,000 equivalent for which
disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
The SCE would be certified by the project implementing agency incurring the
expenditure. Supporting documentation would be retained by the implementing
agency and made available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and by
external auditors. Payments made after August 1, 1988 against advanced
contracts for aircraft services up to an aggregate amount of US$5.8 million
would be retroactively financed. Disbursement categories, amounts allocated
and the share of expenditures to be financed would be as follows:
1/ Paragraph 2 and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines.
In 2E



- 14 -
Amount of Loan       % of Expenditure
Allocated            To Be Financed
(US$ '000)
1.  Pesticides                         30,000           100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 50% of
other local expenditures
2.  Aircraft Services                  13,500           100% of foreign
expenditures and 70% of
local expenditures
3.  Vehicles and Spare Parts            4,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
4.  Other Equipment                     5,480           100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 60% of
other items procured
locally
5.  Technical Assistance                   20           100% of total expenditures
6.  Unallocated                         5,000
TOTAL                           58,000
4.22     In order to reduce the Government's pre-financing requirements, a
special account in foreign currency would be opened at the Central Bank of
Algeria with an initial deposit of US$6 million equivalent. Replenishments
would be made for a minimum amount of US$1.5 million.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
5.01     Project execution would be managed by INPV in close collaboration
with the PCC. INPV is the Ministry of Agriculture's Plant Protection
Institute; under normal circumstances (locust recession), it has the mandate
and the related budget to monitor locust activity in the country and undertake
necessary control. The PCC is headquartered in INPV. The Director of INPV
serves as the Deputy Director of the PCC for the duration of the plague. A
special budget is provided to INPV within the Ministry of Agriculture for
80 1 2E



- 15 -
locust control operations (both during the plague and under normal
circumstances). The existing institutional arrangements as discussed in
paragraphs 3.11-3.13 have been judged fully satisfactory to implement the
national locust control program.
5.02     INPV would be assisted by appropriate agencies in the implementation
of the project: (i) the PCC, which would determine campaign requirements;
(ii) the DTA, which would undertake leasing of agricultural aircraft on INPV's
behalf for aerial spraying; (iii) the ANPE (National Agency for the Protection
of the Environment), which would provide a list of ecologically sensitive
areas where pesticide spraying should be limited to the fullest extent
possible; (iv) the ONM, which would procure, manage and maintain the
meteorological network provided through the project; and ONAPSA (the National
Agricultural Input Distribution and Services Office), which would assist in
both vehicle procurement and the provision of storage for pesticides through
the wilaya level input distribution cooperatives (CASSAP).
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.03     INPV would be responsible for monitoring the progress of project
implementation. At the end of each campaign, INPV/PCC would elaborate a
status report describing physical and financial implementation under the
project. Given the difficulty in predicting the extent of locust invasions
beyond the horizon of one campaign, and thus, of control requirements, a key
element of this report would be updated forecasts of control requirements for
the following campaign. This report would also address the status of
environmental actions related to pesticide use under the project (para. 6.17)
C. Accounts and Audits
5.04     Government financial procedures would be followed for management and
accounting, as is the practice under other Bank projects. INPV would maintain
separate accounts and records for the project. Auditors acceptable to the
Bank would audit the project accounts each year.
VI. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPACT
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01     The potential benefits of the Government's desert locust control
program are that 39.7 million hectares of productive agricultural lands which
would otherwise be at risk of damage resulting from locust invasions would now
be protected. Similarly, the livelihood of 11.9 million people who depend
directly or indirectly on these lands would be safeguarded. One way to
evaluate the benefits of the proposed project would be to consider it an
insurance policy: if the locusts invade, and all indications are that they
will, then the country would have at its disposal effective means to control
them. Inaction by Algeria in locust control is no. a feasible option: on the
domestic front, the social and economic disruption so caused would be
untenable; and at a regional level, a lack of effective control by Algeria
would perpetuate the locust threat in neighboring countries. The economic
assessment of Algeria's desert locust control program presented in paragraphs
6.03-6.08 below is purely indicative, and is provided to illustrate the
o *liv 



- 16 -
magnitude of the locust problem facing the country, as well as the economic
viability of Algeria's response.
6.02     The eeonomic value of production of Algeria's productive lands is
estimated at DP. 22 billion (US$3.4 billion equivalent) on average per year.
An uncontrolled locust invasion in a given period would, in the first
instance, jeopardize this production by: (i) losses in annual crops (which
account for 54X on average of the total value of production per year); (ii)
damage to pasture lands and thus to the production of meat and milk; and (iii)
damage to perennial crops, notably fruit trees (which account for 17% on
average of the total value of production). In the case of annual crops and
pastures, the loss sustained could be recuperated in the following year. This
would not be possible in the case of fruit trees (vine, citrus, date palms),
where locust damage would necessitate a three to four year rehabilitation
period before production could resume satisfactorily. However, locust
invasions in a given period would have repercussions beyond that period:
potential multiplication of locusts within the country would compound the
locust threat to Algeria in subsequent periods. In addition, given prevailing
wind and air pressure systems in the region, and thus the likely path of
locust movement, a lack of effective action by Algeria could result in
potential invasions of neighboring countries.
B. Economic Assessment
6.03     The particular nature of the proposed project involves protection
activities aimed at the prevention of potential future losses in agricultural
production resulting from uncontrolled locust invasions. Given that it is not
possible to predict with certainty the extent of damage that could be
inflicted by locusts, and in light of the fact that reliable estimates of
potential losses averted as a result of control activities undertaken in past
campaigns are not available, project benefits are evaluated under several
scenarios. These yield economic rates of return (ERR) ranging from 25% to
1302, and are discussed below in paragraphs 6.05-6.08.
6.04     In general, benefits are equivalent to the economic value of
production-' considered to be at risk. Locust invasions in a given period
would affect not only the current harvest but also yields of permanent crops
(orchards, vineyards) in subsequent periods. Project benefits are assumed to
correspond to potential losses of crop and related livestock production during
the agricultural years concerned (1988-89 and 1989-90) and to secondary
effects on yields (20% decrease) of permanent crops over the subsequent three
years. A five year period has been retained for the analysis given that this
is (i) the economic life of the bulk of vehicles and equipment to be provided
and (ii) the estimated recovery period of permanent crops following locust
damage. In addition to project financed items valued in economic prices,
economic costs include (i) some 99,000 man-days of peasant labor engaged for
field treatment ("lutte collective"); and (ii) recurrent costs for operation
and maintenance beyond the project's 2-year life. Tradable items have been
valued at their border prices. Non-tradable items are valued at their
efficiency prices using the standard conversion factor of 0.55.
1/ Annual production valued at border prices using conversion factors
estimated by the Bank and FAO!CP. Details are available in Project
Working Paper No. 6.
80 1 2E



- 17 -
6.05     The present analysis attempts to determine the economic viability of
the proposed operation under the following scenarios:
(a) potential locust damage would occur nationwide;
(b) losses to agriculture would be confined to Zones I and II (paras.
3.15-3.16), which lie directly in the locust flight path; and
(c) a particularly vulnerable area in the Sahara region (Oued R'Hir
valley) would be damaged.
Total project costs are attributed to each of the above scenarios. Economic
benefits vary by scenario as described below.
6.06     National Level.  The following table illustrates the results of the
analysis undertaken at the national level. Its shows the sensitivity of the
ERR under different assumptions of national agricultural production
safeguarded as a result of project activities.
% of National Production
Safeguarded                 ERR
1.25%                     9%
1.50%                    50%
2.00%                   130%
Thus, even if the project were to prevent locust damage equivalent to 1.5% of
the total economic value of production, the ERR is 50%. This is a minimum
scenario in that it does not include potential damage to neighboring countries
resulting from Algeria's lack of effective control. Since some ECLO estimates
indicate that a lack of effective control by Algeria could endanger upwards of
507 of its crop production, the proposed investments appear fully justified
from an economic viewpoint.
6.07     Zones land U.  These zones, which encompass 12 wilayas, are most at
risk of locust damage given that they lie directly in the anticipated locust
flight path. National production of dates is concentrated in these two
zones. If the project were to save half of this crop, the economic benefits
so generated would yield a 100% ERR on overall project costs.
6.08     Oued R'Hir Valey.  This valley in the Sahara region encompasses a
group of oases where high value dates and horticultural products are grown.
It is particularly vulnerable to swarms flying in from Mali and Niger. Locust
specialists estimate that one big swarmnl' could devastate the entire valley
in a matter of days. Under this scenario, averting potential losses yields an
EER of 25%.
C. Environmental Impact
6.09     Given the widespread use of pesticides required for locust control,
safeguard measures to minimize any potential negative impact on humans and the
1/ A big swarm is defined as one larger than 100 square kilometers. A medium
density swarm can contain about 50 million individuals per square
kilometer.
an 1 2E



- 18 -
environment are necessary.  These include: 1   (i) using only those
pesticides that are acceptable from an environmental standpoint; (ii) assuring
the adequate protection of pesticide operators; (iii) appropriate disposal of
pesticide containers; and (iv) appropriate disposal of effluents and pesticide
washings. These aspects are discussed below. Details may be found in Annex 3
to this report and in Project Files (Working Paper No. 2).
6.10     Acceptabfity of Pesticides.  Two criteria for acceptability were
retained, namely that (i) the product in question be approved for locust
control by the FAO; and (ii) the product, if to be used on or in the vicinity
of food crops, be acceptable to the Bank and be so registered for this purpose
in Algeria.  The products that are currently envisaged for use in Algeria '
are all on the FAO list of approved pesticides for desert locust control.
These products are also widely registered within the OECD for uses of a
specialised nature comparable to locust control operations in terms of
operator hazard and impact on the environment. All these products, except for
one,3' have been iudged to be suitable for use on or in the vicinity of food
crops. It should be noted that Algeria has banned the use of dieldrin, one of
the more controversial locust control chemicals, since 1969. Agreements were
obtained at negotiations that only those pesticides that have been approved
for use in locust control operations by the FAO will be used in Algeria;
further, that only those products that are judged acceptable by the Bank will
be used on or in the vicinity of food crops.
6.11     All the pesticides to be used have been judged acceptable from a
human toxicology standpoint. None of the products is particularly persistent
in the environment, and most of them are short-lived, degrading to harmless
substances within a few days. Since the quantity applied per hectare is
small, there is negligible risk of pollution of the environment or underground
aquifers even in tbh case of re-treatment or overdosing. It is therefore
unlikely that the use of the pesticides in question will result in excessive,
long-term environmental damage.
6.12     Hazard to Pesticide Operators.  Protective clothing and equipment is
provided to INPV operators, together with information on hazards, poisoning
and antidotes. The pesticides to be used are for the most part
organophosphates, which are readily antidotable. Pyrethroid insecticides
(deltamethrin) have no antidote but are of such low toxicity to humans as to
present negligible risk unless willfully abused. Antidotes have been provided
to provincial authorities and public health services operating in the control
area.
6.13     Disposal of Pesticide Drums.  Used drums are returned to Regional
Depots (CASSAP), where they are washed and put to different uses: as
containers for water used to clean aircraft tanks, as containers for aircraft
and truck fuel or returned to ASMIDAL to be refilled with pe,;ticides. All of
these uses have been judged acceptable by a suitably qualified expert. The
Government has informed the Bank that  hese drums are kept under locked and
guarded conditions. At the end of their useful life, the drums are sent to a
metal reclamation factory, where they are crushed and melted down for metal,
which is also judged acceptable.
1/ The current legislative provisions applying to environmental protection
are contained in Law No. 83-03, dated February 5, 1983.
2/ See Annex 3.
3/ Dichlorvos
on i 7F



- 19 -
6.14     Pesticide Washings.  Effluents resulting from the rinsing of
pesticide drums and aircraft tanks must be properly disposed off to prevent
pollution of the environment and possible leakages to groundwater. The
Government is in the process of formulating appropriate disposal mechanisms to
minimize the potential negative impact of pesticide effluents on the
environment. Agreements were obtained at negotiations that the Government
will, March 31, 1989, enforce appropriate disposal mechanisms at all regional
depots (CASSAP), airstrips, and any other place where pesticide washings are
expected to occur.
6.15     In light of the concerns expressed at appraisal regarding the safety
of the pesticide formulation installations of ASMIDAL, the Government has
initiated action to ensure that ASMIDAL's facilities conform to the standards
set forth in the UNIDO guidelines regarding the agrochemical industry.
Specifically, safety-related upgrading of ASMIDAL is currently being
implemented. In order to be eligible to bid for pesticide contracts foreseen
in the proposed project (para. 4.15), ASMIDAL's facilities would need to
conform to the standards set forth in the UNIDO guidelines. An inspection of
the premises would take place by a suitably qualified expert prior to any
contract award to ASMIDAL involving the formu'lation of pesticides.
6.16     Ecologicaty Sensitive Areas.  The National Agency for the Protection
of the Environment (ANPE) is currently responsible for monitoring, inter alia,
the impact of pesticide use on the environment. ANPE would prepare for INPV a
list of ecologically sensitive areas. This list would identify, as
appropriate, areas within national parks, protected areas, wetlands or other
areas which should not be sprayed in order to protect natural habitat and/or
wildlife. The list would be accompanied by a series of maps which clearly
identify the ecologically sensitive areas. A representative of the ANPE
currently participates in locust control activities at the CILA level. In
addition, a formal consultation procedure would be established by March 31,
1989 between this organization and INPV to assure that spraying impacts to
these ecologically sensitive areas are limited to the fullest extent
possible. Agreement to this effect was obtained at negotiations. Given the
anticipated widespread use of pesticides during the locust campaigns, ANPE
intends to regularly analyze residue levels on food crops. An
eco-toxicological laboratory is currently under construction for ANPE use and
is expected to be operational by early 1989. In addition, high-level concern
regarding ground-water pollution is prompting the Algerian authorities to set
up appropriate monitoring systems and implement effective toxic waste disposal.
6.17     In conjunction with INPV, ANPE would provide a status report at the
end of each control campaign (para. 5.03) on environmental aspects related to
pesticide use under the proposed project. This report would contain, inter
alia, an evaluation of environmental safeguard measures being implemented, and
would facilitate supervision and monitoring of project activities in this
area. A Bank environmental specialist/consultant would participate in
supervision missions to monitor compliance with environmental safeguards
included in the project as discussed above.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     The following agreements were reached at negotiations:



- 20 -
(a) Firms which submit for pesticide supply under the project would be
required to certify that the said pesticides are to be formulated in
accordance with the guidelines cuntained in UNIDO's Formulatien of
Pesticides in Developing Countries, which would appLy to all
suppliers regardless of country of origin. The winning firm would be
required to allow the Government and the Bank to inspect any of its
facilities to verify the certification provided (para. 4.14);
(b) Procurement would be as for paras. 4.13 - 4.19. All bidding
documents for goods and ,ervices procured through ICB would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. Prior review would also apply
to aircraft services procured through IS. The balance would be
subject to Bank's post review after contract avard (para, 4.20);
(c) Separate cost accounts will be kept by INPV for the project; the
Government will hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to
audit project accounts; the audit report will be sent to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.04);
(d) Only those pesticides that have been approved for use in locust
control operations by the FAO will be used in Algeria (para. 6.10);
(e) The Government will enforce, by March 31, 1989, appropriate effluent
disposal mechanisms at all regional depots (CASSAP), airstrips and
any other place where pesticide washings are expected to occur (para.
6.14); and
(f) The borrower will develop and implement by March 31, 1989 a program
designed to limit pesticide spraying of ecologically sensitive areas
to the fullest extent possible (para. 6.16).
7.02     Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$58 million to the Government of Algeria for a term of 15 years
including 5 years of grace. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1990.
on i 7E



- 21                                                                   TABLE I
STRAF RPPRR ISPL                                                          __R_s_I
DE110CRRTIC RND POPU0RR EPUBLIC Of RLGERIR
DESERT LOCUSI CONTROL PROJECt
PROJECT COlPONENTS COSI STIIIRRY
Base Costs -----------                 Foreign Exchange
Total      lotal   ----------
lst       2nd       3rd       -----      ---   Woaunt        I
caipaign  cmpalgn  caipagp
1, Dert Locust Control Campaigns                                          -       ------- (OR l000 ) -----------     --- 'USt000)
R.Pusticides                                                           88586.70 182152.90  72352.50  343092.10   52783.40 28341.02   S5
B.Rental of Aerial Spraying                                            28824.80  6VS68.60  28824.80  122218.20   18802.80 12757.40     68
C.Transport                                                              630.00   1095.00    575.00    2300.00     353.85   176.92     SO
O.Operation I Mainttnace                                                   0.00   60MM.73   2601,95    6Wb0.68    1332.41   400.30    30
E.Personnel                                                             4372.80  10203.20   7288.00   21864.00    3363.69     0,00      0
I1T1R  C01PONEN1i                                                     122414.30 264078.4  111642.25  498134.98   76636.15 4167S.64     Si
2. Strengthening National 0LC Cacitits
..manalf..SR.   SulU*
INUESIIIENT COSTS
P.UMhicles                                                                 0.00  34658.96      0.00  34658.96    5332.1  2800.00    53
B.Field Equipent                                                           0.00  19497.22      0.00   19497.22    2999.57  2265.54     76
C.Cmputer I Office equiment                                                0.00    268.43      0.00     268.43      41.30    28.50    69
O.Sprt Perts                                                               0.00   8296.27      0.00    8246.27    1276.35   689.23     54
Sub-total                                                                  0.00  62720.89      0.00   62720.89    4649.37  5783.2?     60
RECURRI CoStS
Personnel duty allow.                                                  10864.80  19013.40  10864.890    043,00    6268.15     0.00      0
...... ------        .     .     .   . -_..--..--  ........   -----
Sutotal                                                                10864.80  19013.40  10864,88   40743.00    6268.15     0.00      0
OIORL C84PONT                                                          10864.80  81734.28  10864.80  103463.89   15917.52  5783.2?     36
3. Rtinforcuent of Surveillance and Uirnlng Systtn
a..n.n..n.n.n..w.ss                  i.a..a
IIUESTI¶ENT COSTS
R. telecwiocation Equilet                                                  0.00   1S40.54      0.00   1548,54    238.24   193.85      77
B.tleteorological Equipent                                                 0.00  44736.68      0.00   44736.68   6882.57  4846.15      70
C.Prospection UVhicles                                                     0,00   6822.37      0,0D     6822.37    1049.59   SS.00    52
O.Tnftoon tquipntent                                                       0.00    199.80      0.00     199.80      30.74    19.20     62
Sutotal                                                                    0.0  53307.i8       0.00   53307.38   8201.14  6600.20      68
RECURENT COSTS
0 311 equipaent                                                            0.00     32.00     32.00      64.00       9.85     4.92     50
Sub-total                                                                  0.00     32.00     32.00      64.00       9.85     4,92     50
TOTAL C1POIINT                                                             0.00  539.38       32.00   s337.38    8210.98  5605.13      68
4. Traning and technical assistame
TOTRL C    Nt                                                              0.00     97.50      0.00      97.50      1S.00    13.50     90
,..,,...__ . *
Total INUESTlIENT COSTS                                                    0.00 116125.75      0.00  116125.75   17865.50 11396.97    64
Total RECURENT COStS                                                  133Z.7.10 283123.83 122539.05 S38941.98   82914.15 41680.57      S0
total BASELINE COSTS                                                  133279.10 3992M9.50 1U2539.05  655067.73   00M7.65 63077.64    53
a.m..21m                                                                       .. ...as .9-sU   11n... . ....     .:   .. .a .. ..a
Physical Contingencies                                                  3895.37  25407.02  10435.42   39737.82    6113.51  3219.80    53
Price Contirgencies                                                        0.00  22239.48  10930.01   33169.99    5103.08  1786,08    35
Total PROJECT COStS                                                   137174.47 46846.68 14394.48  727975.54  11196.24 58083.41    62
2.u.a...n...n.n                                                      :um..n  nallan *151,1n   tBS3*           a.. *Slm.. 33s.....
Taxes                                                                  21661.84  70571.45  22724.60  114957.9   17685.83
foreign Exchdnge                                                       70830.39 238933.05  67911.11  377674.64



- 22 -
STAFF RPPRRISRL
DElOCRRTIC ONO POPULAR REPUBLIC OF RL6ERIR                                           TABLE  2
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
SUWIRRY RCCOUNTS COST SWIlARY
------------- Base Cost3 ------------             foreign Exchange
Total     Total  ----------------
1st      2nd       3rd           -      -----  Aount        I
campaign caipaign campaign
------------ (OR '000 )--------------   --- (USS'000) ---
1. INUESTHENT COSTS
R.UEHICLES
1.Four-Uheel-Driue trucks                                                 0.00  34658.96      0.00   34658,96    5332.15  2800.00    53
2.Four Uheel Drive vehicles                                               0.00   6822.3?      0.00    6822.3?    1019.59   551.00    52
3.Four-Uheel-Drive neteo vans                                             0.00   5713.65      0.00    5713.65    879.02   461.S4    53
4.Spare parts                                                             0.00   8296.2?      0.00    8296.27    1276.35   689.23    54
Sub-Total UEHICLES                                                        0.00  55491,24      0,00  55491,24   8537.11  4501.77      53
B.EQUIPIIENT
i.Field Equipment                                                         0.00  19497.22      0.00   19497.22    2999.57  2265.54    76
2.Conputer a Office Equipment                                             0.00   1929.19      0.00    1929.19     296.80   205.t2    69
3.Melecomunication Equipnent                                              0,00   5177.45      0.00    5177.tS     796.53   614.62    77
4.heteorological Equipment                                                0.00  33733.35      0.00   33733,35    5189.75  3776.92    73
5.Uideo a Printing Equipment                                              0.00    199.80      0.00     199.80      30.74    19.20    62
M.b-!otal EQJIOfiaU1                                                      0.00  60537,01      0.00   605370.1    9313.39  6881.70    74
C. TECHNICRL RSSISTRNCE                                                   0.00     97.50      0.00      97.50     15.00    13.50     90
Total INUESTllENT COSTS                                                   0.00 116125.75      0.00  116126.75   17865.50 11396.97    64
II.RECURRENT COSTS
R.PESTICIOES                                                          88586.70 182152.90  72352.50  343092.10   52783.40 28341.02    54
B.RENTAL Of RERIRL SPRRYING                                           28824.80  64568.60  28824.80  122218.20   18802.80 12757.40    68
C.TRANSPORT                                                             630.00   1095.00    575.00   2300.00      353.85   176,92    50
D.OPERRTION a IIRINTENRNCE                                                0.00   6090.73   2633.95    8721.6e    1342.26   405.22    30
E.PERSONNEL                                                           15237.60  29216.60  18152.80   62607.00    9631.85    0.00      0
sotcc=   Ma=222    Conoco    a332t2    323232   co3nts
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                133279.10 283123.83 122539.05  538941.98   82914.15 41680.57    50
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                 133279.10 399249.58 122539,05  655067.73  100779.65 53077.54    53
wusonunz.scmc...a.n                                                  233322  225222   223223   222322222  323323222 2233333*2-2 *wu
Physical Contingencies                                                 3895.37  25407.02  1043S.42   39737.82    6113.51  3219.80    53
Price Contingencies                                                       0.00  22239.98  10930.01   33169.99    5103.08  1786.08    35
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                  137174.47 446896.58 143904.48  727975.54  111996.24 58083.41
3332323233322                                                        322232C  c3u333232 22elon222   3332222.2 323322223 32232s2t 2
Taxes                                                                 21661.84  70571.45  22724.60  114957.89   17685.83
fortign Exchange                                                      70830.38 238933.05  67911.11  377674.5t



Table 3
- 23 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
IBRD  Fiscal Year               --      Bank Disbursements (US$ Million) /a …
By End of Semester       Cumulative        Cumulative
% Disbursed
June      30, 1989                     5.4                     5.4                9.3
December 31, 1989                     10.1                    15.5               26.7
June      30, 1990                   16.1                     31.6               54.5
December 31, 1990                     19.6                    51.2               88.3
June      30, 1991                     4.6                    55.8               96.2
December 31, 1991                      2.2                    58.0              100.0
/a Expected date of signing            :  January  31, 1989
effectiveness  :  February 15, 1989
completion      :  December 31, 1990
closing         :  December 31, 1991



TABLE 4
- 24 -
STAFF RPPRRISAL REPORT
DEflOCRRT!C OND POPULRR REPUBLIC OF RLGERIR
OESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Procured Under the Project
Estinated
Ite                        Quantity           Base Cost
DR '000
(1) Uehicles
Four-uhtel-drive trucks                    56             31660
Four-uheel-drive pick-ups                  29              6020
Fourvheel-drive neteo vans                 15              5710
Spare parts                                 -              8300
Subtotal                                         55490
(2) Conputer & Office Equipment                            1930
(3) Radio-Telecommunication Equipnent                      5180
(0) Mleteorological Equipnent                             33730
(5) Uideo 6 Printing Equipment                              200
(6) lanual sprayers & field Equipment                     19500
TOTRL      116030



Table 5
- 25 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
I.       Renforcement du Dispositif de la Lutte Anti-acridienne, Institut
National de la Protection des Veg6taux, Ministry of Agriculture,
October 1988.
II.      Excerpts from The Locust Handbook, Overseas Development Natural
Resources Institute, Overseas Development Administration of the
British Government, October 1988.
III.     Instruction Interministerielle No. 1 Relative a la Prevention et la
Lutte Contre le Criquet Pelerin, Ministries of the Interior,
Transport, Agriculture and Finance, July 1988.
IV.      Loi No. 83-03 du 5 f6vrier 1983, relative a la protection de
1'environnement.
V.       PROJECT WORKING PAPERS
i.  Situation et evaluation dispositif et besoin en lutte anti-acridienne
en Algerie
2.   Insecticide Stocks and Requirements, Environmental Aspects
3.   Maghreb Regional Locust Control Strategy and Organizational Structures
4.   Algeria:  Organization of Desert Locust Control Operations
5.   Algeria:  Procurement of Project-related Goods and Services
6.   Project Economic Analysis
7.   Project Cost Tables
VI.      Recommendations pour une Utilisation Rationnelle et Sans Risques des
Acridicides (draft)
VII.     Les sauterelles, Alphonse Daudet



- 26 -
CHART 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
Organigram
Plague Situation         Recession Period                   Comments
Central Level
r - -     …     Interministerial Committee      CILA formulates overall policy; coordinates
CILA                 at national level; presided over by Minister
l                                               of Agriculture; composed of representatives
of several Ministries and Departmenis;
meets every 10 days during plague.
Ministry of Agriculture
Plant Prot.    Other           INPV Director is deputy Director of PCC for
I  r - - - -- InsINPV iDtue        S         the duration of the plague; coordinates with
.I                                              the Ministry of Agriculture.
| Central       Locust  Other                    PCC is focal point of campaign. Develops,
r - - l Command       Contro    D                       proposes strategy; determines operations.
Post (POC)                                        Director of PCC is member of Cabinet of
Minister of Agriculture. Coordinates central
-FLogistics                                         activities with region (Maghreb), inter-
national (FAO) and provinces (PCW); all
- ---  Technical                                        PCC staff seconded from other Ministries/
Departments for duration of campaign.
t---d Information|
Provincial (Wilaya) & Commune Level -
Wali                 Wali is president of the PCW.
I      r --  -- - - - - (Governor)
L.   Wilaya                Agriculture     Other         Provincial (Wilaya) and Communal level
Comsnand    - -    Services    Department        Posts provide surveillance and treatment
-Post (PCW      Department                    services.
Communal
Units
normal line of command
- - - - - - line of command during plague



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
THE DESERT LOCUST-SCHLSTOCERCA GREGARIA
A.INTRODUCTION
1.       The Desert Locust has a vast invasion area of around 29 million
square kilometers, affecting 57 countries.L' In plague situations, which
occur intermittently, the Desert Locust has the potential to damage the
livelihood of a tenth of the world's population. Between plagues, the Desert
Locust occupies a smaller area, known as the recession area, where it lives in
scattered populations. With suitable weather conditions, these scattered
populations can breed successfully leading to a vast increase in the number of
insects that are highly mobile, being able to travel up to 1000 km in a week
given suitable climatic conditions.
B. LIFE CYCLE
2.       The life cycle comprises three stages: egg, hopper, adult, and is
illustrated in Figure 1 below. The length of life of individual adults varies
between 2.5 to 5 months, depending on how long they taLKe to become sexually
mature. Details on the Desert Locust life cycle may be found in Project Files.
Immature
ADULT
Mature adults
t            \   ~~~~copulate
/               \  ~~~~~~LAY egcos
Fledgling'
(last mouit)/
mo Slt      LIFECYCLEabsorb soil
moult4   gw                             moisture, develop
HOPPERS
moult3                                 HTCH
moult     2
mol2    2      1 instars
FIGURE 1
moult
1/ Source: Locust Handbook, Overseas Development Natural Resources Institute,
Overseas Development Administration, 1988.
601 15



- 28 -
Immature Adult
3.       Immature adults are usually pink in color, lighter or darker
depending on whether the locust has been bred under high or low temperatures.
Sexual maturation takes a few weeks (2-4 under suitable environmental
conditions) or a few months (as long as 6 months if subjected to low
temperatures and drought). The maturation process is usually associated with
the start of She rain-, season. Maturation usually starts with the male
locust, who triggers the process in females. Eggs present in the female
locust begin to accumulate yolk and grow to full size in this stage.
Mature Adult
4.       The mature adult is yellow in color, the male being brighter yellow
than the female. At this stage, large swarms break up into smaller ones, as
those locusts that mature first settle on the ground for breeding while the
others fly on. Copulation between mature adults can take between 3-14 hours.
Females then begin to select a suitable place to lay their eggs by probing and
testing the soil with the tip of the abdomen. Selection of a laying place
depends on the soil conditions, vegetation and the presence of other locusts.
Laying can occur at all times of the day and night and in a wide range of soil
types. Generally, the top layer, about 6 cm deep, is dry, and there is a
layer of soil below which is damp and sufficiently deep (around 4 cm) to take
all the eggs. When a suitable place has been found, the female deposits the
eggg into the soil. The whole process of probing, digging and laying takes
1.5-2 hours. A copulating and laying swarm usually stays in the same area for
1-2 days. Once eggs are fully developed inside the female, she can only keep
them for about 3 d6ays. Tht.s, if suitable soil conditions are not found, the
female lays her eggs o. the soil surface or on trees.  These eggs do not hatch.
5.       Females lay eggs in an egg pod where they are bound together by a
frothy secretion. An egg pod is 3-4 cm long and contains between 20 and 100
eggs. Egg pods of swarming locusts contain between 70 and 80 eggs for the
firat laying, between 60 and 70 for the second laying, and usually less than
50 for the third laying, if it occurs. Egg pods of locusts not in swarm
usually contain more eggs than those in swarms, and non-swarming locusts would
appear to lay an average of 5 pods in a lifetime. The area over which egg
pods are laid varies from a few square meters to over a square kilometer, and
is known as an egg field. Eggs are yellow when laid, turning brown in the
soil. They absorb their own weight of water from the soil, which enables them
to develop successfully.
Incubation and Hatching
6.       The rate at which eggs develop varies according to soil temperature.
In the summer breeding areas of West Africa, for example, the incubation
period takes between 10-14 days; in the cooler spring breeding areas of
Arabia, the period is between 25-30 days, while in North Africa it can take as
long as 70 days in exceptionally cold weather. When they are fully developed
in the eggs, the young hoppers wriggle out of the egg onto the surface, and
immediately shed a thin white skin. Hatching usually takes place either
shottly before or within 3 hours of sunrise, and all the hoppers from the same
pod usually hatch in the same morning. The hatching of an entire egg field
takes 3 days on average, with the majority on the second day.



- 29 -
Hoppers
7.       When hatching is complete. groups of hoppers are noticed all over the
egg field. These groups join together in larger groups called hopr-r bands.
In this stage, the hopper grows by casting off its skin from time to time, in
a process known as moulting. The new, soft skin underneath the old one cast
off can stretch for a short time, allowing the hopper to expand. Moulting
occurs five times during the development of the swarming locust (not including
the first skin-shedding that occurs at hatching), and six times in the
non-swarming or solitary phase. Each stage hetween moults is known as an
instar. The first instar is whitish in color, turning black in 1-2 hours
after hatching. A pale color pattern develops as the first instar is ready
for moulting. In the second instar, the pattern is more obvious. The third
instar sees the development of wing buds, which are larger in the fourth
instar where the hopper is conspicuously black and yellow. The color of the
fifth instar is bright yellow, with a black pattern. Wing buds are longer but
still cannot be used for flight. The final moult is from the fifth instar to
the adult stage. The young adult is called a fledgling, and does not grow in
size but gradually increases in weight. It is usually pink in color, and the
head and body are relatively soft. Between the first instar and fledgling
stages, the hopper grows from an average 7 mm in length to 50 mm, and
increases in weight from 30-40 mg to 1000-1200 mg. Fledglings gradually
become hard and are able to fly, at which stage they become immature adults.
C. PHASES OF THE DESERT LOCUST
8.       Locusts exist in different phases, as scattered individuals in a
recession area (solitarious) or as swarms throtughout the invasion area
(gregarious). In the latter phase, the insects have an ability to change
their color, behavior, shape and physiology. Color and behavior are the two
characteristics that change first.
Color
9.       In the solitary phase, an adult is likely to be pale grey or beige
when immature, and pale yellow on maturation. In the gregarious phase
(swarms), the adult is bright pink when immature and bright yellow when mature.
Behavior
10.      Solitarious locusts live separately, and hoppers do not generally
move about together. They are difficult to see since they blend in with their
surroundings. Gregarious hoppers move in marching bands and are visible
through their distinct black markings. The bright colored adults move
together in cohesive day-flying swarms.
The origin of Plagues
11.      Three processes are involved in the formation of gregarious
populations following successful breeding. In the concentration process,
solitarious locusts moving into a seasonal breeding area may be concentrated
by wind convergence and settle in certain areas which are especially
favorable, notably those where it has rained recently and where there is green
vegetation to provide food, shelter and moist soil for egg laying. Within
these generally favorable habitats, locusts may further concentrate on a
smaller scale when they are sheltering, roosting, basking and, most



- 30 -
importantly, when they are laying. Such local concentrations may result in
dense groups of eggs being laid by solitarious locusts in a restricted area,
resulting in large-scale multiplication. When hoppers emerge from the eggs,
they invariably encounter other hoppers; as a result of these repeated
encounters they start to gregarize. The hoppers become conditioned co the
presence of other hoppers and start to form small basking groups, then small
marching groups. If there are sufficiently large numbers of hoppers present,
the marching groups can join up and form marching bands and later swarms.
Occasionally, these processes occur in a succession of geographically distinct
but inter-related seasonal breeding areas, and, if the gregarious populations
do not die down, result in plagues.
D. BEHAVIOR PATTERNS OF SWARMING LOCUSTS
12.      Behavior of the Desert Locust is affected by a wide variety of
external factors which characterize the habitat. Weather is the dominant
variable.
Hoppers
13.      Hoppers tend to have a general pattern of daily activity, summarized
as follows. In the early morning, before dawn, hoppers are usually found
roosting in bushes. Shortly before sunrise, hoppers descend from these bushes
and begin a slow, dense marching, which lasts till midday, punctuated by
occasional ground grouping. Roosting may occur in the middle of the day if
the weather is very hot. Afternoon marching stops before sunset, followed by
ground grouping prior to roosting for the night. Hoppers may rnar, h in the
night.  The main feeding period occurs when the hoppers g, ii,  i he bushes for
their evening roost, but they may also feed when marching. MalLy kinds of
plants are eaten by hoppers, but they seem to have certain preferences which
are important to observe for insecticide spraying purposes.
14.      Hopper bands vary in size from a few square meters to several square
kilometers. They tend to occur in groups, and the presence of one band
generally indicates others nearby. The joining and splitting of bands causes
changes in the number of hoppers in them, and sometimes bands of different
ages join together so that hoppers of different instars occur in the same
band. The size of a band also changes during the day: a marching band may be
8 times that of the same band roosting or in ground groups. In addition,
bands get larger as the individual hoppers in them increase in size: a
fifth-instar band may te 20-30 times as large as a first-instar band. It is
therefore easier and mere economical to destroy bands in the early instars.
In a marching band, the hoppers are more dense at the leading edge, with the
density decreasing at the trailing edge where hoppers are usually scattered.
It is useful to find the fronts of hopper bands when spraying, since if the
leaders stop to feed on bait, the ones following are likely to do the same.
15.      Large bands move quicker and farther than small bands of the same
instar. The thicker the vegetation, the more slowly bands will move through
it. Sunny weather also encourages quick movement of the band. Bands
generally move downwind, in the same direction for several days at a time.
Very often, all the bands in a large area move in the same general direction,
especially in flat, unbroken country. Barrier spraying may be possible in
these conditions.



- 31 -
Adults
16.      The Desert Locust is characterized by its great mobility.I'  The
energy needed for flight is derived from fat stored inside the body. The
longest flights are made by immature locusts which do most feeding and store
fat: the weight of fat in a newly fledged locust is around 10-15 mg (body
weight 1000-1500 mg), two weeks after fledgling, the weight of fat has
increased to 40-60 mg (body weight 1700-2000 mg), while 4-5 weeks after
fledgling, it is 250-300 mg (body weight 2000- 2500 mg). Locusts are
cold-blooded animals, and their activity is affected by air temperature and
sunshine.
17.      The size of Desert Locust swarms ranges from less than one square
kilometer to several hundred square kilometers; the volume density varies from
one locust per thousand cubic meters to 10 locusts per cubic meter.
Stratiform swarms are generally seen in overcast weather conditions or in the
late afternoon, when convection has died down. In this formation, topmost
locusts are around 100 meters above the ground. Cumuliform swarms are seen
for the greater part of the day in sunny conditions, and are caused by locusts
being taken up sometimes to 1000 meters by convection currents.  Large swarms
fly higher than small ones; a large swarm may appear as several small swarms a
few days later depending on weather conditions.
18.      Swarms generally fly by day and settle on vegetation at night at a
roosting site. Shortly after sunrise, locusts start crawling about on
vegetation; a few may jump or take short flights. For the next 2 hours or so,
a dense carpet of locusts is on the ground, absorbing the sun's rays. The
amount of local flying increases, with streams of locusts flying in different
directions while still remaining within the area of the roosting site. The
majority of locusts become airborne by around 10 am. As air temperatures rise
and convection starts, the locusts rise higher into the air and the swarm
begins to leave the roosting site in a movement referred to as mass
departure. The swarm remains in flight as a whole, but there are nearly
always many locusts settling temporarily beneath the swarm, particulaily at
the leading edge. Near the trailing edge, they take off again and follow the
rest of the swarm. The swarm therefore moves in a rolling fashion. The swarm
settles soon after sunset and engages in heavy feeding.
Meteorology
19.      The steadier the wind direction, the steadier will be the direction
taken by the swarm. In unsettled weather or in mountainous country with
frequent changes in wind patterns, movement is more irregular. The speed at
which a swarm travels is less than the wind speed, since all locusts in a
swarm are not flying at the same time. Since swarms travel downwind, they
eventually arrive at a place where masses of air converge. Synoptic weather
maps can be used to determine where swarms are likely to be found.
Cooperation between a country's locust control orgaaization and its
meteorlogical services is therefore very important. Converging air masses
produce certain recognizable weather systems in different parts of the world
at different times of the year. The Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ or
Inter-Tropical Front) is one such system. Swarms tend to congregate along
1/ Locusts suspended in a windtunnel can go on flapping their wings non-stop
for 6-17 hours. In addition, locusts can stay in the air longer by
gliding some of the time.



- 32 -
this belt, moving northwards into North Africa and the Middle-East from late
September onwards, often during periods of warm southerly winds associated
with the passage eastwards of depressions through the Mediterranean. Areas of
convergence are also those where rain is most likely to fall. As a result,
there is likely to be vegetation for feeding and moistness in soil for
egg-laying.
20.      At present, weather maps for for some parts of the invaded or
infested area are not available. As weather information improves, it should
be possible to have a fuller understanding of swarm movements and thus to
improve forecasting.
E. SEASO'NAL MOVEMENTS OF SWARMING LOCUSTS
21.      There is no single area from which Desert Locust plagues start.
Since the locust requires moist soil for egg laying and egg development and
hoppers need fresh vegetation on which to feed, they are only able to breed
successfully during periods of rainfall.
22.      Spring breeding areas are associated with the spring rainfall in
North Africa, the Middle-East, Southern Iran and Pakistan. The resulting
swarms move southwards as these areas dry up to the belt where summer rains
occur. Countries affected are Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Chad, Sudan, Ethiopia
and Southern Arabia. Swarms also move southeastwards to the monsoon rainfall
areas of Pakistan and India. Winter breeding takes place around the Red Sea
coasts. Figures 2-4 illustrate the areas where hopper banes have been
reported and the areas likely to be invaded by the adults of the next
generation. However, while the above indicates the general seasonal
distribution of breeding areas as observed and recorded, large infested areas
during plague situations may result in swarm movements that differ somewhat:
summer breeding during ,988 is expected to result in swarms moving into
Algeria from the South-East (Niger, Chad and W. Sudan) as well as from the
South-West (N. Mauritania and Mali).
I                                                     -
Spring breeding afeas of the Desert Locust.
FIGURE 2



- 33 -
Sumner breeding areas of the Desert Locust.                  FIGURE  3
W,inter b        ama of the     rt ,,oc -                       FiGURE *  - 4
V'linorbradngarssofth   Deet Lcs.FGR 



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
THE DESERT LOCUST PLAGUE
A. BACKGROUND
1.       The origlns of the current desert locust plague lie in the
uncontrolled breeding that took place beginning in 1985 along the western
coasts of the Red Sea. The resulting locust populations were able to continue
reproducing throughout 1986, due primarily to exceptionally suitable climatic
conditions in the area. By spring 1987, several areas in Western Sudan,
Ethiopia and Chad were infested with locusts.
2.       The combined effect of the Inter-Tropical Front and the Libyan
anticyclone between the 17th and 20th parallels (North) resulted in easterly
and south-easterly wind systems in this region. Large locust swarms from
Sudan, Ethiopia and Chad spread to other countries through these winds in
end-September/early October 1987. One flight path took locust swarms
north-east into Mali and Niger; the other carried them west into Central and
North-Eastern Mauritania in November 1987.
3.       Control efforts in Niger and Mali, directed at both adult locusts and
hoppers resulting from local reproduction, took place between October and
December 1987. However, while these efforts were able to reduce locust
activity in the area, two large swarms escaped treatment and flew north into
Southern Algeria in mid-October 1987. Control efforts in Mauritania were
concentrated in the Central part of the country; locust populations that had
settled in North-Eastern Mauritania were able to reproduce intensively, given
extremely suitable climatic conditions. The resulting swarms moved further
north into the Western Sahara, and invaded Southern Morocco beginning in
mid-November 1987.
4.       Between end-December 1987 and mid-February 1988, locust activity was
concentrated in Mauritania and the Western Sahara. Towards end-February and
early-March, however, a warm air current across Northern Mauritania and the
Sanaran Atlas carried swarms resulting from winter breeding north into
South-Western Algeria and South-Eastern Morocco. Later generations were, on
the other hand, carried south into Central and Southern Mauritania, Mali and
Niger during March and April 1988. Some swarms were sighted as far south as
Senegal, Gambia and Burkina Faso in April i988.



- 35 -
B. THE LOCUST SITUATION IN ALGERIA
Evolution over 1987-1988
5.       The first major swarms of the current plague invaded Algeria in the
first fortnight of October 1987. These originated from northern Niger and
Mali, and were partially destroyed in the South of Algeria. Escapees moved
north-west, and small, isolated groups were found as far north as the coastal
areas and the shores of the Mediterranean. Four major swarms invaded Algeria
in the first fortnight of December 1987; these originated from Mauritania and
the Western Sahara.
6.       Locust activity between end-December 1987 and end-February 1988 was
limited: no new swarms were sighted in Algeria during this period. However,
beginning end-February, Algeria was invaded by large swarms originating from
Mauritania and the Western Sahara. These swarms moved rapidly north to the
southern foothills of the Saharan Atlas, where they were able to reproduce.
Egg laying was concentrated in moist riverbeds. During April, swarms having
escaped treatment and those resulting from new intiltrations from Eastern and
South-Eastern Morocca were carried east along the foothills of the Saharan
Atlas; some of these were able to find passage corridors through the mountains
into the High Plateaus and High Plains. Hopper bands resulting from local
reproduction began to form during the month of June.
7.       Between October 1987 and July 1988, over 2 million hectares were
treated against locusts; of this, some 1.35 million hectares were treated
against swarms and over 675,000 hectares treated against hoppers. Aerial
spraying was undertaken for about 70% of the area treated. Requirements in
pesticides totalled some 2.5 million litres.
Forecasts over 1988-1989
8.       According to the FAO, climatic conditions continue to be favorable
for wide-spread breeding of locusts in the Sahel. Large populations of highly
mobile immature adults have been sighted in Sudan; these are moving west. In
Chad, locust populations have been signalled moving east to west. In
Mauritania, infestations continue to expand from the Center to Western,
South-Western and Northern parts of the country.
9.       Given anticipated wind systems in the Sahel, it is very likely that
locust swarms sighted in Sudan and Chad will invade Mali and Niger in the
first instance, with subsequent movement into Mauritania, Morocco and
Algeria. Swarms already moving into northern Mauritania are expected to
invade the Western Sahara, and eventually South-Western Algeria and Southern
Morocco. It is estimated that locust invasions in Algeria over the period
October 1988-February 1989 will necessitate treatment of 2 million hectares.
10.      The spring/summer campaign over the period March-July 1989 is
expected to cover 3 million hectares. It will be directed towards swarms
resulting primarily from winter breeding in Mauritania. The area requiring
treatment in Algeria will depend to a large extent on control activities that
are undertaken elsewhere in the infested areas of the region. If Algeria is



- 36 -
unable to effectively control swarms before they move into the foothills of
the Saharan Atlas, it is very likely that these will either find passage
corridors to the High Plateaus and High Plains, or move east into Tunisia.
Details on the observed movement of locusts in the region may be found in
project files. The attached map indicates anticipated locust flight path in
Algeria.
11.      Locust movement and activity are difficult to predict beyond a time
horizon of one and possibly two campaigns, given that they depend on the
weather (ecological conditions, wind systems) and on control activity that
will take place in other infested areas. If climatic conditions remain
favorable during summer 1989 in the Sahel, Algeria will once again be invaded
by locusts from the south. Given the large infested area in the region (FAO
estimates that some 9.7 million hectares are currently infested in the Sahel;
as of end-September 1988, barely 5% of this area had been treated), it is very
likely that 1.5 million hectares will require treatment in Algeria over the
period October 1989 - January 1990.
12.      The above forecasts of a.Liticipated locust activity and thus areas to
be treated must be considered to be indicative, given the various factors
involved, which are either not known (such as area that will be treated in
other infested countries) or themselves difficult to predict (such as
weather). More accurate forecasts can only be made closer to the time if
actual invasion.



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRA'LiC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT
PESTICIDE USE`'
Pesticide Requirements
1.       Pesticide requirements were calculated based on:
(a)  areas requiring treatment over October 1988 - January 1990;
(b)  pesticide dosage per hectare; and
(c)  allowable losses due to formulation, transport, calibration and
cleaning.
2.       Pesticide requirements have been derived from the area to be treated
of 6.5 million hectares. Total losses of 15X (0% in formulation, 10 due to
transport and 2% for calibration and cleaning) have also been factored in.
However, in light of (i) existing stocks; and (ii) different pesticide
formulations and dosage rates required, the basis of calculation is the area
to be treated with a particular formulation.
3.       Existing stocks of pesticides, at an average dosage rate of 0.7
liter/hectare, are sufficient to treat 1.4 million hectares (including
losses). Further requirements are therefore to treat 5.1 million hectares.
Pesticide requirements, based on the formulations to be used and factoring in
losses as described above, amount to some 4 million liters. Details on the
formulations and dosage rates are provided below:
Active Ingredient   Formulation    Rate /a
Fenitrothion          96% ULV        0.5 1/ha
Dichlorvos            30% ULV        0.5 1/ha
Deltamethrin            3% ULV       0.5 1/ha
Chlorpyriphos         45% ULV        0.5 1/ha
Malathion             95% ULV         1.0 1/ha
Bendiocarb            20% ULV        0.5 1/ha
Malathion             50% EC          2.0 1/ha
/a   does not include losses
ULV: Ultra Low Volume; EC: Emulsifiable Concentrate
1/ Details on the aspects discussed in this annex may be found in Project
Files.



- 38 -
Pesticide Acceptabilit.y
4.       Two criteria for acceptability have been retained:
(a)  the product must be on the FAO list of recommended pesticides for
locust control; and
(b) if the product is to be used on or in the vicinity of food or fodder
crops, it must be acceptable to the Bank and be so registered in
Algeria
5.       The products which Algeria currently envisages buying are listed
above in paragraph 3. All of these are on the FAO list of recommended
pesticides for desert locust control. Only Malathion 952 ULV holds a full
registration for use against locusts in Algeria; the others hold a provisional
authorization for sale. These products are widely registered within the OECD
for uses of a specialized nature which are comparable to locust control
operations in terms of operator hazard. For use on or in the vicinity of food
crops, all the products listed in paragraph 3 except for Dichlorvos have been
judged acceptable. Use of Dichlorvos will be limited to aerial treatment,
supervised by qualified personnel in desert areas.
6. There are some products on the FAO list that are not currently envisaged
for purchase by Algeria. These are: Sumicombi Alpha, Lindane+Karate, Diazinon
and Lambdacyhalothrin. These products would be acceptable for uf if so
desired by Algeria. However, only Lambdacyhalothrin should be used on or in
the vicinity of food crops.
Impact on the Environment
7.       From an environmental stand-point, Fenitrothion is highly toxic to
birds, and other organisms are also likely to be affected. However, none of
the above products is especially persistent in the environment; they degrade
to harmless substances within days. Therefore, although any wide-spread use
of pesticidea is undesirable, it is unlikely that the use of the above
pesticides will result in excessive, long-term environmental damage. Any
effects registered are likely to be transient. In addition, the quantities of
active ingredients applied to each hectare are small. Thus, even in cases of
re-treatment or serious over-dosing (50-100), there is little risk of
pollution of the environment or of underground aquifers. The only real threat
to the environment will come from contaminated water used for the washing of
aircraft tanks and empty drums, as discussed in paragraph 12 below.
8. Algeria has banned the use of Dieldrin, one of the most controversial
pesticides for the treatment of locusts, since 1969. Dieldrin is particularly
persistent in the environment and is highly toxic to mammals.
Safeguard Measures Envisaged
9.       Health of Pesticide Operators.  Protective clothing will be supplied
to all individuals who are considered to be at risk of exposure to
pesticides. Information on the hazards of and potential poisoning due to
pesticide use is provided at all sites concerned. Antidotes are provided at
each regional pesticide storage depot; public health services have been
similarly alerted. The pesticides envisaged for use are for the most part
readily antidotable. Pyrethroid insecticides such as Deltamethrin have no



- 39 -
antidote, but are of such low toxicity to humans as to present negligible risk
.inless willingly abused.
10.      Testimgfor Residues on Crops.  The National Agency for the Protection
of the Environment (ANPE) is responsible for testing for residues on food
crops exposed to pesticides. At present, only imported items are tested,
given that all products used on food and other crops in Algeria are properly
registered and therefore unlikely to present risk if properly used. ANPE is
in the process of setting up an eco-toxicological laboratory. This facility
is expected to be operational by early 1989. ANPE intends to undertake
regular testing of food and other crops that may be exposed to the wide-spread
pesticide use envisaged for locust control.
11.      DisDosaof Pesticide Druuns. Current practice in the disposal of
drums is as follows. After use, the drums are brought back to the regional
storage depots (19 in number). They are washed and then put to three
different uses: (i) to cor.tain water for cleaning aircraft tanks and related
uses; (ii) to contain fuel  or aircraft and trucks; and (iii) returned to
ASMIDAL (pesticide formulatton unit) for re-use. All the above uses have been
judged acceptable. Drums are kept under locked and guarded conditions. These
precautionary measures are taken to prevent the drums from being used for the
storage of water or foodstuff by humans in the vicinity of treatment sites.
At the end of their useful life, the drums are sent to a metal reclamation
factory and melted down for metal. This process should not pose risk.
12.      Pesticide Washin=s.  Run of fs from pesticide washings into the ground
pose a risk to underground aquifers, which may become contaminated with
pesticides. Two possible solutions to satisfactory disposal of pesticide
effluents are:
(a) the installation at each location of a small, specially designed unit
for effluent treatment; or
(b) a shallow concrete tank at each location into which effluents are
drained and mixed with soil and lime. Effluents are then allowed to
degrade to harmless substances through evaporation; the soil is then
scattered over a desert area.
13.      The Algerian Government is currently in the process of establishing
safety procedures nationwide to avoid undue contamination of underground
aquifers from effluents. The disposal of pesticide washings is being
considered in priority, and satisfactory measures for their disposal are being
formulated. These will be implemented and communicated to the Bank by
March 31, 1989.
14.      Safety lnstaUations at ASMIDAL. Two formulation units are in
operation for the past four and five years respectively at ASMIDAL. The
overall capacity of the plant at normal operation (2 shifts/day, 5 days/week)
is 160,000 liters per week. This capacity can be raised to 288,000
liters/week for a short period of about 2-3 weeks. A visit to this facility
has raised several questions about the safety of its installations.
Specifically, the layout of the facility is not conducive to good fire
protection and fire-fighting equipment is inadequate. There are limited
washing facilities in the plant. Eye protection is not regularly in use.
Antidotes are not available on site. The floor of the formulation room is
uneven and not adequately cleaned of chemical infused dust. Thus, while the
end-products are satisfactory from a quality standpoint, the facilities in
which they are formulated require upgrading in terms of safety measures.
*oosO



- 40 -
15.      The Government is in the process of examining this facility with a
view to enforcing internationally acceptable safety standards. Action has
been initiated to implement safety-related upgrading of ADMIDAL. In order to
be eligible to bid for pesticide contracts foreseen in the proposed project,
ASMIDAL's facilities would need to conform to the standards set forth in the
Formulation of Pesticides in Developing Countries, published by UNIDO. An
inspection of the premises would take place by a suitably qualif. 'd expert
prior to any contract award to ASMIDAL involving the formulation of pesticides.
16.      Ecologicasy Sensitive Areas. In conjunction with INPV, ANPE will
prepare a list of ecologically sensitive areas. This list, which will be
communicated to the Bank by March 31, 1989, will identify as appropriate areas
within national parks, protected areas, wetlands or other areas which should
not be sprayed in order to protect natural habitat and/or wildlife. The list
will be accompanied by a series of maps which clearly identify the
ecologically sensitive areas. A formal consultation procedure will be
established between these organizations and INPV to assure that spraying
impacts to ecologically sensitive areas are limited to the fullest extent
possible.
17.      EnavronmentalMonitorng.  A Bank specialist will visit Algeria to
follow up on the environmental issues discussed above. Specific attention
will be paid to (i) determining, with the Algerian authorities, appropriate
procedures for the implementation of environmental safeguard measures; and
(ii) designing an appropriate environmental protection plan in the context of
the Project. Bank environmental specialists would also participate in
supervision missions to monitor compliance with these action. As part of
regular project monitoring, the status reports to be provided by INPV to the
Bank would include, inter alia, an evaluation of the environmental safeguard
measures being implemented.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21223
m  d~                                          ~
0 f <- K #/ >WM    A O                                                                                                 ,j
'>  OM  dRo tt ° 5/F1f ) k Ahr$.',d.                      t
At/onoic  Cc.e n/            _ < ~-,. Mo n¢- ^' 
I                             5..*9$Edl bOI Abbes\                           D       EoEhkro      j                       / zEv
o' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~a    4' 9                 -~ __  _                ,,
,)~~~~~~~~~~~h h-doso"                                          s
O-,glo            
AB~ /  gS ll/ehor
.d -
A LIGnE RIA                                                                                            A
K.d                                                             Q Adror ,
'4 \( ° o5rmt,
DESERT LOCUST CONTROL PROJECT  \( 
Desert Locust Control Flight Paths and  Control Network"-. 
Desert Locust Flight Paths               Internotionol Airports      nm/P¢    S
Boundaries of Intervention Zones          Secondary Airporhts                                               /0YS;fSA
Wilaya Command Posts                  c    Selected Towns and Vlillages     < >/>
:D   Pestkide Storage Depots                   N oational CapitlelIGzoO                                                                 rws8Srlo
Mountainous Areas                        Rlvers and Intermittent Streams                                     T t °° - oo ....... wpO SolOSA
----  international BoundIries
_ _   _                i                                  - - I                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 19h8



