Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3017 AL
(Desert Locust Control Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
 and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 2, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3017 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February 2, 1989, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "INPV" means the Borrower's National Institute for Plant Protection  
established and operating under the supervisory authority of the Borrower's  Ministry 
of Agriculture pursuant to the Borrower's Order No. 75-11 dated  February 27, 1975, as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
     (b)  "PCC" means the Central Command Post, the executing body of the Borrower's 
interministerial committee in charge of policy-making for locust control (CILA);
     (c)  "ONM" means the Borrower's National Meteorological Office, established and 
operating under the supervisory authority of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport 
pursuant to the Borrower's Order No. 75-25 dated April 29, 1975, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
     (d)  "ASMIDAL" means the Borrower's National Fertilizer and Pesticides Marketing 
Board, established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 84-238 dated  September 1, 
1984, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
     (f)  "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 to 
December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred  to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million dollars ($58,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory  
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the  Special Account shall be  made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i) "Interest  Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
Page  3
a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 1 
and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity  with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
     Section 3.02. For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project the  Borrower 
shall ensure that: (a) only pesticides approved for locust control   by the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations shall be used on the Borrower's 
territory; and (b) only those pesticides, referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, which shall have been selected in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to 
the Bank, shall be used for spraying on food crops or in the vicinity of food crops.
     Section 3.03. For purposes of preventing environmental pollution and  pesticide 
leakage into groundwater, the Borrower shall: (a) develop pesticide effluent disposal 
mechanisms satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) take all measures necessary to ensure the 
implementation not later than March 31, 1989 of such mechanisms at all regional 
pesticide depots, airstrips and other places where pesticide washings may occur.
     Section 3.04.  For purposes of protecting natural habitat and wildlife, the 
Borrower shall: (a) develop and furnish to the Bank for the Bank's review and comments 
a program designed to limit to the fullest extent possible  pesticide spraying in 
ecologically sensitive areas; and (b) take all measures necessary to ensure the 
implementation not later than March 31, 1989 of said program, taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the  
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of  the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
         (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
Page  4
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
        (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
         (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
 ARTICLE V
 Termination
     Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of  Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
     Section  6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministere des Finances
         Immeuble Mauretania
         Place du Perou
         Algiers
         Democratic and Popular
         Republic of Algeria
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              FINPLAN                           52062
              ALGER
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly  authorized 
representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective  names  
in  the  District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
Page  5
                   DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                   By /s/ Rabah Kerouaz
Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the  percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Pesticides               30,000,000      100% of foreign
                                              expenditures,
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost) and
                                              50% of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
(2)  Aircraft and Ground      13,500,000      100% of foreign
     Support Services                         expenditures and
                                              70% of local
                                              expenditures
(3)  Vehicles and Spare        4,000,000      100% of foreign
     Parts                                    expenditures
(4)  Equipment                 5,480,000      100% of foreign
                                              expenditures,
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost) and
                                              60% of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
(5)  Consultants'                 20,000      100%
     Services
(6)  Unallocated               5,000,000
     TOTAL                    58,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  6
     (a)  The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall  be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this  
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $5,800,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in carrying out the  Borrower's 
locust control program; and (ii) reinforce permanent surveillance  and warning systems 
to better predict locust activity and movement and   facilitate planning and 
implementation of future locust control programs.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Locust Control Campaigns
1.   Carrying out of three locust control campaigns over the period October 1988 to 
January 1990 including:
     (a)  aerial spraying of approximately 4.5 million hectares of infested areas; and
     (b)  ground spraying of about 2 million hectares of infested areas.
2.   Provision of pesticides required for the campaigns referred to in Part A (1) of 
this Schedule.
Part B:   Strengthening the Borrower's Desert Locust Control
          Capabilities
1.   Provision to INPV of: specialized heavy-duty 4-wheel drive vehicles required for 
locust treatment, including equipment required therefor; knapsack  sprayers and 
related protective apparel; pumps; and camping equipment.
2.   Provision to INPV of office equipment, microcomputers and related equipment to 
process locust-related information collected during the locust control campaigns.
Part C:   Reinforcement of Comprehensive Surveillance and Warning
          Systems
1.   Improvement of the existing telecommunications network through the provision of a 
radio network to link the PCC, the provincial locust control  command posts and the 
mobile surveillance teams operating in the field.
2.   Provision to INPV of prospection vehicles to assist in locust control activities 
and in monitoring potential risk areas.
3.   Provision to ONM of meteorological equipment for about 9 fixed meteorological 
stations and of about 5 mobile stations to provide meteorological support for locust 
control activities in areas not served by fixed stations.
4.   Provision of extension equipment to assist INPV and PCC in information 
dissemination.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the capabilities of INPV in  
locust control, including provision of training in safe and effective pesticide 
handling and application and in prospection methods.
Page  7
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning September 1, 1994
     through   March 1, 2004                     2,900,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
Page  8
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Aircraft and Ground Support Services
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid  packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each.
3.   With respect to contracts for supply of pesticides under paragraph 1 above, 
suppliers shall be required to certify that the pesticides are to be  formulated in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject  to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and   paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Pesticides for the first locust control campaign (October 1988  -  February 1989) 
costing in the aggregate up to the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be purchased by INPV 
from ASMIDAL under negotiated contracts.
2.   Pesticides and related goods which are of a propriety nature and which are 
available from only one source may be procured through negotiated contracts, subject 
to the Bank's approval of the product to be so procured and provided that the source 
of supply is eligible under the Guidelines and that the aggregate cost thereof shall 
not exceed the equivalent of US$4,000,000.
3.   Protective masks, minor spraying equipment, office equipment, microcomputers and 
related equipment, and extension equipment, estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from at least three different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
4.   Camping and minor equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.   Air services for the first locust control campaign (October 1988 - February 1989) 
costing in the aggregate up to the equivalent of $8,250,000, and ground support 
services for aerial spraying, regardless of the cost thereof, shall be procured under 
Page  9
negotiated contracts with Air Algerie.
6.   Contracts for aircraft services, other than those referred to in Part C.5 of 
Section I of this Schedule, shall be awarded on the basis of price quotations 
solicited from at least three suppliers from at least three different countries, 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract subject to the provisions of Part A.1 above, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of  the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract subject to the provisions of Part C.6 above, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, before a final award is made,  the name of the 
supplier to which it intends to award the contract together  with a report on the 
evaluation and comparison of the quotations received and the draft contract proposed 
to be executed with the selected supplier. The Borrower shall make such modifications 
in said draft contract as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph (a), the procedures 
set forth in  paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two  conformed copies of the contract together 
with the other information required  to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the Borrower in strengthening the capabilities of INPV in 
locust control, the Borrower shall employ environmental and entomologist consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  10
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of  the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
     (b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
baasis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the  Loan  allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special  Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  11
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this  Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
