Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16833
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1912-CD)
June 30, 1997
Agriculture Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 277 (appraisal)
US$1.00 = CFAF 319.10 (1989)
US$1.00 = CFAF 269.39 (1990)
US$1.00 = CFAF 283.55 (1991)
US$1.00 = CFAF 263.25 (1992)
US$1.00 = CFAF 288.86 (1993)
US$1.00 = CFAF 536.83 (1994)
US$1.00 = CFAF 512.22 (1995)
US$1.00 = CFAF 512.30 (1996)
SDR 1.00 = US$1.41 (July 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       African Development Bank
ADF        African Development Fund
AE         Auxiliaire d'Elevage (Livestock Auxiliary)
AFF        Abattoir Frigorifique de Farcha (Farcha Refrigerated Abattoir)
ATE        Adjoint Technique d'Elevage (Livestock Technician)
BCPP       Bovine Contagious Pleuro-Pneumonia
CECP       Commission d'Enquete et de Contr6le Parlementaire
(Parliamentary Survey and Control Commission)
CEPREVU   Cellule de Pre-Vulgarisation (Pre-Extension Unit)
COP        Cellule d'Organisation Pastorale (Pastoral Organization Unit)
DERA       Direction de l'Elevage et des Ressources Animales
(Livestock and Animal Resources Directorate)
DGIS       Direction Generale de la Cooperation Internationale
(Directorate General for International Cooperation (Netherlands))
ENATE      Ecole Nationale des Techniciens de l'Elevage
(National Livestock Techniciens School)
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GDS        Groupements de Defense Sanitaire (Health Protection Groups)
GIP        Groupements d'Interet Pastoral (Pastoral Interest Groups)
IES        Improved Extension System
LRVZ       Laboratoire de Recherche Veterinaire et Zootechnique (Farcha)
(Farcha Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Laboratory)
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Acting Director: David Berk
Technical Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader: Francois Le Gall (Senior Livestock SpeKcialist)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAGAVET Magasin Gen6ral d'Approvisionnement en Produits et Materiel
Veterinaires (General Veterinary Inputs and Equipment Supply Store)
MEHP       Ministry of Livestock and Pastoral Water Supply
NLP        National Livestock Project
ONDR       Office National de Developpement Rural (National Office for Rural
Development)
ONHIPV     Office National de Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise
(Natiorial Office for Pastoral and Village Water Works)
PARC       Pan-African Rinderpest Campaign
PCR        Project Completion Report
PB/PPCB    Peste Bovine/Peripneumonie Contagieuse Bovine
(Rinderpest/Contagious Bovine Peripneumonia)
PEP         Programme d'Ecologie Pastorale (Pastoral Ecology Program)
PPP        Programme Pilote Pastoral (Pastoral Pilot Program)
PSAP       Projet des Services Agricoles et Pastoraux
(Agricultural and Pastoral Services Project)
REPIMAT   R6seau d'Epid6mio-surveillance (Epidemiological Surveillance Network)
ROPANAT  Reseau d'Observation des Piturages Naturels du Tchad
(Chad Natural Rangelands Observation Network)
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SOTERA    Societ6 Tchadienne d'Exploitation des Ressources Animaux
(Chad Animal Resources Utilization Company)
SVA        Systenie de Vulgarisation Amn6liore (Improved Extension System--IES)
ZOP        Zone cl'Organisation Pastorale (Pastoral Organization Zone)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................................i
A.  INTRODUCTION  ........ .............................................................i
B.  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES  ......................................................................                                                       j
C.  IMPLEMENTATION  EX:PERIENCE  AND  RESULTS .....................................................................    ii
D. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............... iii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................................................1
A.  INTRODUCTION  ........ .............................................................I
B.  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ......................................................................1
C.  ACHIEVEMENT  OF PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ......................................................................3
Policy Components ......................................................................3
Investment Components ......................................................................4
D.  MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ......................................................................                                    6
Factors Not Generally Subject to Borrower's Control .....................................................................6
Factors Generally Subject to the Borrower's Control ......................................................................7
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency's Control ................................... ......................7
E.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................................8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ......................................................................8
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................................9
H.  PROJECT  IMPACT ASSEISSMENT ......................................................................9
I.   FUTURE  OPERATIONS .....................................................................                                                      I I
J.   MAJOR  LESSONS LEARNED .....................................................................                                                  12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................................................                                                   13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..............................                                                                                     13
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..............................                                                                                15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TiMETABLE ..............................                                                                                           15
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISB URSEMENTS -- CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................................ 1 6
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................                                     17
TABLE 6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...........................................BE................................... 18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .........................................                                                                      18
TABLE BA: PROJECT COSTS .........................................                                                                                  18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ..........................................1 9
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .........................................                                                                     19
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .........................................                                                                       20
TABLE 1 1:  COMPLIANCE WITHI OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ....................................................... 22
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES -- STAFF INPUTS .......................................................                                                  22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES-- MISSIONS ........................................................                                                       23
COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT .......................................... 24
A. COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ........................................... 25
B. STUDIES PRODUCED B Y THE PROJECT (SUBJECT OF ANNEX 7) .................................................... 27
NOTE ON THE SUPPORTrVE RESEARCH COMPONENT                                                             ....................................... 28
MAP: IBRD 21015






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CR. 1912-CD)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report for the National Livestock Project in Chad for
which an IDA credit in the amount of SDR 13.2 million (US$18.6 million equivalent) was approved
on May 31, 1988 and becamre effective on January 27, 1989.
2.     The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996 following a one-year extension. The last
disbursement took place on June 10, 1997 at which time the cumulative balance of SDR 2.8 million,
representing the undisbursed amount, was canceled.
3.     The ICR was prepared by Messrs. F. Le Gall, who visited Chad to carry out a completion
mission from February 12, 1997 to March 8, 1997, with the support of M. Adamou, local consultant,
and Desire Coquillat, and was reviewed by Messrs. C. de Haan, Jean Delion and Joseph Baah-
Dwomoh. It is based on the project documents, interviews with Bank staff, Government officials,
private persons and herders, and field trips in the country. The Borrower's representatives worked
closely with the mission, providing information and expressing views that are reflected in the aide-
memoire (Appendix A). They also contributed comments to the ICR. The Borrower did not prepare
a separate project completion report. The report was sent to the cofinanciers who did not make any
comments.



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CR. 1912-CD)
]EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    Chad is a landlocked country, of which about half is suitable for farming and grazing.
With an estimated per capita income of US$180.00 in 1995, Chad is ranked among the poorest
countries of the world. Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry, is the mainstay of
the economy and contributed more than half of GDP in 1995 and provided the livelihood of 87
percent of the population. The project was identified in June 1986 by an FAO/CP mission and
was initially conceived as a component of a larger Agricultural Sector Project. However, in view
of the need for further studies in the crop sector, compared with the more immediate
opportunities in the livestock sector, it was decided to develop the livestock component as a free-
standing project. The Pro'ject was prepared by an FAO/CP mission in October/November 1986
and appraised in July 1987 by a joint World Bank, African Development Fund (AfDB), Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (French-FAC) and Directorate General for International Cooperation
(DGIS-The Netherlands) mission.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.     The main objectives of the project were to increase national livestock production,
producer incomes and Government revenues on a sustainable basis. These objectives were to be
achieved through a combination of policy reforms and investments, leading to improved access
by producers to livestock health services and extension inputs.
3.    The objectives of the policy reforms were to: (a) increase the degree of cost recovery for
preventive and curative animal health services rendered by the public sector; (b) liberalize and
privatize the import and distribution of livestock inputs and most veterinary services; (c) reform
the livestock export circuits and liberalize marketing and export of livestock on hoof, by
abolishing the export quota system and SOTERA's control and monopoly functions, and by
simplifying the fiscal and administrative regulations affecting livestock marketing; (d) stabilize
staff recruitment by the M[inistry of Livestock and Pastoral Water Supply (MEHP) and improve
staff efficiency; and (e) define appropriate land tenure and pastoral water management policies
to achieve long-term resource conservation.



- ii -
4.    The investment components were aimed at strengthening sectoral institutions and
providing them with the necessary infrastructure and operating means as follows: (a) creation
and strengthening of livestock producer groups to play an expanded role in basic animal health
care, water and resource management and the rehabilitation of approximately 100 water points;
(b) improving input distribution and meat export by strengthening MAGAVET's wholesale
functions, increasing its working capital and expanding its regional network, and providing a line
of credit to assist about 40 veterinarians and/or livestock technicians in taking up private retail
distribution and clinical animal health service, and private traders in exportiing meat or meat by-
products; (c) strengthening the Farcha Laboratory to carry out producer-oriented research on
rangeland conservation, integration of livestock into the farming system and the economics of
disease control methods; (d) introducing efficient extension methods in the Livestock Service
and retraining its staff, rehabilitating Ministry of Livestock and Pastoral Water Supply (MEBP)
field facilities and providing them with basic veterinary and extension equipment and
appropriate transportation; and (e) strengthening MEHPS's planning, coordination, project
monitoring and water development capability, and building and equipping an additional office
for MEHP in N'Djamena.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESUJLTS
5.    The Project was able to set in motion the main reform programs that aimed at
strengthening the capacity of the MEHP and promoting the private sector. Measures were put in
place to encourage private enterprise, to stabilize the Ministry's work force, and to provide
appropriate training and human resource development programs. A system of cost recovery for
services rendered by the livestock agencies, previously free of charge, was introduced and a
Livestock Fund was set up to defray part of project operating costs. The monopoly held by the
state corporation supplying veterinary products (MAGAVET), was abolishedl, and the import and
wholesale distribution of veterinary drugs are now handled by four private companies. The
necessary legislation governing the privatization of veterinary medicine was enacted, and the
"health mandate" principle was accepted. SOTREA's monopoly for the export of animal
products and control of on-the-hoof stock was abolished. Procedures were simplified and the
unit export taxes reduced by 12 percent. Definition of a rangelands utilization policy, based on
the transfer of certain ownership rights to users, however did not materialize.
6.    The institutional strengthening component helped improve the Central Services of the
Ministry of Livestock, except for the monitoring and evaluation services. Strengthening field
services in terms of health inspection, outreach and extension activities, was accomplished in
part by constructing, rehabilitating and equipping livestock agencies and tIraining field staff.
The human resources training and management component largely met project expectations.
The applied research component which was to support field level project development activities
was only partially successful. The activities conducted in the framework of the 265 pastoral
groups (GIP), contributed to improvements both in animal health and in extension activities.
7.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. Overall, the project's objectives of augmenting
livestock production and increasing farmers' income have been met.  At start up, the
implementation of the project was hampered by delays in the effectiveness of the credit and also
by: (a) the lack of effective coordination in setting up the various financing arrangements; (b)
the lack of a common external aid policy regarding rangeland water works; (c) the unfavorable



- iii -
international economic situation for the export of Chad livestock (the situation improved from
1994 onward); and (d) the social and political difficulties, which had severe repercussions on the
country's entire political, economic and social life. Valuable lessons were learned in terms of
the speed at which the implementation of the development component (extension, research,
support to producer associations, and management of natural resources in pastoral areas) could
materialize. This led to the scaling down of the scope of these activities. Results have largely
improved since then. The good performance of the Government had a bearing on the
achievement of project objectives. These were: (i) the necessary contribution by the external
services to certain project activities which was otherwise not readily obtainable; and (ii) the
Government's counterpart contribution proved to be effective. Problems encountered by the
implementing agency included: a) the various reorganizations within the Ministry of Livestock;
the centralization of day-to-day management procedures; b) poor utilization of the external
training facilities offered by the project, and c) failure to make optimum use of available
technical assistance.
8.    Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. The Bank overestimated Chad's capacity
to implement a project involving different activities of which the Ministry of Livestock until then
had little experience because no pilot operations were previously initiated.  Project
implementation problems were however correctly identified and assessed by Bank supervision
missions. The recommendations to correct these problems were the scaling down of the scope of
some of the activities. In some cases important innovations were proposed and implemented,
such as, improved efficiency of health services through private agents, the Pastoral Pilot
Program, the Improved E]xtension System, monitoring committees, and fund export reserves.
The Mid-Term Mission helped to speed up the execution of essential project activities whose
start-up had been delayed.
9.    The Borrower commitment to instituting the reforms was effective throughout
implementation, apart from rangeland policy formulation. There were weaknesses in the
Borrower's capacity to plan and to coordinate, in the monitoring and evaluation of activities, and
in the daily management of the project, which was excessively centralized.
10.   Project Outcome. The Ministry of Livestock now possesses a rehabilitated and duly
equipped infrastructure, better trained staff, a cost recovery system with receipts paid into a
Livestock Fund, and a basic legislative framework on development of the private sector capable
of ensuring the sustainability of the bulk of the activities initiated by the project. The future of
private-sector activities vill depend in large measure on the Government's political resolve to
pursue implementation of the reforms that have been started and the ability of private operators
to find markets. The pragmatic approach adopted by the project has facilitated better preparation
of the herders for the possible execution, in the near future, of rangeland upgrading plans.
D. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
11.   Project Implemientation Experience, Sustainability and Future Operations. The
impact of the project on national production has been difficult to estimate. The livestock sector
consists of many different production systems, with significant differences in technical
coefficients, and it was very difficult to obtain a representative sample, which would have



- iv -
provided a reliable estimate of project impact on production. But Project impact on government
receipts and expenditure was positive. Assessment of project accomplishments, by component,
indicates that: (a) the general privatization process, herder organization, internal training and
pasture pilot project aspects generated very positive results; (b) the extension activities absorbed
into the ongoing Agricultural Services Project, PSAP, can be described as promising; and (c) the
impact of the measures to strengthen the central services of MEIHP was minor or unclear. The
general impact of the project is rated satisfactory.
12.    Keys Lessons Learned. The project demonstrated that, despite a difficult political,
economic and social situation, installing an appropriate institutional framework helped generate
private initiatives. In this connection, the privatization process as carried out in Chad can serve
as an example for other countries with similar features. The main lessons are that:
(a)  some degree of decentralization, through organization of the herders, was possible in a
highly centralized administrative setting;
(b)  integrating the project into the Ministry's structural organization proved to be a sound
strategy and hence there is the need to tailor the design of projects of this kind to local
capacities;
(c)  frequent changes in the project agency, lack of continuity in key posts, poor matching of
external training to the positions to be filled, and interference by the Ministry in project
management, can hamper project implementation;
(d) there is a need to design and start up the execution and impact of monitoring activities
very early in the project cycle and to ensure that the beneficiaries are capable of carrying
them out;
(e)  donor coordination and unity are essential and decisive to continued execution of
reforms initiated;
(f) Chad's potential for on-the-hoof exports became clearly apparent in light of the
cumulative impact of liberalization of marketing circuits, simplification of export
procedures and reduction in export taxes, and devaluation of the CFA franc, showing
that given the correct environment private traders can demonstrate dynamism and
professionalism.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CR. 1912-CD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    Livestock raising is a major economic activity involving more than 40 percent of Chad's
rural population. Its contribution is 45 percent of agricultural GDP and 35 percent of
merchandise exports. Livestock production is one of the few sectors with an immediate growth
potential, as the necessary livestock population, husbandry skills, markets and feed resources
exist to permit expansion.
2.    Previous Bank involvement in the sector had been through two operation (Table 2). The
First Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD, US$2.2 million) consisted mainly of studies, well
construction and repair, but because of the civil war its impact was smaller than initially planned.
Due to the civil war, the Second Livestock Project (Credit 783-CD, US$11.5 million) with a
more comprehensive approach, including delineation of pastoral units, animal health activities,
credit and Livestock Service staff training, was canceled before becoming effective. IDA's post-
war agricultural lending program only addressed the emergency situation in the cotton subsector
(Credit 1715-CD) and the urgent need for planning and aid coordination. The third National
Livestock Project was appraised in July 1987 with total project costs estimated at US$37.2
million, of which US$1 8.6 million was to be financed by an IDA credit, US$11.6 million by the
African Development Fund (ADF), US$1.3 million by the French agency Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC), US$1.8 million by the Netherlands agency Directorate General for
International Cooperation (DGIS), US$1.5 million by MAGAVET (Magasin General
d'Approvisionnement en Produits et Mat6riels Wterinaires), US$1.0 million by the Government,
and US$1.4 million by t]he producers. At time of closing of the credit US$14.6 million had been
disbursed from the IDA credit representing 78.4 percent of the SAR target.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The major objectives of this project were to increase national livestock production,
producer incomes, and Government revenue on a sustainable basis. These objectives were to be
achieved by improving the policy and institutional framework of the livestock sector in input
delivery, extension, marketing and export, and in improving rangeland utilization and resource
management.



-2 -
4.    Policy Component. The policy reforms aimed to:
(a)  increase the degree of cost recovery for preventive and curative animal health services
rendered by the public sector;
(b) liberalize and privatize the import and distribution of livestock inputs and  most
veterinary services;
(c)  reform the livestock export circuits and liberalize marketing and exports of livestock on
hoof, by abolishing the export quota system and SOTERA's control and monopoly
functions, and by simplifying the fiscal and administrative regulations affecting livestock
marketing;
(d)  stabilize staff recruitment by the Ministry of Livestock and Pastoral Water Supply
(MEHP) and improve staff efficiency; and
(e) define appropriate land tenure and pastoral water management policies to achieve long-
term resource conservation.
5.    Development Component. Project investments were aimed at strengthening sectoral
institutions and providing them with the necessary infrastructure and operating resources. The
component included activities to:
(a) create and strengthen livestock producer groups to play an expanded role in basic animal
health care, water and resource management and the rehabilitation of approximately 100
water points;
(b) improve input distribution and meat export by:  (i) strengthening MAGAVET's
wholesale functions, increasing its working capital and expanding its regional network;
(ii) creating a line of credit to assist about 40 veterinarians and/or livestock technicians
in taking up private retail distribution and clinical animal health services, and private
traders in exporting meat or meat by-products;
(c) strengthen the Farcha Laboratory to carry out producer-oriented research on rangeland
conservation, integrate livestock into the farming system and the economics of disease
control methods;
(d)  introduce efficient extension methods in the Livestock Service and retrain its staff,
rehabilitate MEHP field facilities and provide them with basic veterinary and extension
equipment and appropriate transportation; and
(e)  strengthen MEHP's planning, coordination, project monitoring and water development
capability, and build and equip an additional office for MEHP in N'Djamena.



- 3 -
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
6.    The project was integrated into and implemented within the Ministry of Livestock
(MEHP). The project had a difficult start during a period when Chad was beset by serious
military and socio-political events (para. 32). Project implementation performance, however,
improved after the Mid-Term Review and progress was made in achieving most of the project
objectives, with varying degrees of success. The project closing date was extended for one year.
Major achievements included implementation of a legislative and regulatory framework
governing the veterinary profession (para. 4), renovation of the infrastructure for field services,
setting up of pastoral groups, and development of the private sector. Though export performance
and other quantitative indicators shows that the project had a significant impact on production,
the lack of data has made it difficcult to measure the exact impact on production and incomes.
Policy Components
7.    Cost Recovery. A cost recovery system was instituted for services provided by the
livestock agencies, previously free of charge. A Livestock Fund was set up which made it
possible to absorb part of the project operating costs, 10 percent in 1992, then 20 percent until
the end of the project (para. 47 ii).
8.    Import and Distribution of Veterinary Drugs. By liberalizing and privatizing the
import and distribution of veterinary drugs, the project improved the delivery to herders. The
monopoly held by the state corporation MAGAVET was abolished, and the import and
wholesale distribution of veterinary drugs are now handled by four private companies. In the
privatization of veterinary medicine, the objectives were achieved by refocusing the livestock
agencies toward their oversight functions and of obtaining, through private enterprise, better
livestock health coverage and a reduction in the cost to the government of these activities. The
legislative framework governing the privatization of veterinary medicine was established. The
"health mandate" principle was accepted (the Government has accepted that qualified agents
took leave without pay and participate in the vaccination campaign on a contractual basis) and
the operation implemented, through the Rinderpest/CBPP campaigns. This represents one of the
major accomplishments of the project (para. 17).
9.    Reform of Export Circuits. In order to improve livestock and animal product exports,
measures were taken with respect to liberalization, simplification of procedures and reduction of
taxes. The monopoly of '30TERA for the export of refrigerated meat, offal and by products and
on the inspection of exports of cattle on the hoof was abolished. Export procedures were
simplified and per-head export taxation reduced by 12 percent.
10.   Strengthen the AMrinistry of Livestock's Capacity While Stabilizing Its Workforce. This
was accomplished through the following set of measures: freezing recruitments in the civil
service and giving them incentives to move to the private sector, and upgrading human resources
by means of an appropria[te training program. The ratio of wage costs to total operating costs
improved from 90:10 to 60:40, regarded as optimum, by the end of the project. The internal
training activities represented a major project gain (para. 21). The external training activities
offered however were not effectively used (para. 23).



-4 -
11.   Land Tenure and Pastoral Water Management Policies.  The formulation of a
rangeland utilization policy, based on the transfer of land and water rights to the herders, did not
occur. The project adopted a pragmatic approach by relying on the creation of pasture wells to
initiate the formation of pastoral interest groups (GIPs), later strengthened by extension activities
(para. 13). Thus, the experience gained by the project in the pastoral organization zone (ZOP)
should gradually enable the transfer of responsibility for the operation and maintenance of water
points to the pastoral associations and maintenance work to private artisans that could serve as
the basis for policy formulation in the future.
Investment Components
12.   Producers Groups. The pastoral associations component comprised: (i) setting up
herder groups and training their members; (ii) creating Chadian expertise in the areas of social
and pastoral organization, and (iii) rehabilitating about 100 water points and transferring them to
the herder groups.
13.   The idea behind setting up and providing outreach services to herder groups (GIPs) was
that they would assume responsibility for such livestock activities as basic veterinary care,
procurement of veterinary inputs and drugs, and natural resource management. Of the scheduled
300 GIP, 265 were set up, representing nearly 8,000 members and with about 200,000 animals.
The activities carried out under the GIPs system contributed to upgrading animal health, and the
GIP today provide an ideal framework for extension activities. The procedure for legal
recognition of GIP has been put in place.
14.   The general purpose of the rangeland management component was to foster rational
utilization of natural resources (grazing land, water points). It was planned to test these activities
in the Pastoral Organization Zone (ZOP), then extend them to the whole of the country. This
policy would lead to the transfer of wells to the GIP and over time to the drafting of a pastoral
code. This component only partially met its objectives. The activities were started very late and
were limited to a wells program (under which a total of 78 wells were transferred to GIP) plus a
few improvement works around these wells. Rangeland resources management began in the last
two years of project implementation, with the installation of a Pastoral Pilot Program (PPP); the
latter posted very encouraging results and will be continued as part of the follow up project
PSAP.
15.   Input Distribution, Clinical Health Services and Meat Export. The objective of
liberalization and privatization of the import and distribution of veterinary drugs was achieved.
The Government abolished MAGAVET's drug import monopoly. The performance of the
private companies shows that the operation was a positive move: 283 million FCFA of imports
of veterinary drugs in 1995 compared with 86 million FCFA for MAGAVET in 1988. The
operation was more difficult to evaluate at the distribution level, since the project lacked data
that could confirm better availability of the drugs to the herders (para. 28).
16.   The privatization of veterinary services resulted in better coverage of livestock health
delivery system and a 60 percent reduction in associated costs.
17.   Vaccination against rinderpest (RP) and bovine contagious pleuro-pneumonia (BCPP)
was formerly performed entirely by the Government and was done inefficiently. From 1994



- 5 -
onward, private veterinarians have been carrying out compulsory vaccinations with the
institution of the health mandate and financial contributions from herders. The performance of
the private operators was superior to that of the government agents in all fields: execution of the
campaign (executed/targeted: 80 percent private compared with 30 percent public; head
vaccinated per team: 100,000 private compared with 30,000 public; duration of the campaign: 4
months private compared with 6 months public), serological results (>70 percent positive for the
private compared with 50 percent positive with public), and cost (-34 percent compared with
public). Owing to its innovative nature and its results, the operation represented a very important
contribution. Based on these results, the "Health mandate" principle has been introduced
successfully in other Sahelian countries.
18.   The volume of exports on the hoof has posted a steady increase and tripled from 43,542
head in 1988 to 133,178; in 1995, owing in large part to the devaluation of the CFA franc in
1994. These commercial operations continue to be largely dominated by the informal sector.
Meat exports increased substantially and did not progress as much as expected from 79 tons in
1988 to 972 tons in 1995, since the support activities especially the line of credit, were launched
very late in the project.
19.   Farcha Laboraliory. This component only partially met project expectations. The
Farcha laboratory, which continues to be Chad's main livestock research and development tool,
had difficulty in going beyond the strict framework of its research responsibilities. In response
to this finding, during the Mid-Term Review, a new agency, the Pre-Extension Unit (CEPREVU)
was set up to coordinate research and extension. It did not play the role expected of it. The
purpose of identifying the basic parameters of the main production systems at the national level,
as the basis for formulating livestock development policy, was not achieved.
20.   Extension MetJiods and Staff Retraining.  The human resources training and
management component satisfied project objectives as stated in the SAR.
21.   The internal training program was particularly successful. The team installed displayed
dynamism and an abiliity to meet the needs of the various project components (pastoral
associations, assistance to private operators, Improved Extension System (IES), applied research,
and field services). Accomplishments under the program included nearly 300 refresher training
sessions for field staff; 2,000 man-days of IES training and 5,400 man-days of training in other
topics developed by the project; the design of a journal for field agents, and the production of
reference teaching material.
22.   The supervision missions identified the weakness of the project's extension system. In
1992 an extension commnittee was set up, a test zone was identified, and the training and visit
system was introduced in a form tailored to the specific context of herding in Chad, known as
the Improved Extension System (IES). Seven extension messages were disseminated under the
project, with satisfactory participation rates (averaging 75 percent) but widely varying adoption
rates ( ranging from 25 to 85 percent, according to topic). Overall, the objective was achieved,
and at the end of the project, the IES was taken over by the PSAP and extended to the whole of
the country.
23.   Under the component's external training program, procedures were developed in 1992
for sending candidates for training and a directory of external training agencies was prepared in
January 1996. The results of the external training component are less clear-cut since they were



-6 -
not always rated by reference to the real needs of the project. It managed to provide a total of
only 125 man-months of external training (against a scheduled 1,321).
24.   Some activities were started to improve human resources management. A data base was
established to list the skills available at the Ministry of Livestock but it covered only 55 percent
of professional staff and due to this limitation it was not used. The procedures for recruiting
extension agents were improved.
25.   Strengthening the Ministry's field services in terms of health inspection, outreach (para.
13) and extension (para. 22), was achieved in part through the construction or rehabilitation and
equipping of herding infrastructures (para. 26) and the training of field agents (para. 21).
26.   Refrigeration equipment for the vaccination campaigns, small veterinary equipment and
materials, vehicles, and office furniture and equipment were purchased. At the end of the
project, construction and rehabilitation of 60 buildings in the veterinary sectors and stations of
the Sahel Zone were being completed. The renovation and construction in 45 sectors and
stations of the Soudan Zone started in October 1996.
27.   Strengthening the Ministry of Livestock Central Services. This was to be achieved
through the following measures: (i) strengthening of the Administration and Finance services;
(ii) setting up of an office for cost recovery of fee-based services to be used to replenish the
Livestock Funds (para. 7); (iii) actions to reduce turnover and offer refresher training to the
Ministry's staff (para. 20); and (iv) construction of the headquarters building and procurement of
vehicles.
28.   The objectives of the investment components were achieved, with the exception of the
monitoring/evaluation function, which was not very efficient. In 1994 the M & E System was
revised. At the end of the project, only 2 surveys were fully completed (GIP and Extension).
Veterinary drugs distribution survey has been carried out but not analyzed.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Borrower's Control
29.   Financing Arrangements. The lack of effective coordination in setting up the various
financing arrangements did not facilitate project start-up. While the IDA andl FAC contributions
were put in place quickly, setting up the ADF and Dutch Cooperation contributions suffered
delays. These delays had repercussions on implementation of the field services strengthening
and rangeland research components.
30.   Coordination Among Donors. The lack of a common policy among the donors was
evident especially in the area of pastoral water supply. Coordination was good in all other
respects and was particularly useful in the case of monitoring of the privatization process.
31.   Economic Environment. From project start-up to 1994, the international economic
situation was unfavorable to the export of Chad livestock products. From 1994 onward, Chad's
livestock exports were revitalized under the combined impact of the devaluation of the CFA



- 7 -
franc, the abolition of the European meat subsidy, the appearance of bovine spongiform
encephalitis in Europe and the reduction in export taxes.
32.    Socio-political Difflculties. During the project implementation period Chad was again
beset by serious military and socio-political events. These events had severe repercussions on
the country's entire political, economic and social life and also on execution of the project. The
ensuing situation of insecurity was the major limiting factor on the project's field activities. It
also represented a severe constraint on private initiative.
Factors Generally Subject to the Borrower's Control
33.    Assistance of other Government services to the Livestock Ministry in drafting and
enacting regulations, legal recognition of the GIP, loan management and the awarding of
contracts was not always easily obtained. This led to delays or shortcomings not always
attributable only to prcject management. The Government's counterpart contribution to project
financing however was regular.
34.    The various reorganizations of the Livestock Ministry that took place after project start-
up had varying impacts on the project's internal organization and its implementation. There
were some confusion developed between the project's operational structure and the organigram
of the Ministry. The changes in responsible officials hampered smooth execution of the project.
Factors Generally Siubject to Implementing Agency's Control
35.    The project management unit, which suffered from inadequate human and organizational
resources, did not give sufficient operational autonomy to the project components. There were
recurrent delays regarding procurement in the Administration. These delays, however, did not
have a major impact on field activities (animal health, pastoral group formation, etc.), which
were implemented in the earlier phases of the project.
36.    The staff dealing with planning and policy lacked experience and training in the
performance of certain tasks in new or specialist fields such as herder organization, rangeland
resources management, privatization, research and development, extension, project
monitoring/evaluation, and the conduct of surveys and studies. Insufficient advantage was taken
of the external training possibilities offered by the project.
37.    Problems noted in the technical assistance area included difficulty on the part of certain
staff in fitting into the agencies to which they had been assigned; utilization of this staff in ways
contrary to the assignment terms of reference; insufficiently precise definition of the position of
project coordinator; inadequate number of medium- or long-term technical assistants in the areas
of project coordination and management, privatization, reorganization of field services, research
and development and pastoral development, and failure to take proper advantage of the project
resources for the recruitment of short-term consultants.



- 8 -
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.    Chad has adopted a basic legislative framework, in the livestock area, conducive to
development of the private sector. While the "Health Mandate" operation represents a genuine
success, it remains fragile. To ensure its sustainability, continued Government support for the
liberalization effort is necessary to provide the necessary regulatory framework, monitoring of
credit operations, and training for the private agents.  Several project components can be
expected to be sustained after project completion. They are: (i) the animal health delivery
system (pharmaceutical imports, input distribution and field operation), whiclh is now in large
part entrusted to private operators, who have shown that these operations are profitable; and (ii)
the livestock export trade, which has now entered new markets. For sustainability, further
strengthening is required for the extension and natural resource management components, which
should be forthcoming since they are now integrated into the National Ag:ricultural Service
Project (PSAP).
39.    The Ministry of Livestock now  possesses a rehabilitated and properly equipped
infrastructure, a better trained staff, and a system of cost recovery with receipts deposited into a
Livestock Fund. The use made of this Fund will be decisive for the durability of the activities
initiated by the project.
40.    The sustainability of the activities of private veterinarians is limited since the mandated
vaccinations, which are by their nature temporary and today account for nearly 95 percent of
their turnover. The mandate of these private veterinarians can easily be extended to other
activities (consultation, training, extension and investigation). They could be contracted to work
in the case of certain projects such as, for example, those financed by FAC (the ASETO Project)
and, in the near future, the European Union. The PSAP should give consideration to a similar
approach. Government role in supportting these private-sector commercial activities, should be
in the following areas: tax relief, combating of fraud, control of compliance with regulations,
access to credit, obtaining of visas, air freight agreements, and improvement of abattoir services.
41.    The project contributed to the establishment of a pastoral organization policy through
training, extension and support services to GIP, a necessary precondition for the formulation of a
more comprehensive rangeland management policy. The pragmatic approach adopted by the
project facilitated better preparation of the herders for the possible implementation, in the near
future, of rangeland upgrading plans recommended during the Bank's supervision missions. The
strategy adopted by the PSAP with respect to support for pastoral livestock will be decisive to
the sustainability of the activities initiated by the project (especially support for the GIP and the
PPP).
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
42.    With respect to project identification and appraisal, the Bank showed   good
understanding of Chad's livestock development potential and constraints and the priority-ranking
of the activities to be carried out. Bank performance in preparation and appraisal was therefore
satisfactory. It somewhat overestimated, however, Chad's capacity to implement the project,
especially in new fields such as privatization and rangeland management. The risk this
represented was all the greater in that at start-up the project lacked a sound reference base on the



- 9 -
sector as well as proven skills on the part of the staff that were expected to implement it. The
technical assistance furnished and the training program implemented was not enough to fill these
gaps.
43.    Though the project was overall fairly well supervised, the frequency of missions was
insufficient between 1991 and 1995. However, during these first years, missions included the
necessary expertise in terms of numbers and skills. During the latter years of the project,
missions were only limited to the project officer, an agricultural economist. As a result, the
missions, while particularly rigorous and effective in monitoring the policy component, showed
weaknesses in monitoring certain aspects of livestock for which local expertise is lacking,
especially the areas of adaptive research and rangeland and natural resources management
policies. The project implementation problems were in general correctly identified and assessed.
The recommendations in this matter were to the point and in some cases innovative (health
mandate, line of credit., CEPREVU, IES).
44.   Cooperation with the other cofinancing entities did not pose any particular problem other
than the lack of coordination in pastoral water supply. Cohesion among donors proved to be
particularly strong, and necessary, in monitoring the liberalization and privatization reforms.
The Mid-Term Review mission served to refocus the project activities on the objectives as
originally identified, to revitalize priority-rated operations and to speed up the execution of
essential project activities whose start-up had been delayed.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
45.   The Borrower showed genuine commitment to instituting the reforms pertaining to
stabilization of staff in the Ministry of Livestock, liberalization of the import and distribution of
veterinary drugs and the export of livestock and meat, and privatization of veterinary medicine.
Borrower has satisfactorily participated to project preparation all the way through
implementation This represented a notable performance on the part of the Borrower in light of
Chad's political and economic situation at project start-up.
46.   This political will was less resolute in the case of implementation of the accompanying
measures necessary to support these reforms. The pastoral code was never adopted and private
exercise of the veterinary profession was hindered, in the field, by the opposition of certain staff
to the privatization process. There were also weaknesses in the Borrower's capacity to plan and
to coordinate, in the monitoring and evaluation of activities, and in the daily management of the
project, which was excessively centralized.
H. PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
47.    The initial appraisal report had stressed two major points: (i) the impact of the project
on national production as a result of the activities and reforms to be implemented under it; and
(ii) its impact on government receipts and expenditures consequent on the better balance between
salary and recurrent costs:



- 10-
(a)    Project justification could not be determined by calculating the rate of economic
return. The approach taken in the ICR was to analyze several supplementary
production objectives. An attempt to determine incremental production based on
data collected by the mission did not succeed. In too many cases data were
lacking, insufficiently precise or even contradictory from one source to another.
(b)    The impact on government receipts and expenditures, easier to assess, was
positive. At the end of the project, salary expenditure was in better balance with
the Ministry of Livestock's operating budget; receipts paid into the Livestock
Fund had reached a cumulative total of nearly CFAF 1 billion, and export taxes
had yielded the Finance Ministry significant revenue (CFAF933 million in
customs duties in 1994).
48.   Assessment of project accomplishments, by component. This assessment, difficult to put
in figures, indicates that: (a) the general privatization process, herder organization, internal
training and the pilot pastoral program can be rated as very positive; (b) the extension activities,
now absorbed into the PSAP, can be described as promising; (c) the impact of the measures to
strengthen the Central Services of the Ministry (in terms of administratilve and financial
management capacity, sectoral analysis and livestock development policy, institution of a system
of monitoring/evaluation of livestock activities) can be rated as minor or unclear; and
(d) regarding pastoral development, a major accomplishment of the project was the setting up of
the GIP, even though the objective was not achieved in the case of participatory management of
rangeland resources. While this participatory management had been rightly perceived as
essential, its implementation was difficult owing to its novel nature and to lowv local capacity.
Since then, experience with participatory development activities has accumulated within the
region, and major progress has been accomplished in the area of pastoral ecology of the arid and
semi-arid zones.
49.   The general impact of the project can be rated as satisfactory for the following reasons:
(a) With respect to policy, Chad now possesses a legislative and regulatory framework
governing the veterinary profession, in both the public and private sectors. Structures
have been put in place to ensure consultation and although these committees continue to
be largely dominated by public agencies, they are instruments available to herders who
have to make them operational.
(b) In terms of physical assets, field services infrastructure has been renovated and
equipped, throughout the country, with cold storage facilities and diagnostic materials.
The construction of the headquarters at N'Djamena has made it possible to bring the
central management and operational agencies under one roof. Concerning the GIP, 78
wells have been built for them (with 42 more to come soon) and agreements were
reached with the beneficiaries to share the costs in the maintenance of the wells and in
taking environmental protection measures.
(c) On the technical side, the project accomplished major tasks with respect to setting up of
the herder groups and in-country training of field agents.  It also contributed to
introduction of the PSAP in the livestock sector, particularly in regard to supervisory
services to the GIP (training of auxiliaries) and the improved extension system (IES).
Through the "health mandate" operation the project resulted in improved rinderpest



- 1i -
vaccination coverage preventing the country from dramatic losses caused by outbreaks
in the region. It has also led to the setting up of a pilot operation (PPP) cited as a best
practice for participatory rangeland resources management. This will provide a basis for
the preparation of a more comprehensive, nationwide program.
(d)  At the institutional level, the project highlighted the weakness of the Ministry of
Livestock in terms of planning, and monitoring/evaluation of its operations. It also
demonstrated the ability of the herder groups to organize themselves and to manage their
resources.
50.    On social and environmental aspects and private-sector development the project: helped
upgrade the social conditions of the farmer-herders through the setting up of Pastoral Interest
Groups (GIP) and the related organizational, training, extension and investment activities. It also
fostered increased attention to environmental considerations, by promoting the setting up of: (i)
a data base for PEP and watering points; (ii) an information network to monitor rangelands
(ROPANAT); (iii) a pilot pastoral program (PPP), with the resulting regeneration of rangeland
resources; (iv) the execution of certain improvement activities (firebreaks, nurseries); and (v)
greater awareness among agents and herders of environmental hazards (woodcutting,
overgrazing, etc.) and of the potential for rangeland protection (windbreaks) and regeneration
(PPP, pastoral resources management). The project also promoted development of the private
sector, in two ways: (i) through the privatization of veterinary medicine; this process is now
solidly underway and is helping to upgrade the herders' living conditions through improved
availability--and quality--of the care and advice provided; and (ii) through the herders' capacity
to organize themselves and take over responsibility for public-sector activities.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
51     A number of activities are being continued under the PSAP, such as consolidation of the
work started by the G][P, and continuation of the auxiliary and extension agent refresher training
programs, particularly in aspects of pastoral resources management, which have so far been
limited to a few test zones as part of a pilot operation (PPP). Activities that need follow-up and
Government continued support include the liberalization reforms, in the areas of (i) development
of private veterinary medicine, observance of regulations, support for and control of "health
mandate" activities, monitoring of credit operations, and further training of private agents;
(ii) livestock product marketing; and (iii) judicious expansion of the veterinary drug import and
distribution companies; These would be followed up under the PSAP.
52.   In light of the current situation and the experience gained in implementing the project, a
number of factors would need to be taken into account in future livestock operations: (a) the
Ministry's capacity to implement, monitor and evaluate sectoral development operations;
(b) clarification of the respective roles of the public and private sectors, and definition of the
principles governing collaboration between them for development of the livestock sector.In order
to start any future project it would be important to have: It would also be essential to have an
improved sectoral analysis, with updating of the sectoral data base (herd numbers, productivity
of the main production systems, marketing circuits, national production) and better factoring of
transhumant herding and drought into the planning activity of the Livestock Ministry;



- 12 -
53.   Rangeland Resources Management Program. Such a program could be envisaged
provided the following prior measures were taken: (i) analysis of the impact of the previous
projects; (ii) consolidation of the liberalization reforms and the herder organization measures;
and (iii) execution of studies and surveys to firm up the main lines of sectoral policy. The
natural resources management (NRM) dimension could be taken into account in a possible PSAP
support program. This also assumes the possession, at the end of the PPP, of adequate data to be
able to formulate an operational strategy for rangeland resources management.
J. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
54.    The project demonstrated that, despite a difficult political, economic and social situation,
installing an appropriate institutional framework helped generate private initiatives. In this
connection, the privatization process as carried out in Chad can serve as an example for other
countries with similar features. The main lessons are that:
(a)  some degree of decentralization, through organization of the herders, was possible in a
highly centralized administrative setting;
(b)  integrating the project into the Ministry's structural organization proved to be a sound
strategy and hence there is the need to tailor the design of projects of this kind to local
capacities;
(c)  frequent changes in the project agency, lack of continuity in key posts, poor matching of
external training to the positions to be filled, and interference by the Ministry in project
management, can hamper project implementation;
(d) there is a need to design and start up the execution and impact of monitoring activities
very early in the project cycle and to ensure that the beneficiaries are capable of carrying
them out;
(e)  donor coordination and unity are essential and decisive to continued execution of
reforms initiated;
(f)  Chad's potential for on-the-hoof exports became clearly apparent in light of the
cumulative impact of liberalization of marketing circuits, simplification of export
procedures and reduction in export taxes, and devaluation of the CFA franc, showing
that given the correct environment private traders can demonstrate dynamism and
professionalism.



- 13 -
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial        Partial        Neeidble        Not applicable
FT)           (777                                 (V
Macro Policies                                      fl
Sector Policies                     Ea               O                                  III
Financial Objectives                 O               II               El                 0
Institutional Development            O                                EE
Physical Objectives                 E]                                E                 El
Poverty Reduction                   fl                                El                El
Gender Issues                       Dl               E                El
Other Social Objectives             E                 1               E                 E
Environmental Objectives             0                                El                 El
Public Sector Management                                              E
Private Sector Development                           El               El                E
Other (specify)                     El               El               El
B. Proiect Sustainability               Likelv                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
___j (1/)                 (/)                        (a/)      I
____                                                               El    El



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (cont'd)
Hi2hlv
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (/)                       (/)      I
Identification                     I                                                 La
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                           O                      E
Supervision                        El                                                El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactorv   Satisfactory     Deficient
(V)            (/)             (/)
Preparation                                 L              E
Implementation                              O
Covenant Compliance                          OI
Operation (if applicable)                    O              L              [J
Highlv                                         Hiehlv
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv    unsatisfactory
(LI            (L)                                LI) (/)   I
z~~~~ m aEO



- 15 -
7able 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
LoanCreditTitle              Purpose             Year of Approval              Status
Preceding Operations
1. Cr. 309-CD           Livestock Sec.Dev.                1972                  Completed
2. Cr. 783-CD           Livestock Sec.Dev.II              1978                   Canceled
3. Cr. 1775-CD          Agricultural                      1987                  Completed
Rehabilitation
Following operations
1. Cr. 26850-CD         Agricultural and Pastoral         1995                   Ongoing
Services
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                        June 1986                June 1986
Preparation                                          October 1986            November 1986
Appraisal                                            January 1987              July 1987
Negotiations                                           July 1987           January 12-15, 1988
Letter of Development Policy (ilf applicable)             -                 January 14, 1988
Board Presentation                                  December 1987             May 31, 1988
Signing                                              January 1988             July 5, 1988
Effectiveness                                          July 1988            January 27, 1989
Midterm review (if applicable)                                               April-May 1993
Project Completion                                   June 30, 1995            June 30, 1996
Loan Closing                                       December31, 1995        December31, 19



- 16 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements -- Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Year       Appraisal Estimate      Actual Disbursements    Cumulative Actual as % of
Cumulative               Cumulative            Cumulative Estimate
FY 88             1.7                       0.0                       0.0
FY 89             4.3                       1.9                      44.18
FY 90             7.6                       4.0                      52.63
FY 91             11.5                      6.3                      54.78
FY 92             14.7                      9.0                      61.22
FY 93             17.1                     11.0                      64.70
FY 94             18.6                     12.2                      65.59
FY 95             18.6                     13.7                      73.65
FY 96             18.6                     14.3                      76.88
FY 97             18.6                     14.6                      78.49
Date offinal disbursement: June 10, 1997. Undisbursed balance: SRD 2.8 million (US$4.0 million)



- 17 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementatfon
Indicators                              Estlmated           Actual
Key Indicators in DCA: Schedule 4
POLICY COMPONENT
Animal Health Services
- Liberalization of distribution of veterinary drugs           December 1990        April 1988
- Liberalizationof imports/distributionof veterinary drugs     December 1990      December 1990
- Annual sales of veterinary drugs (CFAF)                           278            283 (in 1995)
- Private veterinarians established                                  40            27 (in 1996)
- Average number of animals ivaccinatedby each private veterinarian  5,000           33,000
(Rinderpest)
Export of Livestock Products
- Liberalizationof livestock products exports                        na             April 1988
- Establishment of a line of credit to fund meat exports             na            January 1995
- Annual additional meat exports funded by the line of credit (tons)  1,000            na
DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
PastoralAssociation (PA) ZDevelopment
- Number of PA created                                              450                265
- Number of auxiliaries trained                                     300                479
- Number of wells rehabilitated                                     100                78a/
- Management of pilot pastoral perimeters                            na                 3
Extension Services
- Number of Districts covered                                        6                  2
- Number of contact groups (CG)                                      na               1,110
- Number of extension themes                                         na                 7
- Numbers of pastoralists in CG                                      na              24,000
Adoption Rates Of Extension Themes
- Animal health                                                      na              20-85%
- Animal production                                                  na              12-45%
a' plus 42 under execution



- 18 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators were established at appraisal or subsequently
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No specific study was planned in the appraisal report
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)     Actual/LatestEsdmate(US$M)
Item                   Local  1 Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign    Total
Costs  I Costs                Costs     Costs
Civil Works                            5.70        -        5.70      5.79      8.30     14.09
Vehicle and Equipment                  0.50       8.20      8.70      2.85      7.10     9.95
Technical Assistance                     -        5.40      5.40      0.87      5.94     6.81
Training and Studies                     -        2.70      2.70      1.23      0.25      1.48
Drugs                                    -        3.90      3.90      1.54       -       1.54
Operating Costs                          -       8.10       8.10      9.07       -       9.07
Subloans                                 -       2.00      2.00        -        1.64     1.64
PPF                                      -        0.70      0.70      0.08       -         -
Total Project Cost                     6.20      31.00     37.20     21.43     23.30    44.73



- 19 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual/LatestEstimate(US$   ..
Source             Local   |  Foreign  |  Total          Local   |  Foreign        Total
Costs        Costs                    Costs        Costs
IDA                        6.50         12.10        18.60       11.15         3.35        14.50
AfBD (ADF)                 2.80          8.80        11.60        9.02        17.02       26.04a/
FAC                        0.20          1.10        1.30          -           1.33        1.33w
DGIS                      10.20          1.60        1.80         0.20         1.60        1.80
Domestic contribution      2.40          1.50        3.90         1.06          -          1.06
(a) MAGAVET               0.50          1.00        1.50         nd           nd           nd
(b) Government            1.00           -          1.00         nd           nd           nd
(c) Producers             0.90         0.50         1.40         nd           nd           nd
TOTAL                     12.10        25.10       37.20        21.43        23.30        44.73
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated in the SAR or at completion because of the paucity of data on the
sector and the institution building nature of the product.
a/ estimates



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit  Covenant Present  Original                    Description of                          Comments
Agreemt   type    status  fulfillment                    covenant
Section                       date
3.06 (a)     2        C                Open/maintaina bank account in the name of MEHP            None
(Livestock Funds) and deposit therin, the revenues
from MEHP's charges for livestock related services
30.3 (b)     4        C                Use the funds in said account to cover MEHP's non          None
salary expenditures
3.04                  C      07/01/88  Magavet to rationalize its distributionsystem and sell  Magavet was privatized in 1994
veterinary products at competitive prices taking into
account their real costs
3.05 (a)     6       CP                Prepare pastoral land use policy, including transfer of  Due to the complexities of issues
use of water points and range lands to pastoral  involved, implementationhas been
associations.                                 carried out carefully through a
pilot operation in selected villages
using a Holistic Resource
Management model
3.05 (b)     6       CD      12/01/90  Take necessary actions to apply said policy                None
3.06 (a)    12        C                Permit MEHP's livestock agents to provide animal           None
health care privately including the possibility to take up
to 2 years of leave without pay
3 .06 (b)   12        C                Maintain during the first 5 years of the project, the      None
number of MEPH's staff at the level of January 1, 1991
3.07 (a)    12       CD      01/01/91  Set eligibility criteria for the selection of companies    None
which will import veterinary drugs
3.07 (b)    11       CD      01/01/91  Abolish Magavet's monopoly on imports of veterinary        None
drugs
3.08 (a)    12        C                Establish a pastoral organizationunit within the MEHP      None
to provide technical/organizationalassistance in the
establishmentof the pastoral organizations
3.08 (b)    12       NC                Employ a livestock specialist to head said unit  Head of the unit was not a
technical specialist
3.09         5        C                Recruitment of a Project Coordinator to assist the         None
Director General of the MEHP
3.10 (a)     3       CD                Establish a committee chaired by the Director General      None
of the MEHP to supervise the credit fund provided by
the project



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Secion  Covenant Present  Original                        Description of                            Comments
type     status  fulfillt ent                    covenant
date
3.10 (b)      3        CD                Relend the proceeds of the credit fund to a commercial  A NGO was appointed to manage
bank under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered   the line of credit.
into between the Borrower and said commercialbank
4.01 (a)      1        C                 Borrower to maintain or cause to be maintained records        None
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the project
4.01 (b)      1        CD                Annuals audits of project's records and accounts, by  Audit 1996 was not received on
independent auditors, transmission of audits reports no  June 30, 1997
later than six months after the end of each FY
4.02          2        CD                Adjust annually the charges applicable to non-                None
compulsory vaccinations and clinical interventionsmade
by the MEHP, to meet the full costs of these
interventions
4.03         11        C                 Maintain Government's budgetary allocation to                 None
MEHP's operating expenditure at least at the level of
FCFA 40 million per year
4.04          2        CD      05/01/90  Establish a mechanism for the recovery of recurrent cost Cost recovery was introduced in
of compulsory vaccinations                       94 at CFAF 25 per vaccine, and
was increased by CFAF 25 each
following year
Covenant Types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                               8. =  Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds         11. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
4. =  Counterpart fuinding                                resource allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the prciject or executing  12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                              regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                      13. =  Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C   = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP  = complied with partially
NC  = not complied with
NYD = not yet due



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title               Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of                            Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks          US$('000)
Preparation to Appraisal                  26.80             52.30
Appraisal                                 35.50             78.80
Negotiations through Board Approval       11.80             29.20
Supervision                               148.30           439.60
Completion                                 5.00             1.90
TOTAL                                     227.40           601.90



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources -- Missions
Stage of Project   Month/   Number   Days in   Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-    Types of
Cycle         Year        of       Field    Staff Skills    tation       ment       Problems
Persons            Represented      Status     Objectives
Through Appraisal     87        nd        nd
Appraisal through    87/88      nd        nd
Board Approval              .
Supervision 1        11/88       2         8          L             2            2          C-F-P
Supervision2         5/89        2         7          L             2            2           M
Supervision 3        12/89       4         10         E-L           2            2           M-P
Supervision4         3/90        2         2          E
SupervisionS         6/90        3         11         E-L           3            3
Supervision6         11/90       3         5         E-L            3            3           Po
Supervision7         4/91        2         12         E-L           2            2           T-1
Supervision8         2/92        3         15       E-L-Ex          2            2          M-T-2
Supervision 9        10/92       2         7         E-Ex           2            2           T-4
Mid Term Review      5/93        4         19      E-Ex-L-F         3            2        M-T-1-3-4
Supervision 10       4/94        2         6         E-Ex           2            2          M-F-3
Supervision 11       5/95        2         15        E-Ex           S            S           M4
Supervision 12       12/95       2         9          E-L                                  M-4-T-1
Supervision 13       4/96        2         6         E-Ex           S            S
Supervision 14       12/96       2         6         E-Ex
Completion/ICR       3/97        1        21           L            S            S
Key to Special Staff Skills:
E=Economist; Ex=Extension Specialist; F=Financial Analyst; L=Livestock Specialist;
Key to Types of Problems:
LC=Legal Covenant; M=Management; P=Procurement; Po=Political; F=Funding; I=Institutional;
T=Technical, I=Pastoral Development; 2=Extension; 3=Research; 4=Privatization



- 24 -
APPENDIX B
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CR. 1912-CD)
COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT



- 25 -
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL
Ref: ME/DG/NLP/97
A. COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I.    General Comments
The report repeate,dly highlights the positive aspects of the setting up of the herder
groups:
-     capacity of the GIPs to organize themselves, to manage their resources and to
take over activities for which the public sector was previously responsible;
-     strengthening of the health coverage of the herd;
-     increased demand for veterinary drugs;
-     developmenit of the private sector;
-     upgrading of social conditions.
Moreover, the setting up of herder groups using a "pragmatic approach" is deemed to be
one of the successes of the NLP, benefiting both the herders and the private sector and fulfilling
a "necessary precondition for the formulation of a more comprehensive rangeland management
policy" (page 28, para. 88)
It is pointed out, however, and this cannot be emphasized strongly enough, setting up the
herder groups, a major benefit of the NLP (page 34, para. 111 ), was feasible only thanks to close
supervision by mean of a supervisory assistance network able to provide the herders with
awareness-arousing, training and outreach and leadership services. It would be premature to
conclude that the herder organization phase has been completed. It is to be feared that the PSAP,
with its essentially "mass extension" approach, may ignore the producers' organizations
dimension, a dimension of fundamental importance in the process of development of the private
sector, of herd health coverage, of natural resources management and of representation on the
consultative entities.



- 26 -
It is accordingly important that due account be taken of the recommendation made by
Mr. Benor following a visit to the GIPs. He strongly advised that extension should be based on
the GIPs.
Regarding a future natural resources management project, great prudence needs to be
exercised with respect to the course of execution and results of the pastoral pilot perimeters.
The report does not appear (except through the PPPs) to accord the pastoral waterworks
program a decisive role in terms of participatory natural resources management. It would be a
pity to underestimate the capacity of groups that are beneficiaries of a well to revive old
agreements for water access and rangeland management.
2.    Specific Comments
*     Page 3, para. 10, second sentence. The project adopts a broad approach to the
start-up of rangeland management within the GIPs already set up (creation of the
wells is not awaited before initiating establishment of the GIPs).
*      Page 6, para. 29. It is not a matter of optimum utilization of technical assistance.
The point is rather that the technical assistance recruited by the NLP did not
possess the necessary profile (for example, the monitoring/evaluation system
was not installed by the technical assistant recruited for that purpose, the
extension system was not installed by the Coordinator, and so on).
Page 7, para. 33. For its part, the PSAP, as currently oriented, does not offer any
guarantee.
Page 7, para. 36. Attention is drawn to a lack of coordination in monitoring
project execution.  Only IDA, through its regular supervision missions,
monitored the project properly in all its phases, defining guidelines and
strategies, which sometimes conflict with each other from one supervision
mission to another.
Page 14, para. 18. The funds deriving from compulsory vaccinations are not
deposited into the Livestock Fund but into another account which operates under
the dual signature of the Minister of Livestock and the European Communities
Delegate.
Page 15, para. 25. The available financing of 500 million for continuation of the
operation derives from PARC II (300 million) and the BDT (200 million). IDA
is not participating.
Page 16, para. 29. Until 1994 the customs levy was 24.64 percent instead of
14.64 percent. It is necessary to distinguish between taxes and fees. Beginning
with the Finance Act of May 1994, the Fund receives only fees.
Page 18, para. 35. Same comments as for page 3, para. 10.



- 27 -
B. STUDIES PRODUCED BY THE PROJECT (subject of Annex 7)
It should be noted that the project did not produce any studies during the entire
implementation period. Short-term consultant missions did, however, take place in the following
fields:
-     Sociology: 2 support missions (COP, DOP and LRVZ);
-     Instructor training: COP support mission;
-     Operating accounts: SAPROVET support mission;
-     Agrostology: LTVZ support mission;
-     Monitoring/evaluation: DESP support mission;
-     Data processing: NLP management unit support mission;
-     Preparation of plant-life training maps: PPP support mission;
-     Performance evaluation of veterinary pharmacies: AOP support mission;
-     Training for veterinary agents who have set up in private practice: AOP support
mission;
-     Simplification of accounting procedures and management: NLP management
unit support mission;
-     Evaluationi of the activities of health task assignees: AOP support mission.



- 28 -
Republic of Chad
FARCHA VETERINARY AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
RESEARCH LABORATORY
P.O. Box 43, N'Djam6na
Ref.: 14.454/97 - N'Djamina, May 6, 1997
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(CR 1912-CD)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NOTE ON THE SUPPORTIVE RESEARCH COMPONENT



- 29 -
I.  DETERMINATION OF THE BASIC PARAMETERS OF THE MAJOR
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
Chad possesses three main climatic zones, each with its specific livestock system:
nomadic, transhumant and sedentary. Although the project is national in scope, this institution
did not possess the necessary human resources to develop research activities in the Saharan, the
Sahelian and the Sudanian zones. It was decided in favor of the Sahelian Zone, as the livestock
raising zone par excellence in Chad. The research done on the dynamics of cattle and sheep/goat
herds did indeed lead to the production of technical reference material on traditional herding.
These reports, followed by proposals for the design of development activities, were sent to the
Office of the National Directorate for the project. Some findings were transmitted to the
CEPREVU, which existed in name only and was not able to recover the results, including some
in extension (vaccination, treatment, feed, accommodation), by the Laboratory (validation).
We agree with the conclusions of the mission, which notes that the results produced
continue to be of very local utility for development in view of the other, sometimes sharply
contrasting, situations in 'Chad. The research activities focused exclusively on the Sahelian
Zone. The results of this work continue to be valid for that zone.
II.  ECOLOGICAL AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
The work on pastoral ecology and rangeland monitoring added substantially to our
knowledge of the problems associated with rangelands utilization, maintenance of animal
production and research on methods of integrating the different forms of agricultural production
(integration of farming and stockraising).
It is true the results of this research are for the most part of the "expertise" type; they
yield a return only in the medium and long term.
It nevertheless has to be recognized that these ecological and rangeland programs have
led to the production of at data base and of skills that can be turned to account in a future
livestock development program.
III. PRE-EXTENSION UNIT (CEPREVU)
Application of the results of this research by DOP and CEPREVU is indeed almost
nonexistent. This is due first to the lack of linkage between research and extension and second to
the newness, nature and limited resources of CEPREVU, which has appeared like a nebula
hovering between the Laboratory, the DOP and the NLP.
The CEPREVU was transferred in its entirety to the PSAP upon start-up in 1995.



- 30 -
IV. CONCLUSION
To conclude, two questions arise:
(a)   Is it possible to set up a national development program based on monitoring
limited to sedentary herds in Chad, where herding is 70 percent transhumant?
(b)    Should the Laboratory's purpose be changed, to concern itself with extension (to
the detriment of the DOP)?
The report ought to be more realistic with respect to these questions.



I, 14                   I'16'                    ,          ba 2b0                               22'          `TUNISIA
l , ~~~*N -                                                         --V a _
N.                                                    /       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBYA  FPIJULIC
ALGERIA                    OF EGYPT
-22 ',                                                                                                                         22'                /       ' - .
C   H   A   D                                                                                                    22.       NIGER
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                        -.                                                                         j
Livestock Service Infrastructure and                                                               'NJ,                              N                         5UDAN
Location Pastoral Pilot Area   J                                                                                                 NIG ERI AA
5~~~~~~~%          f~__'ENTRAL
Pilot area pastorial association                                                                                           C0MERGGN1 AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Sequence introduction pastoriol                                                                                '                         24"
20              associations.                                                                                                                                         20'
MAGAVET centers                    ;                                                                                         N.r
Livestock district headquarters   !                                                                                                  N
o     Livestock sector headquarters
*     Posts                             !
Livestock district boundaries    |
Livestock sector boundaries
Limits of agro-ecological zoses
1        Rivers                       |18t
Internstional boundaries                                                                                                                 |
F Ecy -L-r9e-u
-16-                                                                                                                                                         16P/   - 
.k-
/                       R
NI   ER       /                                  /       <      :      '~0ba                                                                                  16
|so~ >40  \tMO6S~4                                                                           A ,                   U  D  A  N
Solo    0  N GoA.   ,,. > ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~. D
l ~ ~ ~ ls ~\                                            Z~t   0Wrb  Floje                   Ade                S  U- Dm Aa   N
,   Korol LNnsaut\"  's\                    J'v roi   4Ioum
12'                                                                                           * .M-go                Go'-Beid=                                         12o
NI G    E  R  I A                                                                       AE ) *AMrdella  >ttN       KoT                                              2
\coGeIelogd'rf                                         -          Am Tinam
BONGOR T
yLgn  =pl           K      I =
j< \Gsgal  0;  *nom/tn90                                                                                                     4'eSS kgAHR    K1.1,6
v   *1!/  MOUNm  D<bo j;<     :D.-edii 
.oPo   anio       Bet'oM -*.  BO G       Moio
N.   /4'r'ot~Goun T'            4
B'                                                ,1                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 J0 60 00120 120 
.4                                                                                                              Y GNE~~~~~~~~~~~~B,.k.  IAIERS
DCAMEROON _. D sFdmvolS;eSryl ssrM _
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                          '.
12'                                            14'                                              22'                      22'                      24'
A                                                                                                                                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  0  ,









IMAGING
Report No.:          16833
Type:     ICR



