Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6912-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
April 22, 1988
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Operations Division
Thds document has a redtcted       and may be usod by        oly En the perforance of
|thdr offlidl duies  lbs contets may not odherw  be disclosed  Wodd B1k   dnion.



CURRENCIES
Currency Unit a CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 a CFAF 277
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
BDEAC     Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BIEP      Interministerial Bureau for Studies and Projects
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(Economic Cooperation Fund France)
DGIS      Dirqetorate General for Internationtl Cooperation
(The Netherlands)
EDF       European Development Fund
EEC       European Economic Community
ENATE     Ecole Nationale des Techniciens de l'Elevage
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GDS       Groupements de Defense Sanitaire
GTZ       Society of Technical Cooperation (W. Germany)
LOI       Letter of Intent
MAGAVET   Magasin General d'Approvisionnement en Produits et
Materiels Veterinaires
MEHP      Ministere de l'Elevage et de 1'Hydraulique Pastorale
ONHPV     Office National de l'Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise
PARC      Pan African Rinderpest Campaign
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SONAPA    Societe Nationale de Production Animale
SOTERA    Soci&te Tchadienne d'Elevage et Ressources Animales
TLU       Tropical Livestock Unit
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31



FO0  OFMCUL USE ONLY
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILV ....................    iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY *       ................................  v
INTRODUCTION * ******@@00*0 000000000000000000*00000000000 **o*    1
I0   BACKGROUND *      ..........................................  1
II.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR .0000000000000        ..................  3
III. THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR .       .............. ...................  3
A.  Role in the Economy       ...............................  3
B.  The Production System *       ..............................  4
C.  Marketing .........................................       5
D.  The Institutional Framework ......    .................   7
Ministry of Livestock and Pastoral Water Supply..       7
Training Institutes .....      ........................  8
General Distributor of Veterinary
Pharmaceuticals       8................................  8
The Water Bureau ...*.........* .................       8
National Office for Village and Pastoral Water...       9
Farcha Slaughterhouse ....*......................       9
Farcha Laboratory ......      .........................  9
National Animal Production Enterprise ..... ......    10
S.  External Financing      ................................  10
1. Bilateral and Other Donors       ...................  10
2. Previous IDA Involvement and Bank
Strategy in Chad ...........................      11
F.  Summary       ..........................................  12
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission undertaken in
July 1987 by a team consisting of Mr. C. de Haan (mission leader and senior
livestock expert), Mr. M. Asseo (senior economist), Mr. S. Onwona
(economlst), Mr. J.-M. Clanot (consultant sociologist), and Mr. R. Beck
(consultant ecologist, representing also DGIS). The mission was further
assisted in the field by Mr. R. van den Brink (economist) and accompanied
by Messrs. Razafindrakoto and Ducroquet from ADF and Mr. P. Riches from
FAC. The report was edited and typed by Mrs. F. Resa and checked
by Ms. J. Masterson.
This document has a resicted distribution and may be used by recipients Olly In the pefomace
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be dischsed wihout World Bank autiaton



Table of Contents (continued)
Pate No.
IV.  THE PROJECT              ....................                  12
A.  Project Origin, Rationale and Objectives                   12
B. Project Area ...13
C.  Summary Project Description                                13
D.  Detailed Features                                          15
(1) Policy Component .........................            15
(a) Cost Recovery for Veterinary Services ...       15
(b) Liberalization and Privatization of
Input Supply .........................       15
(c) Reform of Export Circuits                       16
(d) Improved Use of Staff Resources                 16
(e) Pastoral Land Use Policy                        16
(2) Project Investments                                   17
(a) Introduction .......     .17
(b) Pastoral Associations                           17
(c) Input Distribution and Private Animal
Health Services and Meat Exports ......    18
sd) Research .......000000**&                       19
(e) MEHP Field Services                             20
(f) MEHP Central Facilities                         21
(g) Operating Costs                                 22
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................         23
Pey Staff Prpaaton...............................          23
Project Preparation ..23
VI.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .............
A.  Project Costs           . ......                           24
B* Financing   ..........5............................         25
C* Procurement                                                 26
D. Disbursements .....                                         27
E. Production, Financial Implications, Benefits and
Risks .... ..27
Incremental Production ......27
Financial Implications for Government                    28
Benefits ......29
Equity Considerations .....30
Risks                                                    30
Environmental Considerations                             30
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................        31



- iii -
ANNEXES
1  The Sociological Context
2   Livestock and Feed Resources
3   Present Regulations Affecting Marketing and Export of Cattle
4  MEHP Organigram
5  MAGAVET Cashflow and Profitability
6   External Assistance to Livestock Sector
7  Letter of Intent on Livestock Development Policy
8   Experience with Pastoral Associations
9   Private Animal Health Care
10   Project Monitoring
11   Technical Assistance and Training
12 Implementation Schedule
13   Project Cost Summary
14   Financing Plan by Project Component
15   Disbursement Schedule
16   Economic Benefits
17   Government Cash Flow
MAP IBRD No. 21015



CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                    Document                                   Date
D02723      Rapport de Preparation, FAO/CP                             2/20187
D06559      Commercialisation du 3etail Bovin et des viandes
bovines au Tchad                                         12/76
D06560      L'evolution du cheptel tchadien et sa production           12183
D06561      Formation recyclage des cadres on methodologie
d* planification - rapport de mission d'identification  4/20185
D06562      Journees nationales de reflexion our l'elevage au
Tchad -- resolutions et recommandations                  6/17/85
D06563      Personnel du Ministero do l'Elevage et do
l'Hydraulique Pastorale et Villageoise                  7/12/85
D06564      Coordination et suivi des activites du soctour
agro-sylvo-pastoral -- note preliminaire sur
la strategie de doveloppement du sectour                6/86
D06565      Programme dhydrauliquo villageoise et pastorale
a Tchad -- ovaluation des moyens do l'ONHPV
en personnel et materiel                                  9/86
D06566      FAO Preparation Report                                     2/3/87
D06567      Etude sur la commorcialisation du b6tail et des
produits de l'ilevafe -- rapport prelmlinaire             8/87
D06568      Premi$re rounion d'evaluation do la campagne
panafricaine 1986-1987 (rapport final)                    6/3/87
D06569      Range Management Aspects -- R. Beck                       9/87
D06570      Equipment needs of MEMP                                    1987
D06571      Economic Cost and Analysis                                 9/87
D06572      Cost Tables                                               9/87
D06573      Ministere do l'Elevage et do l'Hydraulique-Budget 1985   1985
D06574      ONHPV - bilan au 31 decembre 1985                          1985
D06575      Magasin General d'Approvisionnement on Produits et
Materiels Voterinaires (MAGAVET) -- bilan compte
d'exploitation goneral et annexes -- exercice 1985        1985
D06576      MAGAVET - budget 1987                                      1987
BIR         Sociological Aspects, J. C. Clanet                         1987
/IR         Water Resource, F. Authoserre



CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers              Republic of Chad
Beneficiart:           Ministry of Livestock and Rural Water Supply (MEHP)
Amount:                SDR 13.2 million (US$18.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlendina Terms:       Part of the Credit (US$2 million) would be passed on
to a commercial bank for on-lending to the private
sector at interest rates based on the discount rates
of the Bank of Central African States plus a maximum
of 5% overhead charges and 6 months to 10 years
repayment periods according to the type of subloan.
Cofinancinas           The African Development Fund (ADF), the French
Cooperation Fund (FAC) and the Dutch Technical
Cooperation Directorate (DGIS).
Prolect Descriptions   The proposed project would be the first five-year
stage of a long-term program to strengthen
Chad's livestock sector. The project's main
objectives would be to increase national livestock
production, producers' incomes and Government
revenues on a sustainable basis.
This would be achieved through a combination of
policy reforms anu project activities. Policy
reforms would include: (i) increased cost recovery
for services rendered; (ii) liberalization and
p_ivatization of the import and distribution of
veterinary pharmaceuticals; (iii) reform of
livestock export regulations and institutions; (iv)
stabilization of staff levels of the Ministry of
Livestock and Rural Water Supply (MEHP); and (v)
introduction of appropriate land use policies aimed
at long-term resource conservation. Proiect
activities would include: (i) development of
traditional groupings into pastoral associations,
and rehabilitation of water points in the framework
of these associations; (ii) strengthening of input
supply systems; (iii) strengthening of rangeland and
crop/livestock research; (iv) introduction of more
efficient extension methods in MEHP's field
services, and rehabilitation of their facilities;
and (v) strengthening of MEHP capability for
planning and coordination.



- vi -
Estimated Costs (US$ million) a/
component                     Local           Foreian        Total
Pastoral Associations          1.4             2.6            4.0
NAGAVET                        1.3             3.8            5.1
Research                      0.6              1.6            2.2
MEHP Field Services            4.1             8.5            12.6
MEMP Central Services          2.1             4.2            6.3
Total Baseline Costs        9.5             20.7           30.2
Physical Contingencies      0.9              1.7            2.6
Price Contingencies         1.7              2.7            4.4
Total Project Costs        12.1             25.1           37.2
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties of US$3.7 million
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Source of Finance
Local          Foreian        Total
IDA                            6.5            12.1           18.6
ADF                            2.8             8.8           11.6
FAC                            0.2             1.1            1.3
DGIS                           0.2             1.6            1.8
MAGAVET                         0.5            1.0            1.5
Goverrnent                      1.0             -             1.0
Producers                      0.9             0.5            1.4
12.1           25.1           37.2
... 
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FT         1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual         1.7      2.6      3.3     3.9     3.2     2.4     1.5
Cumulative     1.7      4.3     7.6    11.5    14.7    17.1    18.6
Benefits and Risks
The project would improve the policy and
institutional framework of the livestock
sector in input delivery, extension,
marketing and export. This would result In an
increased production of meat and consequently



- vii -
in increased Government and producer revenue,
and in increased production of milk, leading
to Improved nutrition. The accompanying
efforts in resource conservation would
provide essential elements of a long term
strategy in this domain. Risks concern the
efficiency of MEHP in implementing the
project and the recurrence of drought. These
risks would be mitigated by a well defined
technical assistance component, a strong
training component, the project's approach to
work within existing Government and
traditional structures snd the introduction
of better resource management policies aimed
at making the sector less vulnerable to
drought.
Economic Rate of Returns      No rate of return is presented because of the
paucity of data on the sector and the
nstitution building nature of the project.
An alternative type analysis, more compatible
with the quality of Chadian data,
demonstrates however that significant results
can be achieved within a seven to nine year
time fram.



CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Chad has requested IDA's assistance to finance
a National Livestock Project in support of its policy to increase livestock
production, enhance the role of the private sector, especially through
self-financing producer associations, and rationalize and improve the
efficiency of the public sector. The project was prepared by the
FAO/Cooperative Programme in November 1986 and was appraised in July 1987.
Negotiations were held in Washington from January 12 to 15, 1988. The
African Development Fund (ADF), the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) of
France and the Directorate General of International Cooperation of the
Netherlands (DOIS) have confirmed their participation in cofinancing this
project.
I. BACKGROUND
2.        Chad is a landlocked country of 1.3 million km2 in the heart of
Africa, of which about half is suitable for farming and grazing. Four main
climatic zones can be distinguished depending on rainfall:
-    a desert zone to the north of the 15th parallel (more than half
the country's surface), where life is confined to the oases;
-    a semi-desert zone between the 15th parallel and the 300 mm
isohyet (Lake Chad) with a short rainy season, which can support
extensive livestock production;
-    the Sahelian zone between isohyets 300 mm and 800 mm with a
four-month rainy season, which allows more intensive livestock
grazing and cereal production; and
-    the Sudanian zone in the south of the country with a sub-humid
climate and a rainfall of up to 1,200 mm over six months of the
year, which has a good potential for annual food crops and
cotton.
3.        Chad's population is estimated at 4.9 million (1984), with a low
average density of about four inhabitants per square kilometer. In recent
years, population growth has averaged 2.21 p.a. About 85Z of the



- 2 -
population is rural. The five most southern districts account for about
10% of the totql area but contain 452 of the population, with an average
density of 20 inhabitants per km2.
4.        With an estimated per capita income of about US$160 (1986), Chad
is ranked among the very poorest countries in the world. Agriculture,
including livestock, fisheries and forestry, is the mainstay of the economy
and contributed close to half of GDP in 1985; manufacturing and
construction contributed 20%; and services about one-third, as a result of
high transportation costs and a large civil service. Chad's landlocked
position, difficult internal transportation conditions, sparse population,
quasi absence of banking services, limited domestic market and weak human
resource base are severe constraints to the development of its economy and
reduce its export competitiveness.
5.        Chad is a fragile nation which has faced three major crises since
independence in 1960. In 1979, bitter internal conflicts evolved into a
four-year civil war. Droughts occurred in the early 19709 and again in
1984-85 just as the civil war was subsiding. More recently, public and
private revenues suffered from a sharp drop in the world price of cotton,
Chad's major export crop, which previously provided 25% of government
revenues. In 1987v the price of cotton has gone up again, but Chad's heavy
dependence on this sole crop characterized by highly volatile world market
prices, makes its economy very vulnerable. Positive factors, however,
include an active trading and cottage industry sector, vast expanses of
arable land and two almost unused perennial rivers. In addition, the
country has considerable resources in livestock, oil deposits (under study
for exploitation) and other mineral reserves yet to be evaluated.
6.        Chad's economy is recovering from the emergency situation which
prevailed in the aftermath of the civil war and the drought. Real GDP for
1987 is expected to exceed its 1977 peak, although per capita income will
remain below its 1977 level due to population growth. Good rainfall in
1985 and 1986 allowed food production to nearly regain self-sufficiency,
but pockets of food scarcity remain due to inefficiencies in distribution.
7.        Government's attention is now shifting from ad hoc emergency
operations to longer term development planning. Its immediate objectives
are to (a) achieve national food security; (b) reduce dependence on cotton;
(c) rehabilitate the road network; and (d) accelerate the development of
human resources. Long-term objectives are to (i) combat desertification;
(ii) diversify production; (iii) improve rural water supply; (iv) provide
basic health care; (v) rehabilitate commercial and financial structures;
and (vi) rebuild the industrial sector and exploit the country's petroleum
resources. The Government has indicated in the March 1987 Policy Framework
Paper (para 35) that it intends to reach these objectives through the
promotion of private, mostly small-scale, self-financing and traditionally
rooted initiatives, thus limiting public sector intervention and civil
service growth.



II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
8.        Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries,
provides the livelihood of 85X of the population. In 1985, 52% of the
total value of agricultural production came from food crops, 91 from
cotton, and 39% from livestock and fisheries. In the absence of other
resources, agriculture should thus be the locomotive of Chadt's growth.
However, immediste opportunities will have to be sought preferably outside
the two main crops, cereals and cotton. Increase in cereal (millet and
sorghum) production is constrained by limited domestic markets, unreliable
export markets, periodic droughts and the absence of proven technologies;
cotton production is constrained by fluctuating world market prices.
9.        Increasing livestock production is one of the more attractive and
immediate agricultural development options. A rapid expansion of the
Irrigated areas is not feasible because of lack of implementing capacity in
the country and the doubtful economic viability of irrigation (particularly
for rice). Crop diversification requires still further research and
development planning. Expansion of livestock production does not have
these drawbacks because all the resources are available and remunerative
markets exist. The Bank's agricultural strategy in Chad thus envisages
immediate investments in the livestock sector, as well as studies and
research on diversification and irrigation opportunities (under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, (Cr.1775-CD) (para 34)), followed by
actual investments in these subsectors in the Agricultural Services Project
(FY90).
III. THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
A. The Role in the Economy
10.       Livestock raising is a major economic activity involving 40% of
the rural population. In 1985, livestock production was estlmated at
87,000 tons of meat and 100,000 tons of milk for a total value of US$180
million. Livestock on hoof normally accounts for 301 of the formal and
informal merchandise exports, second only to cotton, and has a potential
for further substantial growth. Growth of the sector was seriously
disrupted by the civil war, a Rinderpest outbreak in 1983 and the drought
of 1984. Most recent data (1985) from the Ministry of Livestock and Rural
Water Supply (MEHP) suggest that there are around 3.7 million cattle, 4.5
million sheep and goats, and 0.9 million camels.



-4-
B. The Production System
11.       About 75% of Chadian livestock is raised by migratory
pastoralists of various ethnic backgrounds but with similar traditional
hierarchical structures. At the top of the lineage is a chieftain, often
appointed by the Government and responsible for the collection of taxes.
The intermediate level consists of pastoral clans, each with a different
number of fractions. The bottom level is composed of families grouped
around mobile encampments. The typical family has between six and 15
members, owning in the arid areas about 10 to 20 camels, and in the
somewhat more humid areas 30 to 50 cattle and generally 20 to 30 sheep and
goats. The family head is the key decision-maker on day-to-day herd
management. The actual herding is mostly done by the younger family
members, milking and sale of the dairy products by the women.
12.       The pastoral clan traditionally built and managed water points
and organized the movements of its members' herds between wet and dry
season grazing areas. Grazing rights were clearly defined, and were
directly controlled by the clan leaders (Sahelian Zone) or negotiated by
them with cultivator groups (Sudanian Zone). In more recent times the
importance of this traditional hierarchy has been eroded through the
provision of free public water, increasing population pressure and attempts
by the central administration to reduce the authority of the traditional
leaders. Traditional hierarchy still remains, however, the most important
decision-making structure in matters of watering and grazing. Further
information on the sociology of the pastoral societies in Chad is provided
in Annex 1 and the Project File.
13.       Sedentary livestock production systems prevail in the Sudanian
zone. Cultivators keep livestock for animal traction, and some previously
migratory herders from the Sahel have settled with their livestock in these
more humid areas. Stimulated by the cash from cotton sales, animal
traction has developed strongly in southern Chad and currently uses 130,000
pairs of oxen. Traditional structures are weaker in these cultivator
communities. Groups for the protection of animal health ('Groupements de
Defense Sanitairel - GDS) have been successfully introduced in southern
Chad under FAC-financed projects. Most of these GDSs withstood the turmoil
of the civil war, but at present their effectiveness seems to be limited,
mainly by the lack of veterinary inputs. The project would address this
issue.
14.      Almost all livestock are kept on communally-owned rangelands.
About 75% of the cattle migrate between the Sahelian rangelands in the
rainy season and the flood recession plains and natural grasslands of the
Sudanian zone in the dry season. The high mobility of these transhumant
herds is a definite advantage in periods of drought; during the last
drought, the mortality rate in sedentary herds was three to four times
higher than in Sahelian transhumant herds. In normal years, Chad has
adequate feed resources in the Sahel and unexploited rangelands and crop
by-products in the Sudanian zone. In drought years, fodder production in
the Sahelian zone is inadequate but, because of the surplus in the Sudanian



zone, total available feed would still be enough for a somewhat expanded
and more mobile herd. Development strategies should, therefore, aim at
reinforcing the mobility of Sahelian herders and at increasing the
exploitation of the Sudanian rangelands. More detailed information on
Chad's feed resources is given in Annex 2 and the Project File.
15.       Although the threat of irreversible destruction of the rangelands
is less acute in Chad than in other Sahelian countries, localized
degradation occurs, and the long-term danger of desertification is real.
However, the present system of communal land ownership is not conducive to
conservation, as individuals or groups interested in investing labor or
financial resources in rangeland conservation would not have exclusive
benefit from these investments. In order to mobilize the internal
discipline of the traditional societies and achieve a more rational
rangeland use, a gradual modification of the land tenure system would be
pursued under the project. It would allow the grazing rights to a specific
tract of land (or tracts of land in the wet and dry season areas with trek
routes in between) to be allocated to specific groups (i.e., the herder
associations created under the project).
16.        Livestock diseases are the most important threat to the Chadian
livestock producer. Mortality losses in all livestock species total about
US$60 million per year or more than one-third of total annual production or
1.5 times total annual exports. Camel production is severely constrained
by internal parasites and by trypanosomiasis, a blood parasite transmitted
by the tsetse fly. The few regional epizootiological studies on camel
mortality indicate that average young stock mortality is 35%, and average
adult mortality, 7%. Cattle suffer also from internal and external
parasitic diseases, and have been, in addition, seriously threatened by
the highly contagious diseases, Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine Pleuro
Pneumonia (CBPP). A Rinderpest outbreak in 1983 caused losses estimated at
20% of the total population, or 600,0000 animals. A European Development
Fund (EDF) and FAC-financed campaign has now brought Rinderpest under
control, although the annual vaccination campaigns need to be continued.
Serious losses are further caused by the more localized theiluric diseases,
anthrax, blackleg and pasteurellosis. As a result, overall calf mortality
is about 30% and adult mortality is 2-4%. Small ruminant production is
also impaired by internal parasites and additionally suffers from periodic
epidemics of Small Ruminant Pest (SRP), a virus disease which can wipe out
the sheep and goat population of an entire village. Young stock mortality
in small ruminants is estimated at 40%, adult mortality at 10%.
C. Marketing
17.       Pastoralists sell their livestock to small private traders at
local markets. These traders, in turn, bring the animals to six principal
markets, where they sell them on to larger traders for export or domestic
consumption. Total annual offtake is estimated at about 80,000 camels,
375,000 cattle and 800,000 sheep and goats. Of this total, about 125,000
cattle, 300,000 sheep and goats and almost all camels are consumed locally,
the remaining 250,000 cattle and 500,000 small ruminants are exported. In



-6-
1986, when world cotton prices slumped, the total value of livestock
exports of about CFAF 12 billion was only slightly below foreign exchange
earnings from cotton (CFAF 14.5 billion). In years of better cotton
prices, livestock exports generate about half the income from cotton.
Practically all livestock movements are on hoof, exported almost
exclusively to Nigeria, even though before the war Chad exported
substantial quantities of meat (10 to 20,000 tons per year, equivalent to
70,000 to 140,000 Tropical Livestock Units 1/ ) to Brazzaville and
Libreville. The bulk of these two markets have since been taken over by
subsidized frozen meat from the European Economic Community (EEC).
18.       A livestock marketing study, carried out in 1987 under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (para 34) showed good market prospects
for ChadWan livestock. The Nigerian market presently Imports the
equivalent of about 80,000 tons of meat, and this deficit is expected to
rise to about 250,000 tons by the year 2000. Half of this lemand stems
from northern Nigeria, where Chadian livestock can effectively compete with
meat imports from overseas, even with the subsidized meat from the EEC
(para 75). Furthermore, while the bulk of the meat markets of Brazxaville
and Libreville probably cannot be regained in the imediate future, there
are some limited opportunities for the export of high quality chilled meat
by air. Chad should promote such exports of meat and other processed
livestock products to increase the value added remaining in the country.
The credit line for private traders (para 54) and the improvement of the
Farcha slaughterhouse envisaged under parallel financing would support such
promotional efforts (para 28).
19.       Chad's complex livestock export regulations requiring about ten
different permits, licences, certificates and fee payments (Annex 3) until
recently seriously hampered exports. They are now being simplified as part
of the policy reforms instituted by Government under the project (para 46).
A second export constraint, the level of export taxation (20 to 40S of the
animal's value) would receive further attention under the Financial
Rehabilitation Credit (para 35). This high level not only puts Chadian
livestock at a comparative disadvantage vis-a-vis cattle from other
countries, but also leads to extensive exports outside the official
channels, thus depriving the State of an important source of revenue. A
tax reduction might, together with the ongoing simplification of export
procedures, reduce the present level of tax evasion, and thus yield an
overall increase of Government revenue. However, such a tax reduction can
only be attempted gradually and in an experimental fashion, and is
therefore better carried out in the wider context of a general fiscal
reform as envisaged under the proposed Financial Rehabilitation Credit.
lt   Tropical Livestock Unit (TLU) - One animal of 250 kg, a standard used
to aggregate different classes of livestock.



- 7 -
20.       The livestock export policy reforms already initiated under the
project include also a comprehensive modification of the role of the
Chadian Company for Animal Resources (SOTERA). SOTERA is a mixed-economy
enterprise, owned 511 by Government and 491 by 72 private shareholders,
established in 1974 with a monopoly on the exports of meat, hide and skins.
With the decline in meat exports, however, its functions had evolved almost
exclusively to issuing and controlling export permits of livestock on hoof,
for which SOTERA obtained a monopoly in 1977. These export permits were
distributed to the private shareholders of SOTERA proportionally to the
number of shares they held. However, the total number issued each year was
less than half the total export requirements. The resulting scarcity: (i)
enabled SOTERA shareholders to resell their export rights at many times the
nominal fee they paid, thus providing the shareholders with a rent of up to
CFAF 1 billion per year; (ii) deprived the State of tax revenues, as
livestock which could not be exported within the quota of SOTERA export
permits was forced to be exported through unofficial channels; and (Ili)
forced those exporters not able to obtain a SOTERA permit to make
considerable illicit payments both inside and outside the country because
of the absence of legal export documents. As a result, Chadian livestock
producers receive CFAF 30,000-50,000 (US$100-150 or 25-50% of its gross
value) per head less than producers in neighboring countries. A
substantial liberalisation of the export circuits is therefore introduced
under the project (para 46).
D. The Institutional Framework
21.       The Ministry of Livestock and Rural Water Supply (MEHP) operates
through a State Secretary, a Directorate General, two Directorates
(Livestock and Veterinary Services, and Training and Research) and six
parastatal enterprises (Annex 4). The Ministry's roll of 971 staff,
including 79 professionals, 76 middle-level and 373 lower-level technicians
is, in view of Chad's livestock population, slightly understaffed in the
professional category, adequate in the middle level, but may be in excess
of normal requirements in the lower-level technician category. MEHP's
field services are organised around six livestock districts, 23 livestock
sectors (an average of four per district) and 77 livestock posts (an
average of three per sector). This narrow hierarchical pyramid is
justified in view of Chad's poor commnmications. The technical
capacity--especially of the lower-level technicians--is poor. Their
training has been inadequate; no structured effort is being made to keep
their skills up-to-date or to give them clear guidelines on the kind of
messages to disseminate and how to communicate with producers. Staff
retraining and upgrading and the introduction of an improved extension
methodology have, therefore, high priority.
22.       MEHP's 1987 budget amounted to US$1.3 million, of which US$1.2
million was for staff salaries and only US$130,000 for operating costs.
These operating funds are barely adequate to finance the minimum logistical
support of MEHP's central services and leave no resources whatsoever for
the field services. As a result, field services have virtually ceased to
operate, though salaries continue to be paid. No funds are available for



extension and field research. An exception is the three-monthly Rinderpest
campaign, which is externally funded by FAC, EDF and FAO in the framework
of a continent-wide Rinderpest control effort, the Pan African Rinderpest
Campaign (PARC).  FAC furthermore provides a technical advisor to MEHP.  To
better balance staff and operating resources and convert MEHP into a viable
institution, a policy of maintaining total salary expenditure at its
present level, while enhancing revenue through improved cost recovery,
would be pursued under the project.
23.       The Training Institutes.  Technical training of livestock agents
is provided in Chad by two institutes: MEHP's National School for
Livestock Agents (ENATE), which produces approximately 30 lower level
technicians per year, and the Education Ministry's University Institute for
Livestock Technicians, which trains approximately 12 middle level
technicians per year. The quality of education in these institutes is poor
and heavily oriented towards veterinarian aspects. All veterinarians and
higher level animal production specialists are trained outside the country,
principally in Senegal or France. Graduates of both foreign and local
institutions have an automatic right to a civil service position.
24.       The General Distributor of Veterinary Pharmaceuticals (MAGAVE?)
has a monopoly on the import and nationwide distribution of all veterinary
drugs. It operates through ZEHP's field services, whose agents have the
sole right to sell and administer veterinary drugs in their respective
geographic areas. In 1986, MAGAVET's total income amounted to US$280,000,
including US$70,000 from a levy on the export of cattle. Government
contributed a further US$30,000 to the salaries of MAGAVET's management.
Annex 5 provides an overview of the financial performance of MAGAVET over
the last three years. Drug sales though MAGAVET amounted in 1986 to only
US$0.07 per T.L.U, i.e., about 10% of the minimum requirements for adequate
herd health maintenance. This low consumption is caused by inefficiencies
in MAGAVET's distribution network and the sale and administration monopoly
of MEHP's field service agents -- frequently located 200 km apart and
without much incentive to sell drugs. The low consumption results in poor
animal health and high production losses (para 16). A substantial
improvement in the supply of veterinary pharmaceuticals would be a key
element in improving animal health and production in Chad.
25.       The Water Bureau, administered by an Interministerial Committee
but organically under the Director General of MEHP, is responsible for the
planning of pastoral and village water in Chad, but is at present almost
non-functional. There are about eight donors involved in pastoral water
development (and another 12 in village water development), mainly through
the rehabilitation of existing Government water points, but frequently
without due regard to the carrying capacity of the surrounding rangelands
or to the prior existence of traditional clan-owned wells. This results in
localized overgrazing and in the undermining of traditional resource
management discipline. Under the project the Water Bureau would be
strengthened so that better resource management strategies can be
effectively planned and implemented.



- 9 -
26.       The National Office for Villate and Pastoral Water (ONHVP), an
autonomous parastatal under the responsibility of the Ministry of Livestock
and Rural Water Supply, maintains, rehabilitates and constructs village and
pastoral water points in the rural areas. Chad has about 2,500 Improved
rural water points (concrete wells, tubewells or boreholes), only half of
which are reported to be operational. Official government policy requires
a beneficiary contribution for pastoral water from mechanized boreholes and
for hand-pumped water for human consumption. However, the ensuing revenue
is far below the total maintenance and operating costs of the water points.
Pastoral water from concrete wells is still provided free of charge, on the
argument that maintenance requirements of these wells are low and fee
collection from migratory herders would be too difficult and costly to
implement. ONHVP is strongly oriented towards the construction of new
water points, and is less equipped to provide maintenance services.
27.       Under the ongoing Agricultural Rehabilitation Project ONHVP's
maintenance capabilities are being expanded. Furthermore, FAC provides
Technical Assistance to ONHVP. The medium-term strategy would aim at
devolving the responsibility for the operation and maintenance of pastoral
water points to the pastoral associations and at transferring the technical
maintenance work to private artisans or entrepreneurs. Such strategy would
be in with the January 1987 Government guidelines for village water
development, which stipulate that the users assume full responsibility for
recurrent and maintenance costs and that local artisans carry out such
maintenance on behalf of the villagers.
28.       The Farcha Slaughterhouse, near N'Djamena, has a capacity of
approximately 20,000 tons per year, but actually processes only 7,800 tons
because of the slump in the Brazzaville and Libreville meat markets. Its
dilapidated facilities are being brought up to domestic market standards
under financing from the Agricultural Rehabilitation project (US$100,000
for structural work), the Economic Cooperation Fund of France (CCCE)
(US$600,000 for equipment) and FAC (technical assistance). A further
rehabilitation to bring it up to West African meat export market standards
is envisaged under a second CCCE Credit (US$1.3 million) for further
equipment, and under ADF financing in parallel to this project (US$2.5
million) for civil works. The slaughterhouse is presently covering its
day-to-day operating expenditures. A fee increase, to be introduced
shortly, should provide for maintenance and debt servicing.
29.       The Farcha Laboratory has, from the fifties to the mid-seventies,
through research and vaccine production, played a key role in disease
control in Chad and neighboring countries. Its main departments are
Virology, Bacteriology, Range Management and Vaccine production. It counts
about 20 scientists; six of them are expatriates financed by FAC. EDF and
FAC funding is provided for the rehabilitation of the Vaccine Production
and Virology Departments, and IDA's Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
finances additional equipment and operating expenditure for other
veterinary work. FAC also finances studies on camel and cattle
productivity. The latter is being completed under the IDA-financed
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project. The animal health research needs



- 10 -
further strengthening in the epidemiological aspects and in the economic
evaluation of disease control strategies. Rangeland research remains weak,
hampered by a dearth of trained Chadian range ecologists and livestock
production scientists and by lack of equipment and funding for field
research. There is no research aimed at fostering crop/livestock
integration.
30.       The National Animal Production Enterprise (SONAPA) produces
livestock feed, has a milk collection and processing facility, and distrib-
utes inputs to private poultry producers. It operates exclusively around
N'Djamena and is being rehabilitated through a credit of US$1.5 million
from the Development Bank for the Central African States (BDEAC).
S. External Financina
1. Bilateral and Other Donors
31.       The major sources of external financing and technical assistance
for the Chadian livestock sector are EDF and FAC. Smaller contributions
are provided by the West German Technical Cooperation Society (GTZ) and by
the non-government organization OXFAM. A detailed list of externally
financed livestock projects is given in Annex 6. Institutional support to
MEHP, ONHVP, the Farcha Laboratory and slaughterhouse and SONAPA has been
described earlier (paras 22, 27, 28, 29 and 30). FAC, EDP and FAO have
jointly financed Rinderpest vaccination campaigns from 1983 to 1987. FAC
supports animal health and supplementary feeding activities in an
Integrated Rural Development Project in part of the Chari'-Baguirmi district
and the formation of producer groups for input distribution and simple
treatments for draft oxen in the cotton areas (para 13). FAC has indicated
its interest in integrating these activities into the proposed project in
1988, at the end of their ongoing agreement. GTZ's support has just
started in the Ouaddai district with the organization of a grassroot animal
health system and the formation of herder associations. EDF finances the
rehabilitation of Livestock Service buildings in the Sahelian zone, water
development and the creation of two herder associations in part of the
Kanem and Batha provinces. Finally, OXFAM has just started 50 herder
associations in the eastern Batha district, each comprising a small number
of herder families.
32.       The large variety of donor agencies and weak coordination result
in duplication, sometimes inconsistent policies, poor standardization and
suboptimal use of resources. MEHP has no accurate information on the
status and impact of the different projects. Also, the various donors
sometimes follow different and conflicting policies, for example, with
regards to the degree of Government involvement and the level of initial
beneficiary participation in herder associations. New water points are
implanted without regard to other donor activities or to other donor and
Government efforts to introduce beneficiary participation in water point
maintenance. Finally, lack of standardization of pumping equipment greatly
complicates water point maintenance. In order to improve donor



- 11 -
coordination, the project has involved the major donors in its preparation
and appraisal and would aim tot (a) strengthen the central coordination
agencies (MEHP's Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and the Water
Bureau); (b) articulate clear livestock policies; and (c) organize regular
donor consultations.
2. Previous IDA Involvement and Bank Stratezy in Chad
33.       IDA lending for the subsector has been limited to the First
Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD, US$2.2 million approved in February
1972), and consisted mainly of studies and well construction and repair.
The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) concludes that the project
succeeded in achieving its objectives, but because of the civil war its
impact was smaller than initially planned. Due to the civil wfar, the
Second Livestock Project (Credit 783-CD, US$11.5 million, approved in March
1978), with a more comprehensive approach including delineation of pastoral
units, animal health activities, credit and Livestock Service staff
training, was cancelled before becoming effective. The PPAR concluded that
the project was well designed and appraised and that its main elements are
still considered essential for successful pastoral development. IDA's
post-war agricultural lending program has so far addressed the emergency
situation in the cotton subsector (Credit 1716-CD) and the urgent need for
planning and aid coordination (Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, para
34). In line with Goverment, the Bank's strategy is now shifting to a
longer term perspective, allocating high priority to investments which (a)
give early returns through increased production; (b) do not significantly
increase Government recurrent charges; and (c) if possible, contribute to
increase Government revenues.
34.       The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1775-CD) aims, in
the livestock sector, specifically to la) assist MEHP in defining an
overall development policy through the provision of technical assistance in
livestock production economics (2 man-years); (b) assist the Inter-
ministerial Office for Studies and Projects (BIEP) and HEHP in carrying out
studies on livestock marketing (para 18) and completing a livestock census
and productivity survey started under FAC financing; and (c) provide an
initial funding for urgent structural rehabilitation work at the Farcha
slaughterhouse and for the equipment and rehabilitation of the Farcha
veterinary laboratory and support services. In view of the delays in
starting the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, the policy formulation
tasks would aim at monitoring and fine-tuning the reforms to be undertaken
under this project. Under the Economic and Financial Management Project
(FY89S), Government plans to carry out management studies and audits on six
key parastatal companies including the Farcha slaughterhouse and SONAPA.
35.       The Policy Framework Paper (PFP), formulated in March 1987 in
close cooperation between Government, IDA and IMF, fully supports the
analyses and proposed strategies in this project. It specifically
acknowledges the important role livestock could play in Chad's economic
development and expresses Government intentions to (a) rationalize and
simplify the livestock export regulations; (b) increase private sector



- 12 -
involvement in the provision of inputs and services; and (c) restrict
SOTERA's dominance in livestock marketing. The Financial Rehabilitation
Credit (FY88), presently under preparation, would further underpin the
policy changes in the sector by improving public investment prograiming,
increasing the level of operating expenditure (other than personnel
expenditures) and improving tax administration, especially addressing the
issue of the high level of livestock export taxation.
F. Summary
36.       The proceeding paragraphs highlight the potential of the
livestock sector to contribute to Chad's economic recovery. This potential
would to be strengthened through:
(a) the development of alternative channels for the provision of
veterinary and other inputs, technical advice and management of
water points and improved resource management using the
traditional social groupings of the herders;
(b) a gradual privatisation of drug sales and imports accompanied by
an increase in drug prices to ensure the financial sustainability
of the trade;
(c) improvements in livestock export marketing by (i) abolishing the
aystem of export quotas; (ii) cancelling SOTERA's monopoly and
controls; (iii) simplifying export formalities; and (iv)
simplifying, and possibly reducing, export taxation;
Cd) improvements in the organization and technical level of the MEHP
staff;
(e) improvements in the operational capability of MRHP by instituting
a better balance between salaries and other operating costs by
limiting staff recruitment and improving cost recovery; and
(f) improvements in the aid coordination and policy planning
capabilities of MEHP.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin, Rationale and Objectives
37.       Oriain.  The project was identified in June 1986 by an FAO/CP
mission and ws initially conceived as a component of a larger Agricultural
Sector Project. However, in view of the need for further studies in the
crop sector, compared with the more immediate opportunities in the
livestock sector, it was decided to accelerate the preparation of the
livestock component and develop this component as a free-standing project.



- 13 -
The project was prepared by an FAOICP mission in October/November 1986 and
appraised in July 1987 by a Joint World Bank, ADF, FAC and DGIS mission.
38.       Rationale.  The project would be fully consistent with the
development strategy agreed upon between the Government of Chad and IDA and
would complement the mainly regional activities of other donors. IDA's
involvement would be essential in having the Government focus on these
policy and coordination efforts. Furthermore, the project would be an
important element in IDA's overall lending program for Chad, as it would
complement the planned adjustments envisaged under the Financial
Rehabilitation Credit, implementing appropriate policies in the areas of
livestock parastatals, public finance and fiscal administration. The
project would also complement the IDA Cotton Emergency operations in its
search for alternatives to cotton farming, would be an important precursor
to the proposed Agricultural Services Project through its group formation
and extension activities, and would be a follow-up on the policy
formulation and research efforts started under the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project.
39.       Objectives.  The proposed project would represent the first
five-year stage of a long-term program to strengthen Chad's livestock
sector. The project's main objectives would be to increase national
livestock production, producer income and Government revenue on a
sustainable basis. This would be achieved through a combination of policy
reforms and investments leading initially to improved access by producers
to livestock health services and extension inputs and by merchants to
export markets. A subsequent objective would lead to improved rangeland
utilization and resource management. The project would strengthen the
private and public sectors in the areas of their respective comparative
advantages, i.e., the private sector in input supply and the provision of
services to individual herders and the public sector in extension and
sanitary control. The project would further institute policy changes aimed
at export promotion and improved cost recovery.
B. Prolect Area
40.       The project's institution building components would be national
in scope. However, the organization of pastoral associations would
initially be undertaken inside a 20,000 km2 area located in the districts
of Kanem, Chari-Baguirmi, Batha and Guera (see Map). All migratory
production systems prevailing in Chad are represented in this area, thus
making it well-suited for pilot operations envisaged for subsequent
extension to the rest of the country.
C. Summary Proiect Description
41.       The project would combine essential policy reforms with
investment and institution building activities. The policy reforms, which
in part already have been implemented, aim to:



- 14 -
(a) increase the degree of cost recovery for preventive and curative
animal health services rendered by the public sector;
(b) liberalize and privatize the import and distribution of livestock
inputs and most veterinary services;
(c) reform the livestock export circuits and liberalize marketing and
export of livestock on hoof, by abolishing the export quota
system and SOTERA's control and monopoly functions, and by
simplifying the fiscal and administrative regulations affecting
livestock marketing;
(d) stabilize staff recruitment by the Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Water and improve staff efficiency; and
(e) define appropriate land tenure and pastoral water management
policies to achieve long-term resource conservation.
42.       These policy reforms would be underpinned with projlect activities
to strengthen the sectoral institutions and improve their infrastructure.
The project would provide funds for office construction and rehabilitation,
equipment and vehicles, training and technical assistance and, on a
declining scale, operating costs to:
(a) create and strengthen livestock producer groups to play an
expanded role in basic animal health care, water and resource
management and the rehabilitation of approximately 100 water
points;
(b) improve input distribution and meat export by (i) strengthening
MAGAVET's wholesale functions, increasing its working capital and
expanding its regional network; and (ii) creating a line of
credit to assist about 40 veterinarians andlor livestock
technicians in taking up private retail distribution and clinical
animal health services, and private traders in exporting meat or
meat by-products;
(c) strengthen the Farcha Laboratory to carry out producer-oriented
research on rangeland conservation, integration of livestock into
the farming system and the economics of disease control methods;
(d) introduce efficient extension methods in the Livestock Service
and retrain its staff, rehabilitate MEHP field facilities and
provide them with basic veterinary and extension equipment and
appropriate transportation; and
(e)  strengthen MEHP's planning, coordination, project monitoring and
water development capability, and build and equip an additional
office for MEHP in N'Djamena.



- 15 -
D. Detailed Features
1. Policy Component
43.       In line with Government's policies stated in the PFP (para 35), a
comprehensive set of reforms would be introduced in the livestock sector.
Government has formally committed itself to the principles of these policy
reforms in a letter of intent (LOI) on livestock development policy; most
reforms have been implemented before Board presentation of this project.
In those areas where further studies or consultations are necessary, i.e.,
land tenure and land use policies, agreements on the broad principles have
been reached at negotiations, but actual promulgation of the corresponding
legislation would be at mid-term, i.e., before December 31, 1990. A policy
matrix and a copy of the LO! are given in Annex 7 and detailed below.
(a) Cost Recovery for Veterinary Services
44.       The private sector would be encouraged to supply and distribute
veterinary products (presently under MAGAVET monopoly) and provide
veterinary services (now exclusively provided by the Livestock Services).
To create a favorable environment for private institutions to develop and
at the same time to Improve the operating efficiency of the Livestock
Service on a sustainable basis, producers would pay for (a) the full real
cost of non-compulsory vaccinations, curative treatments and clinical
interventions; and (b) starting May 31, 1990, (at the end of the PARC) the
marginal cost of compulsory vaccinations. Following agreement at
negotiations, a fee of CFAF 50 after non-compulsory vaccination and CFAF
300 per clinical intervention has been promulgated; these amounts would be
adjusted each year on the basis of more precise cost calculations by MEHP's
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (para 84(a)). Furthermore,
Government agreed at negotiations that the revenue from these charges would
be deposited in a Special Account in a commercial bank in Chad, and would
only be used to pay non-salary recurrent costs of MEHP (para 84(b)).
(b) Liberalization and Privatization of Input Supply
45.       Increasing the supply of pharmaceuticals and other inputs would
be the key action to generate an increase in livestock production. To
achieve this, a significant liberalization and privatization of the import,
distribution and administration of veterinary drugs is being introduced.
To this effect, Government intends to transform MAGAVET into a mixed-
economy company open to national and foreign partners, and has agreed at
negotiations that the prices of all veterinary products sold by MAGAVET
would be kept in line with their real costs and that as of July 31, 1988,
all direct and indirect subsidies to MAGAVET would be suspended (para
84(c)). Publication of MAGAVET's revised statutes is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 85 (a)). An audit and management review has been
carried out, and an invitation for private investors to participate in
MAGAVET has been published (Annex 7, appendix 2). Furthermore, Government
has promulgated regulations authorizing all merchants to sell freely
non-prescription veterinary products and all qualified private



- 16 -
veterinarians and livestock agents to provide veterinary services and sell
prescription and non-prescription veterinary drugs. Government has further
agreed to abolish MAGAVET's drug import monopoly before January 1, 1991
(parm 84(d)). Preserving MAGAVET's monopoly until January 1, 1991, would
be necessary to reorganize and strengthen MAGAVET and set up the necessary
quality control capabilities in MEHP. The eligibility criteria for private
companies to import and distribute veterinary products afterwards, to be
estabiished in consultation with IDA, would be published before January 1,
1991 (para 84(d)).
(c) Reform of Export Circuits
46.       To market future incremental production and increase Government
revenue from the sector, export circuits need to be substantially improved.
This would be achieved by abolishing SOTERP's export monopoly and the
system of export quotas and by simplifying the administrative and fiscal
regulations. To this effect, Government has promulgated legislation
pertaining to the abolition of all livestock export quotas (except
reproductive females, needed to maintain the national herd) and SOTERA's
export monopoly. Under this legislation, the number of Government agencies
controlling livestock export is reduced to threes (i) the Ministry of
Finance, which issues the livestock export licence, the validity of which
has been increased to one year -- this livestock export licence is
available to all interested persons and companies; (il) the Livestock
Service, which issues the international health certificate, and is
responsible for export statistics -- the livestock exporter is to pay for
these services at their real cost; and (iii) the Customs Service, which
levies a single export tax incorporating the previously levied export,
business and debt amortization taxes. The feasibility of modifying the
actual tax rate would be studied under the fiscal reform program to be
initiated under the Financial Rehabilitation Credit (para 19).
(d) Improved Use of Staff Resources
47.       Staff resources of MERP are inefficiently utilized because of a
combination of low budgetary resources and an automatic admission policy
for all graduates applying for the Civil Service. Government has therefore
agreed to maintain the staff of MEHP for the first five years of the
project at the level of January 1, 1988 (para 84(e)). This staff freeze,
combined with improved cost recovery procedures and temporary funding of
non-salary recurrent costs by the project, would considerably improve the
balance of non-salary to salary costs, thus allowing more efficient use of
available staff.
(e) Pastoral Land Use Policy
48.       In order to promote a system of sustainable land use, Government
would prepare, in close consultation with IDA, a national Pastoral Land Use
Policy. Key elements of this policy would be (a) the transfer of hitherto
public pastoral water points to pastoral associations; (b) the involvement
of pastoral associations in the financing, management and maintenance of



- 17 -
these points; and (c) the prior agreement of the Water Bureau, the Pastoral
Organization Unit, traditional leaders and herder associations on the
creation of new water points. The Land Use Policy would also include
elements of territorial organization, the adjudication of exclusive grazing
rights to pastoral associations and the granting of user rights of specific
transhumance trek routes to those pastoral associations. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would promulgate a land use policy
based on these principles by December 31, 1990 (para 84(f)).
2. Proisct Investments
(a) Introduction
49.       Project investments would aim at strengthening sectoral
institutions and providing them with the necessary infrastructure and
operating expenditure. Institution building would be geared towards a
realignment of responsibilities within the sector. Thuw, the
responsibility for clinical and most preventive animal health services
would be transferred to the private sector, I.e., to herder associations
for the nomadic producers and to private livestock agents for the sedentary
producers. This private animal health care system would be supported by
the privatization of input distribution. Herder associations would also
become increasingly involved in water point and resource management. MEHP
would concentrate on the public sector tasks of extension and sanitary
control, and remain responsible for the yearly vaccination campaign against
Rinderpest and CBPP, because of their requirements for complex equipment
and centralized management. In areas without private animal health
practitioners, the Government would continue to dispense health services,
but at full cost to avoid further constraining MEHP's budget and unfair
competition with any emerging private initiative.
(b) Pastoral Associations
50.       Following the promising model developed in other countries
(Annex 8), associations would be formed initially around the supply of
veterinary drugs and simple veterinary care, because of the high priority
pastoralists attach to these services. Training of selected association
members (auxiliaries) in the use and management of drugs and pharmacies
would therefore be the initial project thrust. The management of water
points and the attribution of grazing rights would be added gradually. The
associations would be based on traditional structures and hierarchies, but
in a framework recognized by the Central Administration. The basic unit to
evolve into a herder association would therefore be the clan (para 12).
The clan would have the optimum size (50-200 families) for water point and
resource management; for animal health care, it would be the umbrella
organization through which the training of auxiliaries and the supply of
drugs would be channelled to the smaller compounds (5-20 families) of the
clan. Because of easier logistics and stronger social cohesion of the
prevailing tribes in North-west Kanem, the organization of pastoral
associations would be initiated in that part of the pilot area (para 40)



- 18 -
and gradually extend East and South. The western part of the area has less
acute water problems and, therefore, transhumance movements of smaller
magnitude. The eastern part requires deeper wells (50 to 60 meters).
Migrations in the eastern part are longer in time and distance covered and
are concentrated along treks where water is available.
51.       The project would support a Pastoral Organization Unit at MEHP
headquarters to provide technical and organizational assistance to set up
the associations and coordinate inputs of other agencies, such as MAGAVET
and the field services of MEHP. Furthermore, it would be responsible for
the initial training of the auxiliaries and coordinate the follow-up
training to be provided by MEHP staff. The Unit would be staffed by a
local sociologist, a veterinarian, an agrostologist and a statistician.
Government has already established the Unit. Funds are being provided
under PPF to train Chadian staff in the particular techniques of pastoral
organization. The services of a specialist in pastoral organization (2
man-years) and short-term consultancies of a sociologist and a specialist
in land tenure problems to assist the Government in the formulation of the
Pastoral Land Use Policy (para 48) would be internationally procured. The
project would also provide three vehicles and operating expenditure and
carry out an aerial survey. Through the fellowship program and in close
cooperation with the University of N'Djamena, the project would endeavor to
establish a core of Chadian sociological and pastoral organization
expertise, which could expand project activities to a national scale in a
subsequent phase. Furthermore, funds would be provided under this
component to rehabilitate aboat 100 water points in the pastoral
organization zone, so that points can be allocated to individual
associations as the pivotal point of a future land use policy.
(c) Input Distribution, Private Animal Health Services and
Meat Exports
52.       Improving the availability of veterinary and other supplies would
be the key factor in increasing livestock productivity and producer
confidence. The project would therefore increase MAGAVET's stock of
supplies, improve its distribution network and strengthen its management.
Thus, the project would finance 75% of the necessary increase of MAGAVET
stock (the other 25% would come from the sales margin), to a level capable
of meeting six month's demand. Six distribution vehicles and two
provincial distribution centers would be financed to facilitate the
establishments of regular sales routes. These routes would reach pastoral
associations, MEHP field posts, private technicians (prescription and
non-prescription drugs) and private traders and markets (non-prescription
drugs only). MEHP has already published the lists of permitted
non-prescription and prescription drugs; updates would be published every
three years. A sales manager would be recruited for three years to assist
the Director General of MAGAVET in the organization and supervision of this
crucial network. One-week training programs would be organized as required
by MAGAVET in cooperation with ENATE, for private traders involved in the
sale of non-prescription drugs.



- 19 -
13.       To further assist in the privatization of animal health services
in the field, a line of credit would be established under the project to
finance the investments and initial operating costs of MEHP veterinarians
and technicians who wish to start private veterinary practice and
pharmacies. A total of up to forty loans, averaging $20,000 each, starting
in PY2 would be envisaged. Government would encourage its livestock
technicians to start these private veterinarian clinics and pharmacies.
Thus, at negotiations it was agreed that Government would allow MEHP
technicians to take up to two years of leave of absence without pay to test
the feasibility of a private veterinary practice, and that it would open
the possibility of involving these private technicians, on a contractual
basis, in the obligatory Rinderpest/CBPP campaign (para 84(g)). An
analysis of the profitability of these subloans is provided in Annex 9.
54.       To open meat export markets for private traders, an additional
line of credit of US$400,000 would be established under the project. With
an expected turnaround time of 6 months, this amount would finance the
export of up to 1000 tons of meat per year, and therefore be an important
catalyst in re-establishing Chadian meat in foreign markets. Over the
first three years of the project, the project would finance a special
incentive of CFAF 100 per kg of meat exported to defray the high transport
cost from N'Djamena to the coastal urban centers, because of prevailing
airline monopolies. This incentive would make the meat competitive with
other high quality meat imported in the coastal markets from Europe and
Southern Africa as shown by the Livestock Marketing Study (para 18 and
Project File).
55.       These lines of credit would be managed by a commercial bank in
Chad and supervised by a committee comprising the Director General of MEHP,
the Project Coordinator and representatives of the Planning and Finance
Ministries, the Presidency and the technicians themselves, when organized.
Credit conditions for private technicians and meat exporters would include
market level interest rates; the private technicians would be granted a
three-year grace period and repayment over ten years; the meat exporters
would have no grace period and repay over 6 months. The interest rate
would be fixed at the level of the basic interest rate permitted by the
Bank of the Central African States (BEAC) as the indicator for the market
rate plus the onlending overhead costs. Total rates of 10.8% for the
investments and 14.4% for the operating costs would result, applying the
present basic rates. Further details would be elaborated by the Financial
Controller, being recruited under PPF financing, and would be forwarded to
IDA for approval.
(d) Research
56.       Producer-oriented research aimed at defining technically and
socially acceptable techniques for rangeland conservation and
crop/livestock integration is important for the long term sustainability of
the sector. In rangeland research, initial work would concentrate on
Improving available information on feed resources and their use. It would
combine remote sensing techniques with field observations on the behavior



_ 20 -
and performance of migratory and sedentary herds. After the initial two
years and upon completion of the resource assessment, research would shift
to the identification of range improvement and fodder production
techniques. This research would be carried out within the framework of the
pastoral associations and focus on simple grazing management and reseeding
techniques. In the more humid areas, it would concentrate on the
possibility of introducing higher quality forage in the production system
with simple techniques like fodder banks and alley farming. Details of
these techniques are in Annex 2. To enable the implementation of this
research, the project would finance, starting under PPF financing, the
training of five Chadian scientists in range ecology and animal production.
The project would finance satellite data analysis services, a
microcomputer, other research equipment and expenditures and the purchase
and maintenance of three vehicles. Finally, the Chadian range scientists
would be assisted by an internationally recruited rangeland ecologist (3
man-years) and by short term consultants in satellite data analysis, range
management and forage production.
57.       Although most veterinary research and vaccine production is
already adequately financed (para 29), epizootiological research to
identify the most important small ruminant and camel diseases, their
seasonal and geographical variations and the economics of eventual control
measures is still weak. The project would therefore provide funds to train
two Chadian veterinarians in epizootiology and carry out surveys,
especially on disease incidence in camels and small ruminants. This survey
would rely on the Livestock District and Farcha laboratory facilities for
their diagnostic work and would therefore not require additional equipment.
(e) MEHP Field Services
58.       The realignment of MEHP tasks would be accompanied by a more
efficient organization of MEHP field services according to those principles
of the Training and Visit system applicable to the prevailing production
systems. This would include a specific and regular program of closely
supervised field visits for each agent, continuous training of staff around
specific themes and messages, and a closer involvemert of research
scientists in staff training. Contact with producers would be mostly
through pastoral associations and GDS. In areas where those groups have
not been established, the livostock agent would work through individual
producers. Control functions would be normally separated from the
extension tasks, except in one-agent posts, where they would have to be
combined with extension tasks. In order not to overstretch MEHP's
implementing capabilities, the system would be introduced gradually,
starting in PY1 in only two of the six regions and adding the remaining
four regions over PY2 and 3.
59.       The implementation of this program would be supported by project
funding for the construction of two new livestock sector buildings, the
rehabilitation of 60 field offices not yet covered by EDF and FAC
financing, and the acquisition of cold chain equipment for vaccination
campaigns, small veterinary supplies, extension material and office



- 21 -
furnishings. In addition, the project would provide one vehicle per
district and sector and, on average, two motorcycles per post to ensure
adequate mobility and supervision of field staff. The six district offices
would be equipped with simple diagnostic equipment (microscope and
centrifuge) for basic veterinary diagnostics and the preparation of samples
for reference to the Farcha Laboratory.
60.       Field service staff would be trained in 3-week courses organized
through the local training institute, ENATE. These refresher courses would
be repeated each year and would focus on different themes. Emphasis would
be on upgrading animal production, range management and further technical
skills. Improvement of the ability of field staff to communicate with the
herders would be a central objective. The project would finance the
international recruitment of one Training Specialist with experience in
livestock training (3 man-years) to assist the ENATE Director in the
organization of the refresher courses. Overseas training for the teaching
staff, a bus, and some equipment and operating cost would also be financed
under the project.
61.       Field staff training would be followed up with monthly workshops
at central, district and sector levels. These workshops would focus on the
recommendations to be passed on to the producers. The Farcha research
staff have agreed to participate in the training of district staff. Two
subject matter specialists would be appointed in each district and sector,
one in animal health and one in animal production and range management. To
assist the Director General of MEHP in implementing this new organization,
a veterinarian with experience in extension systems, who would act at the
same time as Project Coordinator (para 67), would be internationally
recruited for the duration of the project (5 man-years).
(f) MEHP Central Facilities
62.       Prolect Honitorina and Evaluation Unit.  MEHP's Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be strengthened to improve policy
formulation and coordination and monitoring of the scattered development
activities. The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system would cover
physical implementation and impact of all ongoing livestock projects.
Impact would be assessed through a combination of routine data collection
on a number of herds and flocks and in-depth studies on specific topics to
be undertaken in consultation with IDA. These studies would be carried out
in close coordination with other Chadian institutes, such as BIEP for
general Impact studies, the Farcha Laboratory for epizootiological studies
and the University of N'Djamena for socioeconomic studies. BIEP would also
participate in the design of the routine data collection system and would
be provided with all results to use in their comparative impact evaluations
of all agricultural projects. Further technical details on the M&E system
to be introduced are provided in Annex 10. The results of these
evaluations would be reviewed in biannual meetings to which all external
donors would be invited. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would further
establish an informal system of donor coordination through the organization
of quarterly meetings of key project personnel involved in the sector,



- 22 -
under the chairmanship of the Director General of MEHP, to discuss and
arrive at common policies.
63.       To carry out this program, NEHP's Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit would be strengthened with local staff redeployed from
other MEHP units and provided with adequate transport and operating funds
for specific studies. The project would finance the international
recruitment of a zootechnician-economist to assist in M&E beyond the policy
formulation tasks funded under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.
Financing under the National Livestock Project would therefore start only
in PY3 and continue for two years.
64.       Water Bureau.  To improve MEHP's capacity to plan and coordinate
rural water programs, the project would strengthen the Water Bureau and
develop it into an effective department, which, together with Farcha's
Rangeland Research Department and the Pastoral Organization Unit, would
develop a resource planning system to achieve a better balance between
carrying capacity and livestock water supply. To assist the Director of
the Water Bureau, the project would finance an internationally recruited
hydrogeologist (3 man-years) and short-term consultants in resource
management and administration of rural water. Funding would also be
provided for two vehicles, some equipment and the Bureau's project related
operating costs. Present facilities would be expanded with 90 m2 of
additional office space to centralize the now-scattered archives and
offices.
65.       MEHP Directorate of Administration and Finance.  To assist MEHP's
Directorate of Administration in handling the larger volume of expenditures
expected under the project, a financial controller and two experienced
accountant assistants would be recruited locally on a contractual basis.
An additional financial controller would be recruited internationally for
six months under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and extended for
another six months in PY1 to assist the Director of Administration and
Finance of MEHP in setting up procurement and financial procedures
according to IDA requirements. This input would be followed by
backstopping missions of two months each year over the PY2 to PY5 period.
The project would also finance the construction of a 500 m2 building in
N'Djamena for the General Directorate of MEHP, the Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit and the Pastoral Organization Unit.
(g) Operating Costs
66.       The project would supplement MEHP's non-salary operating budget
up to the minimum required for an efficient use of its human resources.
This would include incremental costs for transport, field allowances
(according to the Government scale and regulations for up to 150 field days
per year), supplies for diagnostic work and material for demonstration
purposes. The project's contribution to field allowances and vehicle
operating costs would be staggered to coincide with the introduction of
better extension methods. IDA's contribution to the operating costs would
be: (a) made dependent on Government maintaining its own contribution at



- 23 -
least at the present level (CFAF 40 million or US$144,000), Government
assurances were obtained to that effect (para 84(h)); and (b) gradually
reduced in parallel with an increase in revenues from cost recovery
measures.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
67.       Key Staff.  The project would be implemented by MEHP's existing
central and field services and with existing MEHP staff. Except for one
high level financial controller and two accountant assistants (para 65), no
local recruitment for long term positions would be envisaged. The project
would be carried out under the responsibility of the State Secretary of
MEMP with regards to the annual and long term planification, preparation of
the corresponding budget, and evaluation. The implementation of these
budgets and plans would be the responsibility of the Director General of
MEHP as National Project Director assisted by an internationally recruited
Project Coordinator (veterinarian/extension specialist). The Project
Coordinator would work in close cooperation with and complement the
FAC-financed advisor to the Minister (para 22), whose functions concern
mainly the veterinary aspects of livestock production. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the posts of National Project Director,
Director of MAGAVET and the Chief of the Pastoral Organization Unit would
at all times be filled by staff with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA (para 84(i)). The Director General of MEHP would
supervise the execution of project activities by the central and field
services and the Pastoral Organization Unit. He would coordinate the
activities carried out at MAGAYET and the Farcha Laboratory. Project
management would be further strengthened by the international recruitment
of a financial controller for six months under the Project Preparation
Facility, plus another six months in PY1 and two months per year from PY2
to PY5 to assist in setting up financial procedures according to IDA
requirements. The technical assistance and training requirements are
summarized in Annex 11. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
qualifications and experience, terms of reference and conditions of
employment of all internationally recruited staff and of all consultants
financed by the IDA Credit would be acceptable to IDA (para 84(j)). The
recruitment of the Project Coordinator would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 85(b)). An implementation schedule is provided in
Annex 12.
68.       Prolect Preparation.  To accelerate initial project
implementation, IDA has granted US$700,000 as advance financing under the
PPF. This is being used to (a) start preparation work for the creation of
herder associations; (b) draft statutes and prepare reorganization plans
for MAGAVET and SOTERA and carry out an audit and management study of
MAGAVET; (c) prepare the documentation for the civil works components, and
(d) start the training program for Chadian sociologists and agrostologists
for the Pastoral Organization Unit and the Farcha Laboratory and for
accountants for the Directorate of Administration and Finance. Initial



- 24 -
project implementation would be facilitated by the Livestock Economist
financed under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (para 34), who
assists Government in further fine-tuning of a livestock development policy
and collects basic productivity data, thus improving future policy
decisions and institution-building.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Prolect Costs
69.       Total project costs are estimated at CFAF 10.292 million (US$37.2
million). The cost estimates are based on mid-1987 average costs for
staffing, construction and inputs in Chad and for international supplier
quotations for vehicles, equipment, satellite data analysis services and
technical assistance. Costs are exclusive of identifiable taxes and duties
from which the project would be exempt, except for import duties on fuel
and lubricants and on locally purchased items totalling US$3.7 million.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% and calculated on all
costs, apart from technical assistance, whose specifications are clearly
established.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Estimated Costs a/
Local       Foreign      Total   % of Foreign
Exchange
Pastoral Associations         1.4           2.6         4.0          65
NAGAVET                        1.3          3.8         5.1           74
Research                      0.6           1.6         2.2           72
MEHP Field Services            4.1          8.5        12.6           68
MEHP Central Services          2.1          4.2         6.3           67
Base Cost                     9.5          20.7        30.2          69
Physical Contingencies        0.9           1.7         2.6          65
Price Contingencies            1.7          2.7         4.4          61
Total Project Costs           12.1         25.1        37.2
a/  Inclusive of taxes and duties of US$3.7 million.
Price contingencies have been calculated assuming a 5% annual increase for
local expenditures and 3.5% for foreign expenditures.



- 25 -
70.       Thirty-one percent of total project cost would be used to develop
the private sector (172 for MAGAVET and 14% for herder associations). The
remaining 69S would be allocated to the central (20Z), field (42%) and
research services (7%) of MEHP. More detailed cost information is provided
in Annexes 13 and 14.
B. Financing
71.       Financing Plan.  The total extetnal financing requirement would
be US$33.3 million. US$1.0 million (mostly local salaries) would be borne
by Government, and US$1.4 million would be expected from beneficiary
contributions in vaccination and treatment fees. MAGAVET's share (25%) of
the cost of increased drug stocks plus its operating costs comes to about
US$1.5 million. The French (FAC) and Dutch (DGIS) bilateral aid
authorities have confirmed their participation in the financing of part of
the training and technical assistance for MEHP, and in the research
components of the project. FAC financing, which would cover mainly
technical assistance to MEHP, would be about US$1.3 million in a grant
form, while financing of the research component by DGIS would be US$1.8
million, also as a grant. The African Development Fund has also confirmed
its intention to cofinance the civil works, vehicles, material and
equipment for MEHP's field services. ADF's contribution would amount to
US$11.6 million. IDA would expect to finance the remaining US$18.6
million. The Credit effectiveness of the ADF Credit, and the formal
agreement of FAC to finance the technical assistance for the Water Bureau
and the Training Component would be conditions of IDA Credit effectiveness
(para 85(c) and (d)).
72.       Accounts and Auditing.  At Credit effectiveness and upon request
from the Government, IDA would transfer CFAF 150 million ($540,000) or six
months working capital to a Special Account opened by MEHP. In addition,
Government has opened a special account for the revenue of MEHP field
service fees, to be used for non-salary operating costs of MEP (para 44).
These two accounts would be operated jointly by the Director General of
MEHP and the Project Coordinator, or their delegates. An independent
auditor has carried out the first audit of MAGAVET's current accounts just
before the Board presentation of this project. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that (a) MEHP and MAGAVET would submit to IDA, within six
months of the close of each financial year, an annual audit report of all
project related accounts, including the two Special Accounts, lines of
credit and the Statements of Expenditure, prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, including an assessment as to whether (i) goods and
services have been procured from member countries of the Bank, Switzerland
or Taiwan; (ii) goods have been received or work performed; and (iii)
payment has been made; and (b) MMHP would produce quarterly and annual
progress reports for submission to all donors, including IDA, showing
actual against budgeted expenditures, physical progress achieved, and
objectives for the next period by project component, and prepare the
Project Completion Report (PCR)(para 84(k)).



- 26 -
C. Procurement
73.       Given the small size, wide geographic distribution and phasing
over time of the operation, foreign firms are not likely to bid for civil
works contracts (estimated costs US$3.7 million) or for the rehabilitation
of wells (estimated costs US$2.0 million). Contracts for civil works would
therefore be procured following existing local ccmpetitive bidding (LCB)
procedures which operate under the ongoing projects and are acceptable to
IDA. Drugs would be procured on the basis of long term contracts with
producing companies to ensure brand continuity, essential under a more
liberal drug administration regime. These contracts would be awarded
according to Bank guidelines for ICB. Contracts of US$150,000 or more for
Imported vehicles and equipment (US$8.7 million) would also be awarded
through ICB. Contracts between US$50,000 and US$150,000 equivalent would
be procured through existing LCB procedures. For contracts under US$50,000
each, mainly involving small equipment, direct procurement on the basis of
at least three quotations would be allowed. The services of the
internationally recruited technical assistance personnel (US$5.4 million)
would be obtained according to IDA or cofinancier guidelines, based on the
source of financing. The following table summarizes the procurement
arrangements.
Prolect Element                          Procurement Method  1/
ICB      LCB     Other         N.A       Total
Cost
---------------US$ million------------------
Civil Works                  -         5.7        -          -          5.7
-       (0.1)      _          -         (0.1)
Vehicles and Equipment      8.0        0.5       0.2 21      -          8.7
(1.8)     (0.2)       -          -         (2.0)
Technical Assistance         -          -        5.4 21      -          5.4
-         -       (3.2)                  (3.2)
Training and Studies         -          -        2.7                    2.7
-         -       (2.5)        -         (2.5)
Drugs                       3.9         -         -          -          3.9
(2.6)       -         -          -         (2.6)
Operating Costs              -          -        0.2 2/     7.9 21      8.1
(5.5)      (5.5)
Subloans                     -          -         -         2.0        2.0
(2.0)      (2.0)
PPF                          -          -         -         0.7         0.7
-         -         -        (0.7)       (0.7)
TOTAL                11.9       6.2        8.5       10.6       37.2
(4.4)     (0.3)     (5.7)      (8.2)      (18.6)
1/  Amounts in brackets concern IDA financing.
2/ Includes amounts for items financed by other donors under their
own procedures.



- 27 -
D. Disbursements
74.       All disbursements from the IDA Credit would be fully documented,
except for contracts valued at less than US$5,000 equivalent, for which
disbursement would be made against certified Statements of Expenditure and
the documentation would be retained for review by Bank supervision missions
and project auditors. The IDA Credit (US$18.6 million) would be disbursed
over a seven-year period (Annex 15). The rate of disbursement is assumed
to follow that of the Bank standard disbursement profile for area
development projects in the West African region, since it more accurately
reflects the project inputs than the profile for livestock projects in the
region, which are heavily ranch-oriented. Below is a sumiary for the
disbursement schedule by major categories:
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount         Percentage
MgS million)   Financed bv IDA
Civil Works                                0.1            100
Vehicles and Equipment                     2.0            100
Technical Assistance                       2.6            100
Training                                   1.6            100
Studies                                    0.5            100
Drugs                                      2.3            100
Operating Costs                            5.0      On a declining scale 1/
Subloans                                   1.8            100
PPF Refund                                 0.7          Amount due
Unallocated                                2.0
Total                              18.6
1/  Operating costs would be financed at 100% for the first 2.0 million.
In line with expected increases in revenues from cost recovery, it
would then decline to 90X for the subsequent US$1.6 million and and
80% for the final US$1.4 million.
E. Production, Financial Implications. Benefits and Risks
75.       Incremental Production.  Incremental production resulting from
project activities and policy conditions is very tentatively estimated in
PY7 at 2,000 tons of meat and 1,000 tons of milk valued at about US$3
million, and at 20,000 tons of meat and 40,000 tons of milk in PY20 at a
value of US$50 million. The national herd would increase from 3.7 million
to 4.2 million in PY20 as against 3.9 million without project. This
incremental production is brought about by a decrease in the mortality rate
and an increase in the fertility rate resulting from the project's animal
health activities. The m3jority of the incremental meat production is
expected to be exported to Nigeria, where market prospects are good (Annex



- 28 -
16). Present world market prices are US$2.50 per kg and, according to the
latest Bank projections, are expected to be at the same level by 1995 in
constant 1985 prices, which compares very favorably with the prevailing
price of US$1.20 per kg used In the economic analysis.
76.       Financial Implications for the Government.  The project would
reduce overall government financing needs of MEHP recurrent expenditures by
US$120,000, at the same time greatly enhancing MEHP's operational
capability, as shown in the following table:
MEHP Recurrent Expenditure Budget as a Result of Proiect Interventions
(US$ '000)
Year                                   1988                1994
Without       With
Proiect      Proiect
Salaries                              1,100        1,900 2l  /  1,400 1/
Pluss Recurrent Costs                   140          180 1       940 31
Minus: Income from Cost Recovery         20           30 l         410
Net Requirement from Government       1,220        2,050        1,930
i/  At 5X inflation rate.
21  Assuming staff increase of 20 graduates per year.
3!   See Annex 17 for details.
As a result, the ratio between salary and non-salary operating costs,
presently at 90:10 would change to about 60:40, thus providing existing
staff with greatly Improved means to operate.   This would include
resources to maintain activities started under the project and correct the
present severe underfunding of non-salary operating costs for other
activities. Under this scenario net reoquirements from Government would
increase over the 6 year period by 7.52 yearly. If Government would not
contribute the required increase in non-salary operating cost and increase
its contribution at the inflation rate, the ratio would still be an
acceptable 75:25. In investments, an average of US$0.6 million per year
would be necessary, especially to replace vehicles and equipment regularly.
This could partly be financed out of the above mentioned savings, but could
also be the object of continued external financing. More information on
the project's impact on Government revenue and expenditure is provided in
Annex 17.
77.       Furthermore, the proposed export tax simplification would most
likely increase future revenues. At the present average tariff rate of 14%
on the FOB value, the theoretical gross revenue from fees, taxes and export
duties on live animals is about US$12 million per year. Actual revenue
over the 1982-1986 period amounts to only US$1 million per year, or less



- 29 -
than 10 of the theoretical yield, thus leaving considerable scope for
improvement. While the project would not be involved directly in improving
the recovery rate, the proposed tax simplification and possible reduction
in tax per head would greatly facilitate such an increase in recovery.
78.       Benefits.  The principal benefit of the project would be a more
appropriate policy and institutional framework for input delivery,
extension and marketing for the Chadian livestock sector. This would
translate into the incremental production and government revenue estimated
above. The project would benefit a large part of the pastoral and mixed
farmer population through its animal health improvement actions, which in
other countries have yielded early and good returns. Better resource
management through the organization of pastoral associations and the
definition of better land tenure policies would improve the survival of
livestock during future droughts. Other not readily quantifiable project
benefits would include improved MEHP capabilities for its planning and
extension tasks and enhanced responsibility of private producers in the
management of the sector.
79.       Prospects for satisfactory returns are good. Projects in the
Central African Republic (Cr.894-CA), Senegal (Cr.633-SE) and Zaire (Credit
697-ZR) with similar interventions in animal health and pastoral
organization resulted in increased meat production, yielded ex-post
economic rates of return (ERR) between 13% and 30X, and successfully built
alternative input delivery systems (Annex 8). Due to the paucity of
reliable data on livestock production coefficients in Chad, a conventional
economic analysis leading to the ERR would not be trustworthy. The
technical, climatological and logistic factors affecting the project are
such that key development parameters like fertility and mortality rates, to
which the project level of profitability is highly sensitive, can only be
estimated with a large degree of uncertainty. For example, a tentative
estimate showed that a one point variation of the calving rate (which has a
standard error of five points) from 60 to 61X, caused a five point
variation in a roughly estimated ERR (from 191 to 241) other assumptions
remaining unchanged. Reliance on the ERR approach would therefore provide
false confidence in justifying the project.
80.       The project is therefore justified on the basis of an alternative
target-type analysis in which the feasibility of attaining a specified
level of incremental production during the project life is studied. Since
incremental costs are known with relative certainty, the approach followed
attempts to estimate implied production levels without prior knowledge of
detailed production parameters. An assumption is made on the incremental
capital-output ratio (ICOR) for the project under two scenarios of 'drought
occurrence". Under each scenario, an ICOR of 3 (very good), 4 (good), and
5 (satisfactory) is examined on its implied increase in cattle offtake, and
the feasibility of attaining this offtake. The following indicates that a
5X increase in offtake would be sufficient to obtain a satisfactory
performance. Based on the herd model, the implied production level would



- 30 -
be attained by PY7 if there is no drought and with a two-year lag if a
drought were to occur.
ICOR             Implied Incremental    Production Target Reached by year
TLU/sear          (wlo drought) (with drought)
No.    X
Satisfactory (5)     29,000    5                  7              9
Good  (4)            34,000    6                  8             10
Very Good (3)        44,000    8                 10              12
An ICOR of 3 demands an 82 incremental offtake (or 44,000 TLU per annum).
This level should be reached by PYIO (or PY12 with droughts, assumed to
occur every seven years). Therefore the offtakes associated with the
satisfactory and good performance are estimated achievable within a
reasonable time-horizon, considering the time usually needed to achieve
substantial changes in herd composition and yields, with further
improvements thereafter.
81.       Equity Considerations.  The project is expected to have a
positive impact on the poorer strata and the women producers. The
improvement of animal health has shown in Bank and other projects to
benefit directly the poorer strata, sometimes even proportionally more than
the wealthier strata. Furthermore, the creation of herder associations and
the producer training component would lead to greater participation of all
producers and not only the wealthiest in the development of their sector.
The project would also increase milk production, which benefits especially
the women who depend on the income from dairy products for their own
expenses.
82.       Risks.  The main risks are a lack of motivation of MEHP field
staff and an early or frequent recurrence of drought. These risks are
mitigated by a well-defined technical assistance input in key posts and a
sizeable training component. The heavy emphasis on producer groups and the
national coverage of the project, which would foster interaction between
the dry north and the humid south and would render the subsector less
vulnerable to drought. Failure to achieve adequate donor coordination
might constitute another risk, which would be allayed through specific
donor coordination activities and through a strengthening of Government's
coordinating capabilities.
83.       Environmental Considerations.  The project would be expected in
the longer term to make a positive contribution to stop or reverse resource
degradation. The policy and herder associations components would attempt
to introduce a more rational rangeland use through improved land tenure
regulations and the strengthening of traditional internal discipline in
resource conservation. The water development component would attempt to
improve the planning of new water points, with special regard to the
carrying capacity of the land.



- 31 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
84.       At negotiations, agreement was reached with Governmesn; that:
(a) HEHP would, on the basis of more precise cost calculations by the
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, yearly adjust the charges
for non-compulsory vaccinations and clinical interventions,
reflecting the full costs of these interventions (para 44);
(b) the revenue from the charges for services rendered by MEHP
would be deposited in a Special Account, to be used thereafter
only against non-salary operating costs of MEHP (par. 44);
(c) not later than July 31, 1988, Government would reorganize MAGAVET
and all veterinary products would be sold by MAGAVET at their
real prices (para 45);
(d) MAGAVET's import monopoly for veterinary pharmaceuticals would be
abolished by January 1, 1991 and the eligibility criteria for
companies authorized to import veterinary pharmaceuticals
published by that date (para 45);
(e) Government would maintain during the first five years of the
project, the number of MEHP's staff at the level of January 1,
1988 (para 47);
(f) Government would prepare, in close consultation with IDA, a
Psotoral Land Use Policy aimed at long term resource
conservation, and promulgate such policy by December 31, 1990
(para 48);
(g) Government would open the possibility for qualified MEHP -gents
to take leave without pay and participate in the vaccinat. n
campaign on a contractual basis (par. 53);
(h)  Government would maintain its budgetary contribution to MEHP's
operating expenditures at the present level of CPAP 40 million
per year (para 66);
(i) the posts of National Project Director, Director of MAGAVET and
Chief of the Pastoral Organization Unit would be always filled
with personnel with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA (par. 67);
(j) Government would fill all Technical Assistance posts with
personnel with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA
(para 67); and



- 32 -
(k)  MI3HP and MAGAVET would submit to IDA, within six months of the
close to the fiscal year, an annual audit report of all project
related accounts and statements of expenditure prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and MEHP would prepare
trlmestral and annual progress reports on the project and a
Project Completion Report of a format and level of detail
acceptable to IDA (para 72).
85.       Conditions of Credit effectiveness would bet
(a) the publication of MAGAVET's revised statutes (para 45);
(b) the recruitment of the Project Coordinator (para 67);
(c) the ADF Credit effectiveness (para 71) and;
(d) the FAC agreement to recruit the Hydrogeologist and the Training
Specialist (para 71).
86.       RECOMMENDATION.  With the above agreements the project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$18.6 million.



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The Sociolotical Context
The Family
Pastoral livestock production in Chad is practiced almost
exclusively by three ethnic groups, the Toubous in the north and west, the
Arabs in the center and east, and the Fulani in the south and southeastern
part of the country. Family size varies according to the group. The
Toubous and Fulani have small families (6-7 persons) with 30-50 head of
cattle and 10-20 sheep and goats. The Arabs usually have bigger families
(10-12 persons) but smaller herds of 10 to 30 heads of cattle or camels and
some small ruminants. The monetary budget of a family varies from CFAF
30,000 to CFAF 350,000 per year. Actual income and wealth varies greatly
over time. Younger pastoralists, recently separated with their share of
cattle from the family herd, own only a few animals and build their herds
as their families grow. Such herd increment can be completely disrupted by
periodic droughts when, especially for the sedentary herds, losses of up to
90% can occur.
Movements
Seasonal movements are dictated principally by water
availability. From mid-July to mid-September, the northern Sahelian areas
with high quality pasture and abundant surface water are used. At the end
of the rainy season, when surface water and grass dries up, the herders are
forced to migrate south, initially still in areas with low population
density but, increasingly into denser populated areas. Especially the
Fulani proceed even farther, passing through the populated areas at the
southern fringe of the Sahel or to the almost empty southwestern part of
the country. Normally, the same trek routes and grazing areas are
frequented each year, and user rights on wells and surrounding areas have
evolved for particular groups. During a drought, all movements recoil
200-300 km to the South and general turmoil develops as new water points
and dry season grazing areas have to be identified. Losses occur in such
situations, frequently not only directly from lack of feed, but also
indirectly because of the unfamiliarity of the herders with the grazing
availability in such new areas. After a drought, normal (predrought)
transhumant patterns are rapidly reestablished.
Social Structures
The social structures, practically identical in the three ethnic
groups, are well adapted to the mobility and periodic dispersion of the
group members. The tribal hierarchy consists of three levels. At the
highest level there are approximately 50 so-called cantons (tribes) with
their traditional chieftains. This chieftain is in Chad still frequently
appointed by the central Government and efficiently used afterwards for tax
collection. A canton consists of 10-50 smaller fractions (clans) led by a



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
fraction chief. The fraction, though registered by the Government, is not
directly associated by the pastoralists with Government interference or tax
collection, and would therefore be well-suited to be the key grouping to
develop into pastoral associations under the project. A fraction generally
consists of 1-10 compounds; these compounds are the basic migratory unit,
and through their size (5-20 families) and herd size (500-2000 animals)
would be well suited as the nucleus to involve in animal health care. More
information on the sociological context are presented in the Project File.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock and Feed Resources
Chad's approximately 3.7 million TLU have about 70 million ha
grazing land and 40,000 tons of agricultural by-products at their disposal.
The zonal distribution of these feed resources is given below:
Zone              Pasture Area       Dry Matter    Actual         Actual
(million ha)       (Tonlha)      Total      Stocking Rate
OOO'TLU        ha/TLU
Saharan                 50               0.0-0.5       60            830
Sahelian                32               0.5-4.0     1700              19
Sahelo-Sudanian         23               0.6-6.0     1400              16
Sudanian                15               1.0-8.0      630             34
The carrying capacity for each of the zones is estimated in the
following table:
Zone                     Carrying Capacity             Potential Population
Normal Yr.      Drought Yr.      Normal Yr   Drourht Yr
haITLU             ha/TLU       000 TLU         000 TLU
Saharan               200                 1000            250            50
Sahelian               20                   50           2600           640
Sahelo-Sudanian Zone    8                   15           2900           1500
Sudanian Zone           4                    6           3750          2500
Total           8500          4690
Compared with the present situation, this results in the
following zonal imbalances:
Zone                     Normal Year                    Drought Year
000 TLU                       000 TLU
Saharan                     +290                             -10
Sahelian                    -100                           -1060
Sahelo-Sudanian            +1500                            +100
Sudanian                   +3120                           +1970
+4710                          +1000
This quantitative assessment showing a relative underutilization,
especially of the Sudanian zone, differs considerably from the situation in
other Sahelian countries and is confirmed by the following qualitative
observations:
(a) the Sahelian and Sahelo-Sudanian zones visited by the appraisal
mission did not show any sign of deterioration; to the contrary,



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
a 10-15Z under exploitation was estimated; the observed
vegetation changes were due to the effect of the recent droughts
(tree mortality especially) independent of any livestock
pressure;
(b)  in the Chadian Sahelo-Sudanian zone there is a relative abundance
of gazelles and elephants, indicating the availability of
adequate feed for other graziers;
(c)  the massive shift of Arab pastoralists to the Southwest following
the 1983 drought did not cause any major land conflict with other
groups, indicating even in that period a relatively low pressure
on the resources; and
(d)  all pastoralists met during the appraisal mission recognized
scarce feed resources as a problem only during drought but denied
that quality or quantity was a problem during normal or slightly
rain deficient years.
Crop/Livestock Integration
Because of the relatively low livestock and human population
pressure, there is less symbiosis between the two activities than in other
Sahelian countries. This is shown in the low (+0.2) correlation
coefficient between cropping density and livestock density (1985 data per
province); indeed, some of the provinces with the highest livestock density
(Batha, Salamat) show the lowest cropping intensities. Individual areas of
crop/livestock integration do exist, however. For example, just south of
the 130 Lat. a band of intensive permanent cropping exists, with livestock
extensively used for providing natural fertilizer.
Future Development
Although there is little permanent overgrazing in Chad, future
policies should already aim at developing resource conservation programs.
This would mean modifying the existing land tenure policy, giving exclusive
user rights (and therefore an interest in conservation for a rangeland
area) to a particular group and the development of better range management
techniques, like, for example, (i) the centripetal method, where grazing at
the beginning is started far away from the well, grazing closer to the well
being reserved for the hotter dry season when animals are weaker; (ii) the
reseeding of rangelands with species which have disappeared; (iii) some
degree of fire and bush cutting control; and (iv) deferred grazing of a
certain area in the wet season to permit better setting of seed. The
project would aim for a closer integration of crops and livestock,
especially through a better use of crop residues, and the introduction of
agroforestry. In the more humid areas project research would focus on: (a)
fodder banks, a low input system to grow on a 1-4 ha plot highly nutritive
leguminous forages for the dry season to increase animal production and
soil fertility for subsequent crop yields; and (b) alley farming where the
leaves of trees planted in rows are used on a rotational basis as a source
of natural fertilizer for crops or as a source of highly nutritional feed
for livestock.



- 37 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Rezulations Affectint Marketing and Export of Cattle
.The following regulations were identified:
1.    Livestock Traders Licence
According to the Finance Law 1985, art.74, all livestock traders
are classified as Class A and have to pay a licence fee according to the
following subclasses.
Export Traders
Herds of Cattle per Year             Subclass
Over 800                               A3
400-800                                A4
Less than 400                          AS
National Traders                         AS
The licence fee is as follows:
Licence Fee for Traders (CFAP)
Subclass           Fixed Fee                         Variable Fees       Total
Outside    Chamber    Social
NDIamena a/ NDTamens   Commerce  Security   MRPP k/   FIR gI
AS       117,6W          -       8,180    11,706    86,16      480       172,470
-       106,6W      7,3W      16,606    81,50     4W0       164,830
A4        81,86          -       5,783     8,180    24,570    480        120,878
-        70,200     4,914     7,020     21,060    480       108,674
AS        52,860         -       8,580     5,265    16,796    480         7,878
-        86,1W      2,4S7     8,610    10,686     480        62,077
Not.: Export Traders must also be registered at the Ministry of Justice and pay a fee.
a) Otficially also in force in 15 other communities, but practically only In N'Djamena.
b) Income Tax.
c) Rural Interventions Fund.
2. SOTERA Export Licence
SOTERA issues the administrative clearance to authorize the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry to provide the export permit. SOTERA
asks a payment of CFAF 1,000 per cattle, CFAF 2,000 per camel and CFAF 300



-38 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
per sheep or goat for the service to issue this authorization. This
authorization has only been issued to SOTERA shareholders (CFAP
5000-12,500), and other traders have to buy these rights from the
shareholders. More reeently they can buy the licence officially from
SOTERA at CFAF 1,250, but this measure does not seem to be implemented.
*3.   Export Permit
The export permit then issued by the Ministry of Commerce costs
CFAF 5,000 for a 6-month period.
4.   Market Tax
According to the Law of Licence of 1984, market taxes are levied
on all transactions in the livestock market (export included). The
District Commissioner collects this tax, which goes directly into the
Treasury. The following levels are imposed since January 1984:
CPAF
Steers                         2,000
Heifers and Cows               1,000
Camels                         3,000
Horses                         3,000
Goats and Sheep                  200
Pigs                           1,000
Donkeys                          300
Other costs at the market include: (a) a sum to guarantee the
animal's origin; (b) the cost of the intermediary; and (e) a tax for the
local village government of CFAF 200-300 per animal.
5.  National Health Certificate
This certificate is issued by the Livestock Service for cattle
for the domestic market against a fee of CFAF 2,500 per herd plus CFAF 100
per animal.
6.   International Health Certificate
According to Decree 21 (Jan. 31, 1985, signed by MEHP and MINFIN)
this certificate is issued against a payment of CFAF 10,000 per herd and
CFAF 350 per animal. Additionally, the export trader has to pay SOTERA a
vaccination fee of CFAF 1,500 (real cost approximately CFAF 300), and
MAGAVET a Trypanosomiasis treatment of CPA? 350 (real cost CFAF 150) per
animal.
7.   Export Tax
The amount of export tax is determined on the basis of an
official average value fixed by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of
Economy. (Article 27 of the Customs Law). Present values date from March
13, 1984 (Decree No. 22).



39 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Value per      Export       Business
Animal        Tax  a/        Tax bi        Total
Oxon and Bulls           35,000       2,800          1,134         3,934
Cows                     30,000       2,400            972         3,376
Sheep                     5,000          400           162           562
Goats                     3,500         280            113           393
Dried Meat per kilo         300            -             9             9
a/ 8% of official value of animal
bI 3S of official value of animal and tax.
8.   Debt Reiasment Tax
An additional 101 export tax on the official average value is
levied to repay the external debt through the Amortization Fund.
9.   Yellow Earmarks
Yellow earmarks are provided by SOTERA for all animals having
complied with the above regulation. While officially free, high prices are
paid for these earmarks by illegal export traders.



CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Ministry of Livestock & Water Development (MEHP)
Organigram
Miniter
State
Secretary
BIEP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rDirector|
G3eneral
DEPARTMENT          Director of                                          Director of
Livestock                                           Lvestock            Administration
Training.&                            Production &          Department
SUB-DEPARTMENT        National              Aimal           Amal          Project ii                     Tse-tse   1
School         ~~Health      Production     Moritoring &       urtCntro UnitI
for Livestock           Service        Service     Evaluation Unit
Persomuel.
(ENATE)
LIVESTOCK PARASTATAL ORGANIZATION
Key
StEP  bIteermb toreal                                                                                Chad Society      National
Office for StuArimaleGeneral
&Poam                Society for     Production     Veneraly        Research      Ref rigerated   for Developing    Offies for
,Not OetInlHides & Skins                  Society       DitbOr         Laboratory      Abattol         Animnal         Water
Processing*    (SONAPA)       (MAGAfET)        Farcha                       Resources     Development
(SOTERA)        ONHPV
ksr/w41457a



41                                          Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
NAGNVET
A. TUAL  CASH  FLOIW
(CFAF)
1985        199          1997
1.  OPERAtING COSTS
1.  Salaries                                 9759453     940406    10424706
2.  Social Security                           938877      1155451     1200000
3.  Office Supplies                           437230      8812qO       981390
4.  Water/Electricity                              0      250132       618972
5.  Publicity                                1691363      1991853     1998763
6. Postal Charges                             494745      580125       680925
7.  Taxes                                     181300      1845224     1687384
8.  Interest                                  446415      395018       494617
9. Operating costst vehicules                2995517     5846505      6799115
10. hit. Expenses                                 0     4526910      3144703
11. Other salary chaeges                      538678     269U861      2806986
12. Representations                                0       67242       112387
Sub-Total              17492578    29706342    30939948
11. DEPRECIATION/AMORTIZATION
1. Buildings                                 1623068     1681763      1681763
2. Naterials and equipsent                    359323      954599       954599
3. Vehicles.                                l1010417    10110417    10110417
Sub-Total              12092808    12746779    12746778
111. DRUS PURCHASES
Vettrinary Druqs                         9204809    01489759    82500000
TOTAL COSTS             122090195   12394279  126196726
IV. SALES
1. Trypanocides/other cheimtherapeutica   79735?0    48606796    01163185
2. Insecticides                              7865505     7773700    10471435
3. Antiheleintics                            9669710     9279350    10309170
4. Antibiotics                              11445201    1h92214(0    13196775
5. Niscellaneous                            10277765    11614867    10578923
TOTAL SALES             118730771    ?8096SS3   12571950B
tlET BENEFIT             -3349424   -35846026      -467219
f    -  ---   -  ---.-.- - --_



-42-                                         Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
CHA
National Liventock ProJect
Projecteod Cash Flou - NASAVET
(in million FCFA)
--------- YEA----
1           2            3            4           5
1. Operating Costs:
Salaries                   12.5         15.0         17.5        20.0         22.5
Other charges               7.0          8.3         11.3        13.2         17.3
Travel allowance            3.1          3.8         4.4          5.0          5.6
katerials/supplies          3.9          5.2          6.3         6.6          6.6
Taxen
52 salaries               0.6          0.8         0.9          1.0          1.1
152 sales                34.9         40.7        47.6         S5.6         65.0
Financing charges           0.6          0.8          1.0         1.2          1.4
Vehicles                    7.5          7.5          7.5         7.5          7.5
Buildings                   0.2          0.2         0.2          0.2          0.2
Sub Total              70.2        82.2         96.6        110.3        127.3
11. Drugs                       145.9        173.6        203.1       237.5        277.9
Sub Total             145.9        173.6       203.1        237.5       277.9
III. Amortization
Vehicles (332)              9.9          9.9         9.9          9.9          9.9
Equipmnt (12.5X)            2.6          2.6          2.6         2.6          2.6
kuildings                   1.6          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9
Sub Total               14.1         14.4        14.4         14.4         14.4
TOTAL                 230.2       270.2        314.1        362.2       419.6
tV. Receipts                    232.0        271.2       317.1        370.7        433.6
Bross Benefit               1.9          1.0         3.0          8.5         14.0
Taxi 502 of benefit         O.9          0.5         1.5          4.2          7.0
Net Benefit                 0.9          0.5          1.5         4.3          7.0
V.    Overhead M2)              159.0        156.2        156.1       156.1        156.0



- 43 -                       Anm1L_x
Page 3 of 3
Profitability of MAGAVET
The cash flow projections of MAGAVET show that MAGAVET could be made
self-financing through a policy of cost containment coupled with sales
Increase. The assumed sales increase (details In the Project File) is
based on a ten-percent annual increase In the sale of antibiotics and
vaccines, and a twenty percent annual increase in anthelmaintices,
trypanocides and acaricides. These assumptions are modest; the resulting
total consumption in PY5 is, at CFAF 80 per TLU per year, still about 50Z
below the average actual consumption in the Region and the envisaged
tripling of sales volume hss been amply achieved In other countries of the
Region, for example in the Bank-financed project in the CAR (Annex 8). The
resulting overhead margin hovers around 55. This is in line with
experience in other countries. Individual rates for wholesale and retail
transactions would vary over time; a 602 difference between retail and
wholesale price is necessary to make the private pharmacies viable and
would be maintained by MAGAYET. The wholesalelretail ratio would determine
the actual margins for each category.



-44-                                                Annex 6
CHAD                                                Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
External Assistance to Livestock Sector
261161         ANMOUT              ARMA CF             PERIOD                    ODWECTIVE
INTEMWTION
omING fPOECTS
Suoport to the farcha            FAC       ff 2.5 *illion    Farcha Laborat.   1966-67              Technical assisttncu  to the Viro-
laboratory                                 pr year                                                  logy and Rango Nnageunnt Dept.
Rehabilitation of Farcha        CCCE        Ff 3.8 nillion    Fucrna Abatoir    1906-87             looroving slaughterhouse
abatoir
Rinderpnst Vaccination            FAD       185 000            Country             1965-97          Protettion of national herd
Ceepaign                          FAC       FF 6.5 sillion                                          against Rinderpest and C0PP
OlF      ECU 1.5 sillion
Technical Assistance              FAC      FF 1 sillion        WE)P                Ongoing          Provision ot Advice to the Ninister
to EmP                                      per ytar                                                of Liventock
Liventock Census                  FAC      FF .6 *illion       NENP/BIEP           1986-87          lWproveen t of data base on Chaian
livestock oroduction
Rehabilitation of SNWIAPA        IlIAC      CFAF 500 sill.    SONAPA               198-618          leprovent of concentrate sixing
DIanana                             and dairy facilities
Anisal  ealth and pas-            ElF       ECU 3.9 sill.      Kanne               1S85-98          Rehabilitation of veterinary posts.
toral eater                                                      ath                                weils, and creation of two pastoral
associations
Pastoral and Village              FAC       FF 1.5 million    MNHY                 Ongoing          Assistance to ONCPV. to isprove its
Water progras                                                                                       techniCal Capacity
Pastoral and Village           Saudi       * 10.2 sill.        Sahalian            1985-68          Rehabilitation of 140 wells
Water progras                Dvelcpaent                        lone                                 STZ exeKuted
Fund



45 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Water devellopeent             UNDP      t 1.5 million      Ou4ddai             1986-S        Constrution of 40 .ll and
techuical auistance to OMHYP
Sudmnian lone Prooras           FAC       fF 1.5 oiilion    Noyen-ChaVi         1915-8S        Aid to Animal Health Defenste
per veer          Logonn                            6OroU"
Sahalian zone Prograu           FAC      FF 2.5 million    Cheri-              1994-88         Agricultural and Livestock
per year          lagurmi                            activities
ENATE                           FAC       FF 1 million      EWATE               1995-98        Training of Livestock agents,
per vear          h' Diamena                         Advisor to the Director
Basic Animal Health             6Tl       DN 2 sillion      Ouddai              1986-90        Training and provision ot basic
stok of drugs to 160 auxilliarams
Herders Associations           OXFAN      CFAF 250 *ill      Bath#              19N7-;.)       Creation of 50 assoCiatitons
PIPELINE PROJECTS
Aqric. Rehab. Project           ID4       $ 3.5 million     Country            1987-93         Livnetock  uarketing study,assist.
(livest. c0up.)                                      to NEWP in olanning, Village Water
Rehabilitation of Farcha       CCCE       CF4F 400 mill.    Farcuta             198-90         Phase 13 of Slaughterhouse
abatoir II                                                                                     reMhb. iequipunnt and Techn. Ass.)
Rehabilitation of Farcha        ADF      CFAF 600 mill,    Farcha              1988-90         Phase II of Rohabilition
abatoir                                                                                        fintfrastucture)
Pasture nonitoring Prog.        FC        FF 7 nil ion      Around              1987-90        Pasture monitoring prog.



46 -
Annox 7
Page I of 4
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Letter of IntigMIon on Livestock Develomient Policy
Introduction
1.        The Goverrment of Chad attaches a great Importance to the
development of the livestock sector. In the Policy Framework Paper,
formulated In March 1987 In close cooperation between Governmont, IDA and
IMF, the Government expressed its intention to Initiate a program of
reforms, anmed at establishing a policy and institutional environment
conducive to the rapid development of the sector. It is the purpose of
this letter to detail these reforms as a basis for a comprehensive set of
institution building and investment activities envisaged under the proposed
National Livestock Project. Tho Government requests to this offect a
cofinancing of IDA, ADF, FAC and DGIS.
2.        The basic aime of these reforms are to Increase national
livestock production, producer income and Government revenue on a
sustaiamble basis. This would be achieved by improving the supply of key
inputs, facilitating the smarketing and export of surpluses, enhancing the
effectiveness of the public sector, and improving the long-term
sustainability of land use.
3.        The particular areas in which the Government intends to introduce
substantial policy roforms are the followings
(a) beneficiary contribution In animal health services;
(b) import and distribution of veterinary pharmacouticals;
(c) elimination of present constraints to livestock and corresponding
regulationsl
(d) public sector staffing levels; and
(e) land use and resource conservation policies.
I. Soneficiarv Contribution
4.        In order to improve the availability of clinical and preventive
veterinary services and enhance the officiency and sustainability of MEHP's
field operations, the Government wills
(a) introduce full cost recovery for all clinical treatments and
non-compulsory vaccinations provided by its own services; the
Government endeavors to introduce such a system not later than
the dato the National Livostock Project would be presented to the
Board of the Association;
(b) introduce recovery of the marginal costs (non-salary recurrent
costs) of the compulsory vaccinations not later than May 31,
1990; and



- 47 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
(c) encourage and facilitate the voluntary transfer of MEHP agents to
private veterinary practice, inter alia by allowing them leave
without pay for a period of up to two years to test the
feasibility of a private operation, by contracting them for the
compulsory vaccination campaigns and by providing credits
permitting them to establish themselves privately.
II. Import and Distribution of VeterinarZ Pharmaceuticals
5.        A reliable supply of good quality veterinary pharmaceuticals is
essential for a rapid growth of the livestock sector. To achieve this, the
Goverrment intends to liberalize and privatize the import and distribution
of veterinary drugs and other inputs. More specifically, the Government
will:
(a) transform with immediate effect the general distributor of the
Veterinary Products, MAGAVET, into a company open to private
investors and by July 31, 1988, abolish all direct and indirect
subsidies to MAGAVET; the invitation to private investors will
be published before Board presentation of the project; the
revised statutes will be published before Credit effectiveness;
(b) publish at regular intervals lists of non-prescription and
prescription drugs authorized for import and distribution,
defined on the basis of common veterinary practice, especially in
Africa;
(c) authorize all interested persons to sell authorized
non-prescription veterinary drugs freely; the National Livestock
Project would institute a training program for such people;
(d) authorize qualified veterinarian agents to sell authorized
prescription and non-prescription drugs; the nature of the
qualifications required of these agents was communicated to IDA
for review before negotiations of the National Livestock Project;
and
(e) authorize, not later than January 1, 1991, the importation of
veterinary pharmaceuticals by all companies, fulfilling a number
of criteria, which will be agreed upon between the Government of
Chad and IDA, and will be published in Chad, through the
appropriate channels, before Credit effectiveness.
TII. Export Circuits
6.        To help market future incremental production and increase its
revenue from the sector, the Government intends to substantially reform the
institutional and regulatory framework governing livestock exports. In
particular, the Government will:



- 48 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
(a)  abolish all export quotas for male animals, restricting only the
export of reproductive females;
(b)  abolish the monopoly on the export of meat and livestock on hoof
held by the Chadian Company for the Exploitation of Animal
Resources (SOTERA) by changing Art.3 of Order/PCSM/544 and of
Decree 125/PCSM/544 respectively; and
(c)  simplify the livestock export procedures by:
(i) centralizing the granting of export licensea and the customs
and health formalities each in one Government agency; the
Government will inform IDA on the choice of the respective
agencies before Board presentation of the National Livestock
Project;
(ii) increasing the number of border posts authorized to issue
export licenses and handle the customs and health
formalities;
(iii) extending the validity of the livestock trading permit
delivered by the Ministry of Finance from six months to one
year and abolishing the registration at the Ministry of
Justice;
(iv) abolishing the export authorization provided by SOTERA;
(v) abolishing the export licence delivered by the Ministry of
Commerce;
(vi) incorporating the export and business taxes and the tax
levied for the Caisse d'Amortissement into one export tax;
and
(vii) abolishing the cattle earmarks or linking them to the
delivery of the international health certificate.
The Government has forwarded draft modified export regulations
(including the Decree concerning export quotas and SOTERA's statutes) to
IDA for review during Negotiations of the National Livestock Project, and
will publish the modified regulations prior to the presentation of this
project to IDA's Board of Directors.
IV. Public Sector Staffing Levels
7.        The Government recognizes that staff resources of the Ministry of
Livestock and Rural Water Supply are inefficiently used because of
inadequate budgetary resources for recurrent expenditures and a rapid
increase in staff numbers resulting from a policy of automatic admission of
all graduates applying for the Civil Service. The Government intends to
redress this situation by a policy of public revenue enhancement (para 4)



- 49 -                     Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
reinforced by a stabilization of total staff numbers at the present level
during the first five years of the Project.
V. Land Use and Conservation Policy
8.        The Government attaches a high priority to the conservation of
its rangeland resources and intends to develop policies aimed at promoting
sustainable land use and combatting desertification. The Government
intends therefore to develop, in close consultation with the pastoral
associations concerned, a Pastoral Land Use Policy, which would focus on
the use of pastoral water points as the pivotal instrument in range
management. The Pastoral Land Use Policy would allow (i) the transfer of
public wells (ownership and maintenance responsibility) to herder
associations; (ii) the harmonization of the establishment of new water
points with the carrying capacity of adjacent grazing; and (iii)
adjudication of exclusive grazing rights to specific areas, and use of
specific trek routes to herder associations, so that these associations can
be made responsible for the management of their own natural resources. The
Government will develop the required land use and land tenure legislation
in close consultation with IDA and will promulgate such legislation before
December 31, 1990.
For the Government of Chad
The Minister of Planning and Cooperation
Soumaila Mahamat
Washington
January 14, 1988



- 50 -                            Annex 7
Appendix 1
CHAD                              Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
POLICY REFORMS
Issue/Constraints         Proposed Poliev Measures          Timetable
A. Cost Recovery              1. Institution of a system of   1. Completed
Inadequate cost recovery      cost recovery covering full
and a monopoly on the admln-  cost for all non-compulsory
lstration of all veterinary  vaccinations and clinical
drugs by MEPM severely        treatments, and by May 31,1990
constrain animal care In      of the marginal costs for all
Chad.                         compulsory vaccinations.
2. Introduction of service
fees of CFAF 50 per head for
vaccinations and CFAP 300 per
head for clinical treatments,
and a system of yearly updates
through the M and E Unit.
3. Granting the option of
leave without pay and Govern-
ment contracts for agents
wanting to go private.
B. Iniut Mononolv
Scarcity of key veterinary    1. Revision of MAGAVET           1. Completed
drugs because of monopoly on  statutes, transforming it into
import and distribution of    a mixed company, and full
drugs by MAGAVET.             revision of legislation
concerning the sale of
prescription drugs and
non-prescription drugs.
2. Abolition of MAGAVET's        2. Abolition
monopoly.                        befcre Dec.31,
1990.
3. Abolition of all              3. Declaration
subsidied to MAGAVET.            of intention
before negotia-
tions, abolition
July 31, 1988.
C. Livestock Extort Policies
Severely constrained export   1. Abolition of all export       1. Completed.
of live cattle and meat and      quotas.
and large scale tax evasion
because of:
(a) monopoly of SOTERA        2. Changes to Art.3 of           2. Completed.
(b) export quotas far below  Ordinance/Ol/PCSM/599 of
actual export potential       Feb.23,1977 giving SOTERA
(c) complex administrative    the monopoly on meat export
and fiscal regulations.       and to Decree No.1251PCS41599
which entrusts SOTERA vith
the setting of export quota,
limits the distribution of such
quota to the private shareholders
of SOTERA, and allows the export
of live animals exclusively
through N'Djamena.



-51 -                            Annex 7
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
3. Simplification of export       3. Completed
procedures bys
a. Extending validity of
livestock licence from the
Ministry of Finance from
six months to one year and
abolishing the registration
at the Ministry of Justice.
b. Abolishing export authoriza-
tion of SOTERA.
c. Abolishing the export licence
of the Ministry of Commerce.
d. Replacing the National Health
Certificate with a vaccination
certificate.
e. Maintaining export tax, but
considering reducing the rate
as this might reduce tax evasion.
f. Incorporating the export and
business taxes and the tax
perceived by the Caisse
d'Amortissement into one export
tax.
g. Earmarks linked to the delivery
of the international health
certificate.
D.Inefficient use of staff    1.  Maintain staff at present        1.  Completed.
resources in MEHP, because         level.
of highly unfavorable salary/
recurrent funding ratio.
E. Resource degradation and   1. Development, in close consulta-  2.  Promulgation
land use.                         tation with IDA of a Pastoral        Before Dec.31,
land use policy, which would         1990.
allow the transfer of public
water points and adjacent
grazing areas to pastoral
associations.



52                    Annex 7
Appendix 2
Invitation to Participate in the Capital Increase of MAGAVET
(General Distributor of Veterinary Products and Materials)
MAGAVET, a public establishment, has presently the monopoly for the
import and distribution of veterinary products in Chad. MAGAVET's present
annual sales volume is about CFAF 125 million, with a total staff of 20.
A national livestock development project, to be carried out with the
assistance of IDA and several other donors, is expected to substantially
increase the demand for veterinary products to about CFAF 500 million at the
end of the project in 1993.
A drastic transformation of the sales and distribution system is
essential to satisfy this demand. The Government of Chad has therefore decided
to transform MAGAVET into a mixed company of which the capital could come for
about 50% from Chadian and foreign private investors. The capital requirements
and the expected profitability is being assessed by an external audit.
Tentatively a capital increase of CFAF 600 million over a 5 year period is
envisaged.
The new company will be protected till December 31, 1990 by MAGAVET's
actual monopoly, but will have to respect the commercial margins set by
Government. After December 31, 1990 the monopoly and the Government margins
will be abolished.
The contribution to the capital increase could be monetary or in kind
(pharmaceutical products, equipment). The form of the participation of the
eventual partners in MAGAVET's management would be defined in mutual agreement.
Companies or individuals interested in participating in MAGAVET are
requested to indicate so to the Minister of Livestock and Rural Water Supply,
indicating also, without any obligation from their side, the size and nature of
their eventual contribution.



53 _
Annex 8
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Experience with Pastoral Associations
The establishment of pastoral associations is an important
component of Bank-funded livestock development projects. While the initial
results in pastoral organization were disappointing, because of a
paternalistic approach to the pastoralists combined with a lack of
understanding of their production system, recent experiences in Senegal,
CAJV' and Zaire have been more successful.
In Senegal, under the Eastern Senegal Livestock Development
Project (Cr.633-SE), 51 pastoral units were formed and now successfully
manage their own distribution of veterinary drugs and their grazing areas
and water points, supported by an effective animal health program. At
project completion (1986), the project showed a significant effect on
production, the calving rate had increased and mortality had decreased,
causing cattle population to rise. Furthermore, there was tentative
evidence that in spite of a higher livestock population, the rangeland
ecology was improving. The ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) was
estimated at about 13%.
In the Central African Republic, the First Livestock Project
(Cr.894-CA), concentrated on pastoral organization at the national level;
grassroot level organization was initiated only on a pilot scale. Under
the project, the National Association of Central African Livestock
Producers (ANEC) was transformed into a viable, efficient distributor of
livestock inputs, as sales of veterinary drugs jumped from US$12,000 in
1982 to US$1 million in 1985. Surveys showed that these drugs benefited
the poor herders relatively more than the wealthy herders. ANEC organized
together with the Livestock Service an effective Rinderpest campaign which
limited losses on the 1983 outbreak to negligible levels. Furthermore,
ANEC is becoming an important factor in overall livestock development in
that country. At grassroot levels, about 50 herder associations were
established, who generally manage their veterinary pharmacies well.
Grazing rights are only recently being adjudicated to these associations,
and they have not yet been able to show whether they can lead to a more
rational range management. The overall economic return of this project was
good, the ex-post ERR was calculated to be about 30%.
In Zaire, the ITURI Livestock Development Project (Credit 697-ZR)
successfully established about 200 livestock owners associations and a
cooperative federation, which started to handle their own input
distribution, extension and livestock marketing. The ex-post ERR was
well above 15%. The Project Completion Report stresses that the
associations are still weak and require close and continuing attention,
which is being provided under the follow-up project.



- 54 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Private Animal Health Care
The project would aim at creating a private animal health care
system based on middle level livestock technicians rather than on
professional veterinarians. This because of the relative surplus of
technicians, their generally greater willingness to settle in more remote
areas and their greater interest in privatixation because of their low
present salary (CFAF 500,000 per year). They would cover an area of 30 km
radius, with a density of 10 ha per head, containing approximately 25,000
head of livestock. Present druig purchases of this population amount to
CFAF 30 per head, per year; following the experience in other countries,
this would be expected to jump to CFAF 400 per head after five years.
Two thousand non compulsory vaccinations are presently provided
on average per post. With a better vaccine availability, this would be
expected to double, and would be charged at CFAF 50 per head. Compulsory
vaccinations (Rinderpest and CBPP) would be carried out on contract with
NEHP (which would also provide the vaccine). Only calves would be
vaccinated (20% of the population, remaining constant) and provide an
income for the private agent of CFAF 25 per head vaccinated. Approximately
300 clinical treatments are presently carried out per post. A higher
mobility would allow this number to increase to 1,500 and each treatment
would be charged at CFAF 300. Loan conditions would include 122 interest,
three year grace, and repayment over 10 years. The following table
provides the cash flow of an individual agent over the first six years.
CASH OUTFLOW (000 CPA)        PYl     PY2     PY3     PY4      PY5     PY6
Vehicle                        600      -       -      600       -       -
Operating Costs                300     300     300     300      300     300
Veterinary Equipment           300      50      50      50       50      50
Drugs                         2000    3000    4000    5000    6000    6000
Housing                       1500      -      -       -        -       -
Loan Repayment                  -      444     444     814      814     814
TOTAL                    4700    3794    4794    6764    7164    7164
CASH INFLOW (000 CPA)
Drugs                         3200    4800    6400    8000    9600    9600
Non-compulsory vaccine.        125     150     175     200      200     200
Clinical Treatments            150     240     300     360      450     450
Rinderpest vaccination         125     125     125     125      125     125
Loan                          3700      -       -       -        -       -
TOTAL                    7300    5315    7000    8685   10375   10375
Income                       2600    1521    2206    1961    3211    3211



_ 55 _
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
The treatment fees perceived by private agents are the same as
the official fees that Government would introduce before Credit
offectivenoss. These fees are based on the relative time requirements and
costs of each operation calculated for an average livestock agent who
dedicates 502 of his tbme to aniual health tasks (502 being devoted to
other tasks), receives CPA? 500,000 per year in salary and incurs CFAF
500,000 per year in recurrent expenditures, including the vaccines.



_ 56 _
Annex 10
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Pro4ect Monitoring
MEHP's Project Management and Monitoring Unit would be
strengthened with a locally recruited zootechnician, a statistician, and an
agroeconomist, supported by the international recruitment of a zooeconomist
(two man-years) and a short-term consultant (a total of 5 man-months) in
monitoring and evaluation. Funds would also be provided for transport and
recruitment of short term enumerators. The monitoring method of this
project would consist of a combination of routine data collection in
representative herds and flocks and in-depth studies on specific topics.
Under the routine data collection, key parameters (herd composition,
calvings, deaths, home consumption and sales) and inputs (concentrate, drug
consumption and movements) would be recorded by MEHP field staff each three
to six months (depending on the production system). However, because of
the unreliability of herd data collection under the migratory system,
time-bound studies, with in-depth interviews of a small portion of the
target population on a specific topic, have proven to be an essential
additional tool in formulating and redirecting project strategies. The
budget for the monitoring unit amounts to US$600,000 or 22 of the total
project budget. Specific studies now envisaged, but to which other topLcs
would be added, are:
(a) Effectiveness of the drug distribution system. Drug
availability, prices, sources and actual usage (doses,
appropriateness of diagnosis) would be determined for the various
wealth strata of herders.
(b) MEHP Field Service - Producer interaction. The frequency of
contacts between livestock agent and herders and the quality of
the information transfer would be assessed.
(c) Herders perception of their organization. The perception of the
herders about herder associations and water point and resource
management would be assessed.
(d) Household economic studies in which recall studies on household
income, nutrition and expenditure would be repeated every two
years in families owning sample herds, to determine the
corresponding trends observed in various wealth strata.
(e) Livestock marketing to assess the effect of the policy and
institutional changes on marketing prices and flows.



57 _
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Technical Assistance
Despite being well staffed with qualified national veterinarians,
MMHP cannot furnish all key personnel required. The following long term
positions would be filled through international recruitment.
Duration      Financins Agency
(MY)
Project Coordinator                      5                 IDA
Training Specialist                       3                FAC
Zootechnician/Economist                  2                 IDA
Hydrogeologist                            3                FAC
Pastoral Organization Specialist         2                 IDA
Range Ecologist                          3                 DGIS
18
Terms of reference for these posts have been agreed upon with Government.
Short term consultants would be provided in the following areas:
Duration      Job Descript ion
(MM)
Financial Controller                   14       Train and backstop Chadian
accountants
Monitoring and Evaluation Spec.        5        Set up M & E System
Ecologist Land Use Planner             4       Assist in development of
pastoral land use policy
Remote Sensing                         5        Backstop research program
Range Management                       5        Backstop research program
Forage Production                      6        Backstop research program
Sociologist                           10       Assist in the development of
pastoral land use policy
TOTAL                  49mm
..
Training would be provided to address key weaknesses in the
Chadian human resource base, i.e., for MMHP field staff in range management
and animal production (50 man-years) and in Planning and Extension methods
(180 man-months) and for 1EHP central office staff in livestock economics



_ 5E _
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
(6 man-years), accounting and planning (25 man-months) and the organization
of training (4 man-months).
Furthermore, a total of 14 man-years would be provided to train
sociologists for the Pastoral Organization Unit, and a total of 20
man-years to train range management specialists for the Pastoral
Organization Unit (6 man-years) and the Farcha laboratory (14 man-years).
Finally, 5 man-years of training would be provided to upgrade accountant
and management skills in MAGAVET.
The project would thus provide 18 man-years of technical
assistance at an average cost (including housing) of US$150,000 per
man-year, about 50 man-months of internationally recruited consultant
services at an average cost (including transport and subsistence allowance)
of US$13,500 per month, and about US$11,000 per year for 120 man-years of
training.



- 59-                                  Annex 12
CHAD
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Implomentatlon Schodulo
1988       1989       1990       1991      1992       1993
Preliminary Activities________________________
1 2 3  4  1 2 3 4  112 3  4  1 213 4  1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
PPF
Preparation Bidding Documents
Financial Controller
Audit MAGNET
Tralnig Sociology/Agrostology
Preliminary Studies Pastoral Associations
Credit Effectiveness                       x
PROJECT
A.Pastoral Associations
Group Formation                                ..      1E _     _  _    I 0  g a a m 17 _ _   w I me PI
Wel Rehablitation                              9          9         21          0         31
Training Auxillaries                          I 50, .    50 _         O p 6    76 a . s    W M _    76
TA. Sociologist (Long Term)                 v _b
TA. 8ocloiogist (Short Term)                        "   
TA. Expert Foncier (Short Term)                     "          "
Aerial Survey
Promulgatlon Land Use Policy
S. Input Distribution
Construction iUstribution Centers      Om
Capital increase (CFAi  Mii1on)     80         5          15        14        160
Private Clinics/Pharmacies                     3          0         10         0           7
TA. Saes Manager0 m   m na
C. Research
Snail Ruminant/Camel Study        *             me . . .   . .          Mob
Range Land Moritoring System           *io   mm   m4  o            g  Na    ag Ma    lM   o
Crop/Lvestock integration                              v _ . .  a    , .   _  _ _  _ _    a _  .  ._
TA. Ecologist                                                  -     m"a
TA. Remote ensinge (Short Termn i)                          *                     v
TA. Fodder Production                                               W
0. Livestock Service2                                           
Introduction T & V System                   Z 2  . .     3 S  _1
(Livestock Districts)
Constructlon/Rehabi,itation                   20 . ._.40 _ _
Livestock Posts                            50 _1D                   1 D        ICD        1 )
Staff Retrained                           muui*o
TA. Trainer                                                          II,
E Central Services
Construction MEHP                                 -   
Constructin Water Bureau                    0 _
TA. Project Coordinator                _     ...         _     _ ."         _     _     _    ,
TA. Zoo Economist                                              _       . 
TA. Financial Controiber                    v               1 o                   *
LocE Accountant                           m an am                   -E             M        i   1
M & E System



-60-
to                                                Anne 1
lltlIIIL  _rmi  t M-;
remisl Cots
cTa cor am
(FUA f lUb)                081 10)   .To
Ll  FmI*h  Tetd         Lacd   Fob   Ta    fEcio    costs
_   -  m_                  _m m_m    _                  m  mmnn
Al     .W E LD OMMES        1,249 .2,23  3,477*2   4 .9  8492.0 12,2,=0              6        4
3, CM. NW                     167,2 113   1,7409  b7   4,23.3 6M,.0                  a        21
C. 5 8RC0                     170.*0  412*3    02.3    63.  156*6 2174*2              *  7     7
D. CE111   ASICTU1            390.2  72.4  1117.6  1404  2,626.1  4034,8             a        13
1. INSUT                      367.6 1,062.5  1,40.1  1,327.1  30J5.7  5162*8         74       17
Totw  mILE CoSTs             2WM  5,748,3 830.0  9,457  20,751, 30209.5                6       100
Bs    Co,ieiu                266     457.1   703.7    300.2 160.1 2540*4            65        3
Price Cmtuwis                478,   742.4 1220.S5   172.O 2,680d1 4,4061            6        1S
Totl MJOJECT COuSm            3344.5 6947.7 ls2i 1240740 25,082*0 37,1.                63      13
April 12* 13 16149
cm
NATIlM. LtUSTOCl POJECt
Fmlaeld Cut
ONW wMmu COStT mmm
(9f19 8ill1n1)             (U$ 100)                        Totd
- t~~~~~ Forli 3m
Local FoslJ  Totl    Local  Fousn  Total   Eba               Cst
I. WN    W  COS
A. E1                            153.8 1,177.4 1131,3   3553  4,250.6 4806.0            as      16
3.S 1Ct MSID MGM  TRANI          160,3  236.1   4465    578.8 1t033.0 1411.7            U4        5
C. CIIL DN                       275,9  413.3   69. 7    996.0  1.493.9 24309,9         60 0
D. amN, oF NL     S               95.l  U64   15*5    343.3   22819   572,2              40       2
t.o IAM   OFHIll                 161.2  276.3   437.5    581.9   m.5 145794              63       5
F. 0 III                         142. 1,2300 1422.3    513.5 4621,1 513465               90      17
e. CREDBTFINSI                   13.5  311.5   445*0   4.1.9  1,124.5  1t66.5            70       5
N. 113                             M5   52.5   150.0    352.0   189.5   541.5            35       2
I. NAlliWL M  EC    iT             4.5  495,6   500S1       16.2  1t,39.0  18153         n        6
J. PUJ 9W  FACILITY               3942  1514   190.6    141.6   546.4   633.0            79       2
Tota tiES     Ctl0 1m263.3 4.508.0  5                   3  4,50.6 16274.5 20.835.0         7n       69
II. IM*W  COBST
A. WIVW  MS  _EE COSM    355.4  526.8    2.2   1,283.1 1,901.9 3M15O                    60      11
ofIEIElITIES                    6005        -   600.5  2t,130         - 2W1M3.0          -       7
C. UUL SLOM                     270.9       -   270.9    m.9          -   in.9           -       3
Do UPPLIS                        129.7  713.4     3.1    46383 2.S75.4  3043*7          is5     10
Total          CooT CST           1,356.5 1,240,2 2M596.7  489#2 4477.3 9$374,5             48      31
Total  SE    CO                    2619.3 5,74.  8,3600  9#4W7s7 20,751*. 30.20945           69     100
PAcd  C0 ^mic                     2466  457.1   7032    890.2 1W60.1  2,560,4             65       a
Price CwoAucs                     47831  742*4 1S22J.5  1,7260 29680.1 4o406,1            61      15
tatd PUOST COSTS                   24.5 6947.7102922  12,074O0 25,032.0 37,156.0             U3     in3
btil 12, 1003 16149



- 61 -
Arm= 14
lag. 1.of 2
Flmicitpi Flea by PioJK4 t wongatb
_____ -l DUL                                                                                                                          (a, mm
AMMIlOtii IlaWtf FUIID tStt coiu                   An            *tAM tXlam                    comGNdUI
(fuil.   bit I
Ast  I           Awi    t    bAea        I      bmw       I     wat  I   #wt   I            but _ S    beAt t I   f,. Wh. Tolo)   Ta
"a"  s.         "S"as  Sa   .""   ""                        _u'"   _s ._ "   sas  "am"Is.. ""   ""nu"  suns
A. MP FED  E             4*92.4 32.0    9,579.9  55.1    724.4  4.6                    -           - 1,233.2  3.2       0.0   0.0 1579.  41.9   1033 3- 44.9  1,*46.1
L  WK   MN sso 59 73.                      92   12.9    543.1  7.2                           --                      506.4   6.7   7531.1  20.3    4v943.0  1,134    776.3
C. 1:11M                   632.6 24.3          -    -          -    -   137.5  70.4                        1- 13.2   5.3  268.2   7.0    1*330.4    54.3    223.5
D. _S3 ASTICITI          2453.1 512    20W.97 41.1                        -            -         -       90.4 1.1     24.0   5.9   4MA55.4  13.4    3173.9   962.1    349.4
E. 386611                4,916.5 76.2           -    -         -    -          -      - 154.8 23.3          -   -       0.0   0.0  6,451.4 17.4    4755.7 1302.1          3S
Total Dioursen            18360.6 50.1   11W00.  31.2   1267.5  3.4   1,37.5   4.9 143U.  4.1  1373.6 3.7    9337   2.5 37,15.0 100.0   2 6032.0  3369.   30704.2
April 12. 193 u6:51



_m   _m        _      _ _    _       _   -, -         am   -       _ -     ,_a     - 
wst roW.rOW         ow  "lose 1    3    51ten V" tt r 'S  Pt A    rap   rt r1n'  ru  Vn  VS P09 WMMp1
m'  emit rt         ra rwit r1  rSui               re 1w! 6t6 6wt 6 r     - r      -   -      6rano iMM  "I
lno   ris    MM V set t        n   to r    'e Vs.  rn ii  p       t     -  -                  VW-rapt -3ndMS I
~~~~ r    t usel P'  0    r6            t -    91 -                -  -           -S r6W                     SWU U
@13'!g -         s's @163' 31  P631   Ot  rW 6S  -'          - . -   -         -          vs r ''               sauu  I
sra    "a   *IW   Vet roast Po  VW           P6   6U   Vt   S           - -       -           S      t                   13
l"I  111 'It
610W t' 31rnt  P0                     re eV -      6 r      6m     39   01 3'  VS 1        n  rt t t                31t11sm=  I
111   113  Ps.    31 610   -                 -    -         -  -        -  -      r6  315    P06  r 3
*  * IS!   t 361'   6  Ptt60  -           -    *  -  *'? Pn  r      *  -       6' rtl 363'  011 013       smrsw mm
VlIt  VOl  6's.'   rt P10  re  t'01                **       * -                     *         POPe P1W              5151163
r*   s SIP  tteNS'rne rtI rt    -            -    B' -U   It  VL            -     6-  -U'  B' rtot4         r     n       S '0S
tmpt~ r         rn t4i st too-* t                 rmat r  rgr    V   0 t    rZ -w  -4 rt    GM Me rs            Wool
01    1161  663'   *1   r W't 01  01         -                                    016 3  - -                     S - *,Uw    13 3
nu1    tw0   ro%t  rt IW    rt  n 0          -          *  -  tot   .    -     r. bt          Po*                 Ki -E "Pi
rW e   1u  t'n       S 1110'!      *     *  -    * - -        - .          -      V6 t1' U  6' t!  'nt  am mm 'r
rut   Vu1t  nO rLl'           n   r0 01lw -         -                                                                  s um I *  N -   -  513  1  IS W sG nE
rug   tw   ru*t'  tot*rt  r    01  0                               m-  t -    -  *    3                             Oam l'S   PS  6'tSq  3 3'
am  ru  mt  -  _t n  n                        _ m       m  t   m  -  _       am am 
I~~~~~ _ _I' 'ISOU - ---                                                                _"
rat  B  t  et 1 rut     nn          u             ..                                   _ t 1n
imqw aitq uwVAm 
rit ~  ~      ~     *J rt "sit   nw  ssi"t n                _zV                            eMt    o            wWI
- Z9-



00
Y*w  *               :1      tggagg[
xi~~~~~j
Se~~:
ii~~~~ Ii   if e RL             }-ii
NEa        EgSe    



- 64 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
CRAb
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Economic Benefits
Animal Health
The principal benefit of the project would be improved animal
health. Through Improved range management, better maintenance of wells and
other water points as well as increased consumption of veterinary drugs, an
overall improvement in animal health is anticipated. Mortality rates are
expected to decline along with an increase in fertility rates. Below is a
summary of very tentative estimates regarding the decline of average rates
for the entire countrys
Before
Mortality Rates          Proiect            PY5           PY10          PY20
Male Calves                0.33            0.29           0.25          0.25
Female Calves              0.27           0.24            0.20          0.20
Yearlings
Males                      0.15            0.11           0.08          0.08
Females                    0.15           0.11            0.08          0.08
Fertility Rates            0.60           0.61            0.62          0.65
Meat Production and Market Prospects
Incremental production resulting from the project at PY7 is
eastimated at 2,100 tons of meat and 1,000 tons of milk. By PY20,
incremental production of meat would have reached 22,000 tons with 41,000
tons of milk. The above production corresponds to an increase in herd size
from 3.7 million to 4.3 million by PY20, as against 3.9 million without the
project. Market prospects for Chadian meat are quite favorable. The bulk
of the incremental production in meat is expected to be exported on hoof to
northern Nigeria, which faces a projected meat deficit of about 120,000
tons by 1995. In addition, recent supply and demand projections show a
deficit of the West African region of 2,000,000 tons at the turn of the
century.



- 65 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
Calculation of Meat Prices at the Northern Niterian Market
FROEN BEEF
US$/ka
CIF price at Lagos                                   0.80
Port handling and clearance                          0.04
Local transport to Kaduna                            0.40
Marketing costs:  1Z lossas (10 of CIF price)      0.08
One-month refrigeration                              0.35
Adm. expensess (355 overhead)
0.58
TOTAL                           2.25
CHADIAN BEEF
Farmgate price                                       0.60
Transport to Maidugari on hoof                       0.30*
Maidugari-Kaduna                                     0.20*
Slaughter fee                                        0.11*
Less: Value of offals etc.                           0.19
TOTAL                            1.18
* Preliminary estimates from marketing study team.
Prices at the northern Nigerian market continue to favor Chadian
meat exports, despite dumping of EEC meat. At a highly subsidixed price of
US$800 per ton (carcass weight), port handling, transportation and
marketing costs bring the comparative price at Kaduna to US$2,250 per ton,
which is more than triple tha farm-gate price (US$600 per ton) of Chadian
meat exports and double the c.i.f Kaduna price (US$1.18).  An added
advantage is that Chadian meat is preferred to frozen imports from the EEC
because it is leaner and slaughtered according to accepted Islamic
guidelines. World market prices, according to Bank projections, are
expected to rise from US$2,200 per ton currently to US$2,500 per ton (in
1985 constant prices) by 1995. Finally, the proposed simplification and
eradication of certain taxes in the meat sector is expected to lead to a
considerable increase in export margins for Chadian meat, thereby adding to
their comparative edge on the northern Nigerian market.



ERIN c  aVA
HAtIUWL LIESTOE PROECT
MED  OECIIS  V ITTH  Htt
FIROJECTlEII     I      2     3        4    5        6     7      a      9     10              It   12        13    14    Is    16            17    to    19    20
FERTILITY RATE  0.60    0.60  0.60    0.61 o.u     0.61  0.40   0.60   0.65   0.62             0.62  0.62    0.63   0.41   0.69   0.66       0.64   0.64   0.65  0.65
HORTALtTY RATE                                                                                                                                                              OF NWD
CAVES HEIFERS   0.27    0.26  0.25    0.24 0.24     0.23  0.35   0.25   0.21   0.20             0.20  0.20    0.20   0.33   0.23   0.20       0.20   0.20   0.20  0.20        428
HElFERS 11-2)    0.15    0.14  0.13    0.12 0.11    0.10  0.Is   0.10   0.09   0.08             0.00  0.06    0.08   0.12   0.10   0.06       0.00   0.08   0.08  0.6         27
HEIFERS 12-31    0.03    0.03  0.03    0.03 0.03    0.03  0.06   0.05   0.03   0.03             0.03  0.03    0.03   0.06   0.06   0.03       0.03   0.03   0.03  0.03       252
HEIFERS 13-43    0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02    0.02  0.0   0.06   0.02   0.02              0.02  0.02    0.02   0.0   0.05   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       226
CMI! (4I)       0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02     0.02  0.07   0.05   0.02   0.02             0.02  0.02    0.02   0.07   0.05   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       1333
CALES ILS       0.33    0.32  0.31    0.30 0.29     0.28  0.50   0.35   0.26   0.25             0.25  0.25    0.25   0.43   0.33   0.25       0.25   0.25   0.25  0.25        426
PIENSTEER 11-2) 0.15    0.14  0.13    0.12 0.11     0.10  0.20   0.12   0.06   0.08             0.00  0.03    0.08   0.20   0.12   o.06       0.08   0.08   0.08  0.0         234
3IU.SISTEER 12-3) 0.03    0.03  0.03    0.03 0.03   0.03  0.06   0.05   0.03   0.03             0.03  0.03    0.03   0.08   0.05   0.03       0.03   0.03   0.03  0.03        201
lOSISTtEER (3-43 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02    0.02  0.08   0.05   0.02   0.02             0.02  0.02    0.02   O.OB   0.05   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       lie
IULSTEER (4-5) 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02      0.02  0.06   0.05   0.02   0.02             0.02  0.02    0.02   0.08   0.05   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02         83
soLstsTEER (561 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02     0.02  0.0e   0.05   0.02   0.02             0.02  0.02    0.02   0.08   0.05   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02         47           0%
USISTEER (6-73 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02      0.02  0.05   0.03   0.02   0.02             0.02  0.02    0.02   0.0o   0.03   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02         13
ONLSIStEER t1)  0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02     0.02  0.05   0.03   0.02   0.02             0.02  0.02    0.02   0.05   0.0S   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02         12
iNM POPtLArioW
WITH POECT   3700    365   361      3596 3615    363   3sa    30    s372   3319               3386  3465    3546   336   303   3163         3357   3430   3323  3615
WITHOUT PROECT 3700    36    3670    365  3673       8   3427   30    3152   3261              3276  3300    3327   3108   2803   260        2993   299    303  3034
IvwCASIIAL HEAT
FItOIW1'OO to")   4       4     4       5    6         7     5      5     t0    11                It   14       16    14    1t       16         16    16    19    22
Ila. in. OF
SALES 'OOI      20     to   IS        14  1t        21    12    24    34    31                  32    44      59     62    46    65           64    65 *     2  92
it. Usad on historital evidece, drouhts wr assumed to ectcr in P17 ad P114; production coefdicimts under the ON projoct' sc#rio re te sme as 4or P11.
Iob
Fe



EPUIIIIC OF CNNIX
IlltimlL LIETI   M
PlIJET YEA      1       2    3        4    3        6     I      8     *      10              it   12       t3    14    15    16           IT    to    19   20
FEPnTrLTYRATE  0.60   0.60  0.60    o.61 #.61    0.61  0.b   0.62   O.62   0.U2              e.u   0.63    0.63   0.63   0.63   0.64      0.64   0.64   0.64  e.1
CALMS HEIFEPS   0.2t   0.26  0.25    o.24 0.24     0.23  0.22   0.21   0.21   0.20           0O-N  0.20    0.20   0.N0  0.20   0.20        0.20   0.20   0.20  0.20      428
tlEIFERS tl-21    0. 15    0.14  o. t    0.12 0.11    0.10  0.10   0.o 9 . 0.09       0.08          e.os 0.08   0.08 e.9    .os   0.08     o.es   0.08   0.08  0.08      VI
NEIFER  (2-3)   0-03    0.03  0.03    0.03 0.03    0.03  0.03   0.03   0.03   0.05            0.03  0.03    0.e3   0.03   0.03   0.03      0.03   0.03   0.03  0.03      25
NEIFEAS (3-4)    0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02   0.02  0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02            0.02  0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02      226
Cmll (40}  ,    0-02    e.02  0.02    0.02 0.02    0.02  0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02            0.02  0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02     1333
CLME BULLS    0.33    0.32  0.31    0.30 0.29    0.20   - 0.2 1 0.2 6 .    0.25               0.25  0.25    0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25      0.25   0.25   0.25  0.25      426
6UttS2tEER 11-21 0.15    0.14  0.13    0.12 0.11   0.10  0.10   0.09   0.08   0.08            0.08  0.08    OO 0.08 0.08       0.0 8  0.08       0.08 .o   0.08  0.Qs    2e4     
OULLS(STEER l2-31 0.03    0.03  0.03    0.03 0.03    0.03  O.Ot  0.03   0.03   0.03           0.03  0.03    0.03   0.03   0.03   0.03      0.03   0.03   0.03  0.03      201
ORLItSSTEER 13Ss) 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02  0.02  e.o2   0.02   0.02   0.02            0.02  0.02    0.0t  0.02   0.02   0.02       0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02      lie1
MSULSTSER 14-51 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02    0.02  0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02            0.02  0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       83
BUUSISTEER tH-) 0-02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02    0.02  0.02   0.02   0. 02   0.02           0.02  0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       47
BULUeSTEER l6-?t 0.02    0.02  0-02    0.02 0.02   0.02  0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02            0.02  0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       13
OULLSISTEER 0)71 0.02    0.02  0.02    0.02 0.02    e.02  0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02           0.02  0.02    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.02   0.02   0.02  0.02       12
EtD PtltUATIEII
PReN Ett  3700    ZSB  3t10   3596 3615        3M   367n  3722  s77    3041               391   M        076   4161   4M    4339       4421   452?  4632  474
IIITMU PROJECt 37"    U     3670    305 36n3      USt 3701   V         mt 373t377   SM5 n70 s8 se 3825   393   3062                        3Ms 30m   3918  3934
tIlCREeAL MEAt
PRODX ('0 tone)a  4       4     4       5    6       7      I     to     11O        16    16                  tols l  19    21    22         24    25    27    2B
110C. NO. OF
SAM5 (1000     20      to   13          1r   7     21    ZS    29    34       4                0    34      63    t2    80    09                 t oy    it?  128
la  ItilSetilon cmfficient  _ae the *n projec' ue o ar tle stm as fr mY.  t1
0.



_aa~ 17
TIOIUL LIVSTOCK NAOUC
woe?iaet caghk 11.
(aillic CIA?)
YEAR                                 1984 11                                                                                                                                    19117 L6S 16   M7   1999 T 0TL
Sulery                           396       412       392      316       331       348       361       34        403       423       423       423       423       423       423       423      630
Non s6                                      7n       7I         0        40        40                  44        46        4        3         263       26f       267       20        271      2212
IpyntUlfitI                                                                                                               114       390       193        22       167       222        36     1544
84TIoNI tiWRYOI' PROJ,
lIantamts                                                               6o       1071       807       I         436                                                                           354
Salaries                                                                 33        62        67      77          79                                                                             318
NMn selarin                                                              61       177       203       294       321                                                                            10%
TOT_                                  472       487       467       316      1103      1702      1484    1UV         1281                1163      879       710      1257       914       730    152
WOVERIAIET                            U472      487       467       316       371 V     3         407       428       44        47        472       472      472       472       472       4n       712
ibn  con uls  vaccinatio,                                                15        16        17        17        10        19        20        20        21        21        21        22       227
Tratats                            6         6         6         6       13        36        4         53        517       6         7         85        85        a5        85        85       77
CPoDls.v cissaca                                                                             30        30        30        30        30        30        30        30        30        30       300
:11ET11  WlO  !                                                              732      1314      1077      1259       63          0                                                                 3
TOTAL                                 478       493       473       362      1131      173       1560      1737      1390       S86      57        607        0        60        6S        609    13671
N IM NM IU /DEFICIT                     6         6         6         6        20        52        9        100       101         0     -56       -m        -102      -649      -306      -121    -16U
TAX mm1320                                                          49s       P7        700      1150      1390     120       180       2350      260       26        26        260       260      23670
-ov     T   S0UW      I/ DEFICIT        6         6       326       46        1         72       1246      140       1725      180      17i4      234       2548      2001      2344      2529



MAP SECTION



oo  ,             ~~~          ~~14      16-                     18-                    26                     22!U                     :.c ric  -'
/  LIBYA          ARABC
.   . >   \                                       .                          (                  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPU811IC
ALEI `\                OF EGYPT
NIGERA
-2?        C    H    A    D          I*2                                                                                             
22  CHAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                                                                                               SUDAN
Uvestock Service Infrastructure and                                                                    - 0                      NIGERA 
Location Pastoral Pilot Area                                                                                                     -        - '    .
Pilot area postorial aeciation   't                                                                                    CisO0N  AFRICAN RE?UC \
C()    Sequence introduction postorial    N                                                                                                24-              2
-23         el#~asocilaHons                /                                                                                .-.
o     MAGAVET centers                   ;
o     Livestock district headquarters
e     lvestocd sector headquarters     |
*     Posts
livestock district bouidaries   |
- ivestock setor boundaries    j
I     limits of agro-ecological zones
-18 itiS   i 18vers
_-_-.    Interntional boundories                                                       y
N   IG   E Rf  -ti                                            !
16~)\5r                                                                                                         -                                        6
MAO                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14'
_- 1                                                                                                            * 2                                               12,_
N ~          ~\                                 ~ t I G El  
0PglO    tt. *                 a     \      -/,
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Re                                    1)lbln                                *5
8      \                   ttodofr    Nobsobl /                                   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 30 60 90 120 IS0         *       E
CAMEROON                          '-  \- _
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
3 7 _    e             1,0/                   If                     1to                     2                       2?r                     2t_



