Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1912 CD
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Chad - National Livestock Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated February 21, 1990
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1912 CD
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Grantee) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and of the Minister in the financing of the 
National Livestock Project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement No. 1912 CD dated July 5, 1988 between the  Grantee and the 
Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
amount of three million six hundred ninety thousand Dutch Guilders (the Dutch Grant) 
to assist the Grantee in carrying out the Project on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by arrangements dated December 11, 1986 between the Minister, the 
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the Association (the Arrangements), the Minister 
has requested the
Page  2
Association, and the Association has accepted, to administer, inter alia, the Dutch 
Grant in accordance
with the provisions of the Arrangements; and 
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this Dutch Grant Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement subject, however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arrangements, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in 
Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Dutch Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant Account, the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Grantee to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Grantee and the Administrator, the Grantee shall 
prepare and furnish 
to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Project referred to in the Preamble to the Dutch 
Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Dutch 
Grant"; and
 
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and the terms "Dutch Guidlers" and "Dfls" mean the currency of the 
Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of three million 
six hundred ninety thousand Dutch Guilders (Dfls 3,690,000).
Section 2.02. The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Page  3
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by Agreement between the Grantee and 
the Administrator.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and 
effect as if it were fully set forth herein, it being understood that the references 
in said Schedule to the "Association" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant and the Dutch 
Grant Account,
respectively.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no 
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant, 
and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, 
power or remedy of the Administrator under this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, 
cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, 
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said Articles III and IV to "the Association" shall be deemed 
to be references to the Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement and all 
references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references 
to the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Grantee responsible for Planning shall be the 
representative of
the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Ministere du Plan et de la
   Cooperation
B.P. 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
Page  4
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adoum
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Dutch Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Dutch Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Grant Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
Page  5
   Category                 Dfls)     to be Financed
(1)    Technical        1,500,000       100%
   Assistance
(2)    Local and          130,000       100%
   overseas
   training
(3)    Vehicles,          200,000       100%
   material
   and equip-
   ment
(4)    Vehicles           610,000       100%
   repair and
   maintenance
   costs, and
   supplies
(5)    Services (aerial   900,000       100%
   surveys, feed
   analysis,
   studies)
(6)    Unallocated        350,000
TOTAL     3,690,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement or for goods not eligible under the Development Credit Agreement.
