Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1912 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(National Livestock Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 5, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1912 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a Letter of Intent from the Borrower dated 
January 14, 1988 describing a development program for the livestock sub-sector;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Fund (ADF) 
a credit (the ADF Credit) in an amount equivalent to $11,600,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the ADF Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation 
(FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and FAC;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Directorate General for 
International Cooperation (DGIS) a grant (the DGIS Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
$1,800,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the DGIS Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DGIS; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has a greed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BEAC" means Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale; 
 
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"ENATE" means Ecole Nationale des Techniciens de l'Elevage of the 
Borrower;
(e)
"MAGAVET" means the Magasin General d'Approvisionnement en Produits et 
Materiels Veterinaires of the Borrower;
(f)
"MEHP" means the Ministerre de l'Elevage et de l'Hydraulique Pastorale of 
the Borrower; and
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 13, 1987 and December 16, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1998 and ending March 15, 2028. 
Each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determine d by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and, 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEHP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain an account in the name of MEHP in BEAC or in 
a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association and deposit therein promptly after 
collection the revenues arising from MEHP's charges for livestock related services; 
and
(b)
exclusively use the funds deposited in said account to cover MEHP's 
non-salary expenditures.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1988, take all 
necessary actions to cause MAGAVET to reorganize its operations and management in 
order to reduce its costs and to sell all veterinary products at a competitive price 
taking into consideration their real cost.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in consultation with the Association, prepare a pastoral land use policy 
satisfactory to the Association for long-term resource conservation, including, inter 
alia, the transfer of exclusive use of water points and range lands to pastoral 
associations; and
(b)
not later than December 31, 1990, take all necessary actions to ensure 
the application of said policy.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to:
(a)
permit MEHP's livestock agents to provide animal health care privately 
including, the possibility of taking up to two years of leave without pay; and
(b)
maintain, during the first five years of the Project, the number of 
MEHP's staff at the level of January 1, 1988.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
set, before January 1, 1991, eligibility criteria, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the selection of companies which will import veterinary products; and
(b)
take before January 1, 1991, or such later date as the Association shall 
establish after consultation with the Borrower, all necessary actions to abolish 
MAGAVET's import monopoly.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish a pastoral organization unit within MEHP to provide technical 
and organizational assistance in the establishment of the Pastoral Organizations 
referred to under Part A of the Project; and
Page  5
(b)
employ a livestock specialist to head said unit with qualification and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. In order to ensure the overall coordination of the execution of 
the Project, the Borrower shall recruit a Project Coordinator to assist the Director 
General of MEHP, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish a committee chaired by the Director General of MEHP, composed 
of the Project Coordinator referred to under Section 3.09 of this Agreement, and 
representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, the Ministry of Finance 
and Computerization, the Ministry in charge of General Inspection and State Control 
and the Secretary General of the Presidency, to supervise the credit fund referred to 
under Part B (3) of the Project; and
(b)
relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 
(6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to a commercial bank under a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and said commercial bank, under 
terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association which shall include:
(i)
in the case of credits for initial installation of veterinarians 
and livestock 
technicians, an annual interest rate based on BEAC's 
preferential discount 
rate plus a maximum of five percentage 
points for fees and expenses and a 
repayment period of up to 
ten years including a grace period of 3 years; and
(ii)
in the case of credits for operating costs of veterinarians and 
livestock 
technicians, and of exporters of meat and meat 
by-products, an interest rate 
based on BEAC's regular discount rate 
plus a maximum of five point five 
percentage points for fees 
and expenses and a repayment period of up to one 
year for 
veterinarians and livestock technicians, and of up to six months for 
exporters of meat and meat by-products.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall employ, at all times during the execution of 
the Project, personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association to fill the positions of National Director of the Project, Director of 
MAGAVET and Chief of the pastoral organization unit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
Page  6
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, through MEHP, annually adjust the charges 
applicable to non-compulsory vaccinations and clinical interventions, so as to cover 
the full costs of these interventions on the basis of cost calculations prepared by 
MEHP's Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain its budgetary allocation to MEHP's 
operating expenditures at least at the level of CFAF 40 million per year.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall introduce, effective May 31, 1990, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish after consultation with the Borrower, a 
mechanism for the recovery of recurrent costs of compulsory vaccinations satisfactory 
to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.Ol. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Page  7
Section 5.O2. Pursuant to Section 7.O1 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: the event specified in subparagraph (i) (B) 
of Section 5.Ol of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso o f paragraph 
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.O1 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Coordinator referred to under Section 3.09 of this Agreement 
has been recruited in accordance with the provision of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADF Credit 
Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
FAC's agreement for the financing of technical assistance under Parts D 
(2) and E (2) of the Project has been obtained; and
(d)
MAGAVET's Statuts have been revised and are satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.O2. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  8
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adoum
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                   70,000        100%
(2) Vehicles and               1,410,000        100%
    Equipment
(3) (a)  Technical             1,900,000        100%
         assistance
    (b)  Training              1,100,000
    (c)  Studies                 400,000
(4) Veterinary Drugs           1,620,000        100%
(5) Operating Costs            3,500,000        100% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                SDR 1,400,000;
                                                90% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                SDR 1,100,000;
                                                80% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                SDR 1,000,000.
(6) Goods and services         1,270,000        100%
    for Part B (3)
    of the Project
(7) Refunding of                 500,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
Page  9
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(8) Unallocated                1,430,000
         TOTAL                13,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term operating costs means the Project's 
incremental costs for transport, field allowances, supplies and extension material.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payment made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (6) unless the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement referred to under Section 3.10 (b) has been entered into between the 
Borrower and a commercial bank, satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the Borrower's national livestock 
production and revenues and the producers' income on a sustainable basis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof, as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Pastoral Associations
 
1.
Establishment of cooperative herders' associations to contribute to livestock 
sanitary protection through the training of selected associations' members in the use 
of drugs and the management of veterinary pharmacies, and in the management of water 
points and adjacent range lands.
2.
Establishment of a Pastoral Organization Unit within MEHP, training of Chadian 
personnel in animal production, range management and pastoral sociology, acquisition 
of necessary vehicles and equipment, and rehabilitation of about 100 water points.
Part B:
Input Distribution and Private Animal Health Services
 
1.
Strengthening of MAGAVET through the increase of its stock of veterinary 
supplies and other livestock inputs, the extension of its distribution network through 
the acquisition of vehicles, the rehabilitation or construction of provincial 
distribution centers, and the strengthening of its management through the provision of 
technical assistance.
2.
Training by MAGAVET, in cooperation with ENATE, of private traders involved in 
the sale of non-prescription drugs, and of livestock technicians involved in the use 
of prescription and non- prescription drugs.
3.
Establishment of a credit fund in a commercial bank to finance: (a) investments 
and initial operating costs of veterinarians and livestock technicians who establish 
private veterinary practice and drug sale businesses; and
(b)
credit needs of veterinarians and livestock technicians, and of exporters 
of meat and meat by-products acceptable to MEHP.
Part C:
Research
 
1.
Implementation of research programs at the Farcha Laboratory to define 
technically and socioeconomically acceptable techniques for rangeland conservation and 
management, and for crop/livestock integration within pastoral associations. 
Improvement of available information on feed resources and their use.
Page  10
2.
Training of local scientists in epizootiology and range ecology. Equipping of 
the Farcha Laboratory in micro-computers, vehicles and research equipment. Acquisition 
of satellite data for grazing are as and analysis thereof, and provision of technical 
assistance.
Part D:
MEHP Field Services
 
1.
Strengthening of MEHP's field services in sanitary control and vaccination 
campaigns, and in extension through the introduction of improved management 
principles, the construction or rehabilitation of about 60 field offices equipped with 
cold chains, and the acquisition of supplies, extension material, office furnishings, 
one vehicle per district and sector, and about 2 motorcycles per field office.
2.
Annual training of MEHP's field staff through training programs at ENATE, 
acquisition of a bus and equipment thereof, and overseas training for the teaching 
staff.
Part E:
MEHP Central Facilities
 
1.
Strengthening of MEHP's Projects Monitoring a nd Evaluation Unit to improve 
livestock policy formulation and projects coordination through the acquisition of 
equipment and vehicles, and the provision of technical assistance.
2.
Strengthening of MEHP's Water Bureau to plan and coordinate rural water programs 
and to develop a resource planning system through the acquisition of vehicles and 
equipment, the construction of additional office space and the provision of technical 
assistance.
3.
Strengthening of MEHP's Directorate of Administration and Finance to improve 
projects management.
4.
Construction of office space to assist MEHP's services in the execution of the 
Project.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works, and vehicles, equipment and drugs estimated to cost between $50,000 
and $150,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
Page  11
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 an d 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ a project coordinator, a pastoral organization specialist, a livestock 
economist, a financial controller, and other consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Project will be carried o ut through MEHP under the joint responsibility of:
(i)
the State Secretary for Livestock for annual and long-term 
planification, 
preparation of the corresponding budget, and 
evaluation; and
(ii)
MEHP's General Director, acting in its capacity of National 
Director of the 
Project, assisted by the Project Coordinator, for all 
decisions concerning the 
implementation of said planification and the 
corresponding budget.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 to 6 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF 150,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be ma de as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of the amount of 
the 
Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  13
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 
4 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, re 
fund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible 
or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made 
such de posit 
or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
