OFFICIAL
PvAri lMFNcT'S
CREDIT NUMBER 1912 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(National Livestock Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   7'lI     5                , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1912 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Y   r         , 1988, between REPUBLIC
OF CHAD (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Association has received a Letter of Intent from the
Borrower dated January 14, 1988 describing a development program
for the livestock sub-sector;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (ADF) a credit (the ADF Credit) in an amount
equivalent to $11,600,000 to assist in financirg part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
ADF Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ADF;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Fonds d'Aide
et de Coopration (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $1,300,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
tAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
FAC,
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Directorate
General for International Cooperation (DGIS) a grant (the DGIS
Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the DGIS Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and DGIS; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of SecK ion 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BEAC" means Bangue des Etats de L'Afriaue Centrale;
(b) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "ENATE" means Ecole Nationale des Techniciens de
1'Elevage of the Borrower;
(e) "MAGAVET" means the Magasin Gdndral d'Approvisionnement
en Produits et Mat6riels V6t6rinaires of the Borrower;
(f)  "MEH?" means the Minist6re de 1'Elev&Z          et de
1'Hydraulique Pastorale of the Borrower; and
(g) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-,
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated November 13, 1987 and December 16,
1987 between the Borroi4er and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,200,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if, the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods' and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without


﻿-4-
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of thc Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual ILnstallments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1998 and ending March 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five
consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and, after due
consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment
of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such installments, the payment of


﻿-5-
interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
7              Association-may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MEHP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) open and thereafter maintain an account in the name of
MEHP in BEAC or in a commercial bank satisfactory to the


﻿-6-
Association and deposit therein, promptly after collection, the
revenues arising from MEHP's charges for livestock related
services; and
(b) exclusively use the funds deposited in said account to
cover MEHP's non-salary expenditures.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than July 31,
1988, take all necessary actions to cause MAGAVET to reorganize
its operations and management in order to reduce its costs and to
sell all veterinary products at a competitive price taking into
consideration their real cost.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) in consultation with the Association, prepare a pastoral
land use policy satisfactory to the Association for long-term
resource conservation, including, inter alia, the transfer of
exclusive use of water points and range lands to pastoral
associations; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1990, take all necessary
actions to ensure the application of said policy.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
to:
(a) permit MEHP's livestock agents to provide animal health
care privately including, the possibility of taking up to two
years of leave without pay; and
(b) maintain, during the first five years of the Project,
the number of MEHP's staff at the level of January 1, 1988.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) set, before January 1, 1991, eligibility criteria,
satisfactory to the Association, for the selection of companies
which will import veterinary products; and
(b) take before January 1, 1991, or such later date as the
Association shall establish, after consultation with the Borrower,
all necessary actions to abolish MAGAVET's import monopoly.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. the Borrower shall:
(a) establish a pastoral organization unit within MEHP to
provide technical and organizational assistance in the
establishment of the Pastoral Organizations referred to under
Part A of the Project; and
(b) employ a livestock specialist to head said unit with
qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. In order to ensure the overall coordination of
the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall recruit a Project
Coordinator to assist the Director General of MEHP, in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
'(a) establish a committee chaired by the Director General of
MEHP, composed of the Project Coordinator referred to under
Section 3.09 of this Agreement, and representatives of the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, the Ministry of Finance and
Computerization, the Ministry in charge of General Inspection and
State Control and the Secretary General of the Presidency to
supervise the credit fund referred to under Part B (3) of the
Project; and
(b) relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to Category (6) of the table in pargraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
a commercial bank under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and said commercial bank, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
which shall include:
(i) in the case of credits for initial installation of
veterinarians  and livestock technicians, an annual
interest rate based on BEAC's preferential discount
rate plus a maximum of five percentage points for
fees and expenses and a repayment period of up to
ten years including a grace period of 3 years; and
(ii) in the case of credits for operating costs of
veterinarians and livestock technicians, and of
exporters of meat and meat by-products, an interest
rate based on BEAC's regular discount rate plus a
maximum of five point five percentage points for


﻿-8-
fees and expenses and a repayment period of up to
one year for veterinarians and livestock
technicians, and of up to six months for exporters,
of meat and meat by-products.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall employ, at all times during
the execution of the Project, personnel with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association to fill the positions
of National Director of the Project, Director of MAGAVET and Chief
of the Pastoral Organization Unit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-9-
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least pne year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association representatives to examine
such records; 6 dI
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Sictioi! 4.02. The Borrower shall, through MEHP, annually
adjus2t the charges applicable to non-compulsory vaccinations and
clinical interventions, so as to cover the full costs of these
interventions on the basis of cost calculations prepared by MEHP's
Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain its budgetary
allocation to MEHP's operating expenditures at least at the level
of CFAF 40 million per year.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall introduce, effective
May 31, 1990, or such later date as the Association shall
establish after consultation with the Borrower, a mechanism for
the recovery of recurrent costs' of compulsory vaccinations
satifactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:


﻿- 10 -
(i) Subject.to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that:
(A) such suspenson, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified: namely,
that the event specified in subparagraph (i) n(B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Project Coordinator referred to under Section 3.09
of this Agreement has been recruited in accordance with the
provision of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(b)( ,all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADF
Credit Agreement, except for the effectivenes.s of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled;
(c) FAC's agreement for the financing of technical
,assistance under Parts D (2) and E -(2) of the Project has been
obtained; and
(W) MAGAVET's Statuts have been revised and are satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 6.02, The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Cooperation of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions,.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are. specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Botrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N' Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:                     Telex:
XINP.LAN                       5329 KD
N' Dj amena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D,C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable add,ess:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By [4Y t1anaf41.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 15 (          L/aJ v.k. ny coc
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                   70,000        100%
(2) Vehicles and               1,410,000       100%
Equipment
(3)  (a) Technical             1,900,000        100%
assistance
(b) Training              1,100,000
(c) Studies                 400,000
(4) Veterinary Drugs           1,620,000        100%
(5) Operating Costs            3,500,000        100% up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 1,400,000;
90% up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 1,100,000;
80% up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 1,000,000.
(6) Goods and services         1,270,000       100%
for Part B.3
of the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Refunding of                 500,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                1,430,000
TOTAL                13,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term operating costs
means the Project's incremental costs for transport, field
allowances, supplies and extension material.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (6) unless
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to under Section 3.10 (b)
has been entered into between the Borrower and a commercial bank,
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the Borrower's
national livestock production and revenues and the producers
income on a sustainable basis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof, as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Pastoral Associations
1.   Establishment of cooperative herders' associations to
contribute to livestock sanitary protection through the training
of selected associations' members in the use of drugs and the
management of veterinary pharmacies, and in the management of
water points and adjacent range lands.
2.   Establishment of a Pastoral Organization Unit within MEHP,
training of Chadian personnel in animal production, range
management and pastoral sociology, acquisition of necessary
vehicles and equipment, and rehabilitation of about 100 water
points.
Part B:   Input Distribution and Private Animal Health Services
1.   Strengthening of MAGAVET through the increase of its stock of
veterinary supplies and other livestock inputs, the extension of
its distribution network through the acquisition of vehicles, the
rehabilitation or construction of provincial distribution centers,
and the strengthening of its management through the provision of
technical assistance.
2.   Training by MAGAVET, in cooperation with ENATE, of private
traders involved in the sale of non-prescription drugs, and of
livestock technicians involved in the use of prescription and non-
prescription drugs.
3.   Establishment of a credit fund in a commercial bank to
finance: (a) investments and initial operating costs of
veterinarians and livestock technicians who establish private
veterinary practice and drug sale businesses; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) credit needs of veterinarians and livestock technicians,
and of exporters of meat and meat by-products acceptable to MEHP.
Part C:   Research
1.   Implementation of research programs at the Farcha Laboratory
to define technically and socio-economically acceptable techniques
for rangeland conservation and management, and for crop/livestock
integration within pastoral associations. Improvement of
available information on feed resources and their use.
2.   Training of local scientists in epizootiology and range
ecology. Equipping of the Farcha Laboratory in micro-computers,
vehicles and research equipment. Acquisition of satellite data for
grazing areas and analysis thereof, and provision of technical
assistance.
Part D:   MEHP Field Services
1.   Strengthening of MEHP's field services in sanitary control
and vaccination campaigns, and in extension through the
introduction of improved management principles, the construction
or rehabilitation of about 60 field offices equipped with cold
chains, and the acquisition of supplies, extension material,
office furnishings, one vehicle per district and sector, and about
2 motorcycles per field office.
2.   Annual training of MEHP's field staff through training
programs at ENATE, acquisition of a bus and equipment thereof, and
overseas training for the teaching staff.
Part E:   MEHP Central Facilities
1.   Strengthening of MEHP's Projects Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit to improve livestock policy formulation and projects
coordination through the acquisition of equipment and vehicles,
and the provision of technical assistance.
2.   Strengthening of MEHP's Water Bureau to plan and coordinate
rural water programs and to develop a resource planning system
through the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, the
construction of additional office space and the provision of
technical assistance.
3.   Strengthening of MEHP's Directorate of Administration and
Finance to improve projects management.


﻿- 17 -
4.   Construction of office space to assist MkHP's services in the
execution of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


-   1 8   - 
S C H E D U L E   3 
P r o c u r e m e n t   a n d   C o n s u l t a n t s '   S e r v i c e s 
S e c t i o n   I .   P r o c u r e m e n t   o f   G o o d s   a n d   W o r k s 
P a r t   A :   I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C o m p e t i t i v e   B i d d i n g 
E x c e p t   a s   p r o v i d e d   i n   P a r t   D   h e r e o f ,   g o o d s   a n d   w o r k s   s h a l l   b e 
p r o c u r e d   u n d e r   c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s 
c o n s i s t e n t   w i t h   t h o s e   s e t   f o r t h   i n   S e c t i o n s   I   a n d   I I   o f   t h e 
" G u i d e l i n e s   f o r   P r o c u r e m e n t   u n d e r   I B R D   L o a n s   a n d   I D A   C r e d i t s " 
p u b l i s h e d   b y   t h e   B a n k   i n   M a y   1 9 8 5   ( t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ) . 
P a r t   B :       P r e f e r e n c e   f o r   D o m e s t i c   M a n u f a c t u r e r s 
I n   t h e   p r o c u r e m e n t   o f   g o o d s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p r o c e d u r e s 
d e s c r i b e d   i n   P a r t   A   h e r e o f ,   g o o d s   m a n u f a c t u r e d   i n   C h a d   m a y   b e 
g r a n t e d   a   m a r g i n   o f   p r e f e r e n c e   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h ,   a n d   s u b j e c t   t o , 
t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   p a r a g r a p h s   2 . 5 5   a n d   2 , . 5 6   o f   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s   a n d 
p a r a g r a p h s   1   t h r o u g h   4   o f   A p p e n d i x   2   t h e r e t o . 
P a r t   C :       O t h e r   P r o c u r e m e n t   P r o c e d u r e s 
1 .       C i v i l   w o r k s ,   a n d   v e h i c l e s ,   e q u i p m e n t   a n d   d r u g s   e s t i m a t e d   t o 
c o s t   b e t w e e n   $ 5 0 , 0 0 0   a n d   $ 1 5 0 , 0 0 0   e q u i v a l e n t   m a y   b e   p r o c u r e d   u n d e r 
c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g ,   a d v e r t i s e d 
l o c a l l y ,   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s   s a t i s f a c t o r y   t o   t h e 
A s s o c i a t i o n . 
2 .       I t e m s   o r   g r o u p s   o f   i t e m s   e s t i m a t e d   t o   c o s t   l e s s   t h a n   t h e 
e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 5 0 , 0 0 0   p e r   c o n t r a c t ,   m a y   b e   p r o c u r e d   u n d e r 
c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   c o m p a r i s o n   o f   p r i c e   q u o t a t i o n s 
s o l i c i t e d   f r o m   a   l i s t   o f   a t   l e a s t   t h r e e   s u p p l i e r s   e l i g i b l e   u n d e r 
t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ,   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s   a c c e p t a b l e   t o   t h e 
A s s o c i a t i o n . 
P a r t   D :       R e v i e w   b y   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n   o f   P r o c u r e m e n t   D e c i s i o n s 
1 .       R e v i e w   o f   i n v i t a t i o n s   t o   b i d   a n d   o f   p r o p o s e d   a w a r d s   a n d   f i n a l 
c o n t r a c t s : 
( a )   W i t h   r e s p e c t   t o   e a c h   c o n t r a c t   f o r   c i v i l   w o r k s   a n d   g o o d s 
e s t i m a t e d   t o   c o s t   t h e   e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 1 0 0 , 0 0 0   o r   m o r e ,   t h e 
p r o c e d u r e s   s e t   f o r t h   i n   p a r a g r a p h s   2 , a n d   4   o f   A p p e n d i x   1   t o   t h e 


﻿- 19 -
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ a project coordinator, a pastoral
organization specialist, a livestock economist, a financial
controller, and other consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Project will be carried out through MEHP under the joint
responsibility of:
(i) the State Secretary for Livestock for annual and
long-term planification, preparation of the
corresponding budget, and evaluation; and
(ii) MEHP's General Director, acting in its capacity of
National Director of the Project, assisted by the
Project Coordinator, for all decisions concerning
the implementation of said planification and the
corresponding budget.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 to 6
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 'the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categotiesin
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount'of CFAF
150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿-22-
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 23 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
(i) was made for any expenditur! or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragfaph 2 of this Schedule;
or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY
li


