Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23406
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26950; PPFI-P8980)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION
TO THE
GHANA
FOR A
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
12/28/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Cunrency Unit = Cedis
I Cedis = US$ 0.000138
US$ I = 7250 Cedis
FISCAL YEAR
January I  Decernber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:  Rosemary T. Bellew
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ferdinand Tsri Apronti



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  18
9. Partner Comments                                                                 20
10. Additional Information                                                         29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000948                                       Project Name: Vocational Skills and Informal Sector
Support Project
Team Leader: Ferdinand Tsri Apronti                       TL Unit: AFTQK
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support  L/C/TF Number: IDA-26950;
Project                                                      PPFI-P8980
Country/Department: GHANA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education & Training;
SY - Other Social Protection
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/24/1992                             Effective: 09/19/1995         09/1911995
Appraisal:  06/03/1994                                MTR: 12/10/1997           04/24/1998
Approval:  03/28/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/Ministry Of Education
Other Partners:  Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                          Olivier Lafourcarde
Sector Manager:      Rosemary Bellew                           Ian Porter
Team Leader at ICR.  Ferdinand Tsri Apronti                    Nicholas Bennett
ICR Primary Author:  Eliezer Orbach
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qtuality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were stated in several places in the SAR and in many other project
documents. The statements are not identical, and the assessment here is based on the 'Project
Objectives' section and Annexes 5.1 and 5.2 in the SAR. Basically, the project had two goals: "to
promote the development of the informal sector" and to "provide an enabling environment for
employment creation and income generation in the micro and small enterprise sector". To achieve
the first goal the Government formulated four objectives: "to redirect all vocational and technical
training institutions in the country towards the provision of short, focused, practical,
competency-based, demand-driven training for people already in employment" and "to improve
the level of technical entrepreneurial skills of mastercraftsmen and apprentices in the informal
sector", "to help create new businesses and improve existing micro and small informal sector
enterprises" and "to improve inforrmal sector product quality and productivity in five selected
areas". To achieve the second goal, the Government formulated one objective: "to ensure that an
institutional capacity is created for the Govermnent to have access to regular labor force,
employment and earnings data".
In its completion report, the Government is stating that the Bank did not accurately capture in the
SAR the desire of the Ghanaian team (i) to switch the emphasis of regular VOTEC delivery in
some 400 training institutions from technical to vocational training and (ii) to contain the
unsustainable levels of public subsidies and high training costs associated with long, full-time
formal training of apprentices.
Responsiveness of the Objectives to Borrower Development Priorities, Their Relevance to
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and Their Realism
Ghana's development priorities in the early 1990s were to reduce poverty through accelerated
growth. These objectives were elucidated in a joint Government of Ghana/World Bank study
published in 1993. They were also included in the Ghana CAS, discussed and approved by the
Board on April 14, 1994. The project's development objectives are fully responsive to these
priorities. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, around 40% of all employment in Ghana was in the
informal sector, and this sector was growing at an annual rate of more than 5% and generating
over 20% of GDP. Thus, supporting its development, and helping it improve its productivity was
fully in line with the priority of accelerated growth. The Government's strategy to develop the
informal sector and improve its productivity relied, among others, on the upgrading of skills in the
sector through training. The project focused on the strengthening of institutions involved in the
direction and delivery of such training. Thus, the project's objectives were in line with
Government priorities. The CAS made specific mention not only of these priorities, but also of
the project itself.
Most objectives were realistic in a general sense. They could have been achieved, at least to some
extent, with good project design and adequate implementation.
The Design of the Project
The assessment of project design is based on a notion that an optimal design aligns the features of
the product, or service, with the needs of the client. For each need, there is a matching feature in
the architecture of the product or the service. A project is, therefore, optimally designed when
- 2 -



each of its key features covers a client need, and when all important client needs are covered by
matching features. Nine key design features are reviewed in this report and are summarized:
*   Project focus - the Government, with support and advice from the Bank, chose to focus on
the enhancement of skills and the provision of tools. The main goal of the project was to
develop the informal sector. The masters and apprentices indeed needed help to improve their
skills and to acquire tools of trade, but they needed help also in setting themselves up in
business and finding employment - mostly, self-employment in the informal sector. At least
three additional factors were equally important: access to credit, access to production sites,
and post-training support and advice. But these were not included in the project - neither as
components nor as structured links to agencies that provide them.
*   Project oversight - the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare (MESW) was the key
ministry concerned with the development of the informal sector in Ghana. It was also a major
trainer of apprentices, through its National Vocational Training Institutes (NVTI). The
Ministry of Education (MOE) was involved in the non-formal sector, but not as its core
business. The two ministries ran parallel, competing examination and certification systems for
apprentices. The Government, with Bank support, chose the MOE as the lead ministry for the
project. It is believed that the MESW, or an office above the two ministries, would have been
a better choice.
*   Project implementing agency - the need was for an overall coordinating agency strong
enough to implement the project efficiently - in the face of considerable difficulties, not the
least of which was the obvious conflict between the two ministries involved. The Government
chose NACVET, even though it did not have a legal mandate and, therefore, adequate
authority. NACVET was an extremely weak organization. Its position as the key
implementing agency was further weakened by placing the project manager inside the Project
Management Unit (PMU) of the MOE, and dividing project management responsibilities - in a
very unclear way - between NACVET and the PMU.
*   The target population - The need was to include not only apprentices but also master
craftsmen. The traditional apprenticeship system at the time relied on very basic techniques of
production and out of date technologies. Many master craftsmen had only crude tools and lacked
advanced technical knowledge. Had the training been provided only to apprentices, they would have
returned to their masters' workshop where there would be no opportunity to practice what they had
learned. The project was designed indeed to include both apprentices and masters.
*   The selection of training institutions by the trainees - the need was (a) to mobilize training institutions
that had adequate capacity for the delivery of the anticipated training, and (b) to provide each trainee a
realistic choice of training institutions. The project was designed to meet both of these needs. It
included an assessment of potential training institutions and a component aimed at helping the
institutions selected to improve their capacity. It also mobilized a large number of institutions and by
gave the trainees intake vouchers with which they could go to the institution of their choice and receive
training there.
*   The choice of trade areas - the project was limited to five trades. The need was to choose
areas where the demand for training was high. Furthermore, the very active role played by
women in the informal sector meant that to be responsive both to demand and to the principle
of gender equity, it would be good to include in the project a 'fair' number of trades followed
predominantly by women. The Government selected the following five trades: Electrical
Installations, Carpentry and Joinery, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning, Dress-making and
- 3 -



Tailoring, Blocklaying and Concreting. From a demand point of view, the selection was right
for four out of the five trades. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning was selected based on
policy considerations rather than demand. From a gender equity point of view, only one out of
the five trades - Dress-making and Tailoring - was indeed a female-oriented trade.
* The modalities for skills' acquisition during instruction - the need was to balance the
theoretical content with practical application and to deliver the training in a way that will
ensure mastery. Until that time, all formal training courses for apprentices in MOE and NVTI
institutions were very long and very theoretical. Their focus was not on the achievement of
mastery in specific well-defined skills. The training provided in the project was designed to be
short, highly practical and competency-based. This was a very good design feature of the
project.
* The provision of trade tools to the trainees on easy terms at the end of training - the trainees
were going to be trained to use many trade tools. Most masters were not likely to have all of
these tools. The need was to make sure that the trainees do not forget the skills that they had
learned in the formal training once they return to their masters' workshops. This need was met
by allowing them, and the masters, to acquire the tools.
* The recruitment channels - the project was planned for the training of 20,400 apprentices and
4,500 masters. This meant a large recruitment operation requiring multiple channels. The
trainees were to come not only from urban areas, but also from rural ones, requiring
significant capacity on the ground to reach these areas. The Government, with Bank advice,
selected trade associations as the only recruitment channel for trainees, even though it was
possible to use additional channels.
While there is no doubt that the project itself, its very idea, addressed a need and was well
justified, the conclusion reached here is that only some of its features were well-designed. Key
features, such as the choice of focus areas, oversight ministry and implementing agency, were not
well designed. The Govermment agrees that several key features were not designed well, indeed,
saying in its own completion report that "with hindsight, not all of the design hypotheses were
valid". It is concluded, therefore, that the project as a whole was not well designed.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not formally revised. However, there was a formal revision of
one of the output targets, namely, the number of apprentices to be trained. Originally, the target
was to train 20,400 apprentices. This target was changed to 15,000 apprentices. Also, as the
implementation of the project proceeded, the Bank's project team started viewing the project as a
pilot, close in nature to a LIL. The objective of the pilot, if it were to be formally formulated,
would have been to demonstrate the utility and effectiveness of short, practical,
competency-based training. However, this objective is not reflected in the SAR and other
preparatory documents, and the project was not designed as a demonstration project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised of the following basic components: (a) apprentice training; (b) training of
mastercraftsmen; (c) financing of training; (d) support to apprentices and masters; (e) training program
development; (f) training of instructors; (g) institutional strengthening of NACVET; (h) tracer studies; (i)
labor market data base, and () support for project management and coordination.
3.4 Revised Components:
-4-



N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
To assess the project's quality at entry, it was assumed that an adequate quality at entry depends
on meeting five conditions. The conditions are as follows:
*     The project must fall within a well-conceived policy framework
*     The project's goals, objectives and strategies must be consistent with such a policy
framework, and/or
with Government's stated priorities, as well as the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
*     The project must be well designed
*     The preparatory work done following the design stage must be adequate
*     The project's implementing agencies must have at least core capacity to start implementing
the
project when it is launched
The second and third factors have been dealt with in previous sections; the rest are discussed in
this section.
The Existence of a Policy Framework
Bearing in mind that the goals and objectives of the project were to support the development of
the informal sector in Ghana, mainly through the training of master craftsmen and apprentices,
Ghana had to have a policy framework both for the development of the informal sector and for
the delivery of technical and vocational training. The elements of a policy framework for the
development of the private sector were in place at the time, but project documents do not include
a description of these elements.
As to a policy framework for the delivery of technical and vocational training in Ghana, it is clear
that the Government did not have a comprehensive and agreed framework. Issues such as the
division of labor between all the ministries involved in training, and particularly between the
MESW and the MOE, were not resolved. No policy decisions were made yet with respect to the
two competing systems of testing and certification for artisans. The role, the mandate and the
legal status of NACVET, were not settled yet. Many more policy issues were awaiting decision at
that time - and are still awaiting decision today. This is reflected in the facts that the Government
set up a working group to develop a TVET policy framework some two years ago and that a draft
framework has been produced recently. The draft has not yet been discussed by the Government.
The lack of a policy framework influenced negatively both the design and the implementation of
the project. From a design point of view, it was important to know what would be the division of
labor among the agencies involved. This would have helped determine which agency would be
responsible for what routine service and for what component in the project. It would have then
helped to design a capacity building program for each agency in line with its role and
responsibilities. From an implementation point of view, it was important to settle the turf conflict
between the MOE and the MESW. This conflict was bound to diminish collaboration and slow
- 5-



down the project - and it did. Equally, it was important to settle the status of NACVET and grant
it the necessary legal mandate before the project commenced, if it were to be the key
implementing agency. This would have bolstered its authority, given it access to additional
resources, and facilitated project implementation. From a policy point of view, then, the project
was not ready for implementation at entry.
The Adequacy of Preparatory Work
Despite the length of time taken to prepare the project, it was not ready for implementation at
entry. Most project supervision reports state that "in the first two years, the project was in a
learning curve and in the mode of setting up systems and processes for project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation". Indeed, many tasks that were to be completed during preparation
were eventually carried out during the first two years of implementation and even later. These
included, for example, the preparation of the implementation manual, the development of
curricula and training materials for the five training courses, the design and printing of the intake
vouchers, the finalization of the bidding document, and the design of a system for the distribution
of the tools, the collection of payments and the establishment of a revolving fuind. These, and
other tasks, greatly delayed the actual implementation of project activities.
The examples given above refer to tasks that the MOE and NACVET planned to carry out during
the preparation period and eventually did not. One type of task that could have contributed
positively to the implementation of the project, but was not contemplated, is logistical or
operational planning. Many of the operations included in the project were logistically complex
and could have benefited from such planning. But this was not done. Based on all of the above,
it is concluded that the Government did not meet the condition requiring adequate preparation
before project commencement.
The Capacity of Implementing Agencies
NACVET, the key implementing agency had almost no capacity at the time that the project
commenced. It lacked the necessary legal status, had almost no staff, no management systems
and no work systems, no office space, and no office equipment. It had no technical and
managerial experience in the area of vocational training. The lack of capacity was recognized as a
main risk to the project. The risk was addressed by obtaining Government assurances to transfer
key management and professional staff to NACVET, and by the including a number of capacity
building activities in the project. Indeed some 23 professionals, administrators and laborers were
transferred to NACVET before the project commenced, but many of them were not up to a
reasonable standard and have never worked together as a team. Their presence did not give
NACVET the core capacity needed at entry. NACVET also lost many of them later on and is
smaller today than it were when the project was launched.
The Labor Department at the MESW, and the Tracer Studies Unit at the MOE, had similar
problems. The Labor Department at the MESW was so short of staff, that the Bank made it a
condition of disbursement to address the shortage. It took two years to bring in the necessary
staff and remove the condition, and in this case too, five out of seven staff left soon thereafter.
- 6 -



The PMU was the only unit that had core capacity when the project commenced, but its capacity
was limited to matters of procurement and disbursement.
In conclusion it appears that none of the five conditions for adequate quality at entry was met.
Three conditions were reviewed in this section. The other two were reviewed earlier. The
project was not based on an adequate policy framework and its strategic focus was too narrow to
achieve key goals. Taken together, the conclusions reached with respect to each of the five factors
that affect quality at entry lead to one overall conclusion that the project's quality at entry was
low. The Government agrees with this conclusion and has rated it in its own report as
unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The first goal of the project was to promote the development of the informal sector. According to the SAR,
three indicators were to be used to assess the achievements of this goal: "growth of the informal [sector's]
contribution to national development", "improved product quality and types" and "improved entrepreneurial
skills."
These indicators have not been operationalized and no information was collected on them.
The second goal of the project was to provide an enabling environment for employment creation and
income generation. Two indicators were to be used in assessing the achievement of this goal: the "levels of
govermment financial [support] for informal sector training and job creation activities", and the "overall
improvement in efficiency, profitability and productivity of MSE operations". These indicators too have
not been operationalized and no information was collected on them.
The project had five objectives - four emanating from the first goal and one emanating from the second
goal: (a) to redirect vocational training institutions in the country "towards the provision of short,
focused, practical, competency-based, demand-driven training for people already in employment",
(b) to improve the level of technical entrepreneurial skills of mastercraftsmen and apprentices in
the informal sector, (c) to help create new businesses and improve existing micro and small
informal sector enterprises, (d) to improve informal sector product quality and productivity in
five selected areas, and (e) to ensure that an institutional capacity is created for the Government
to have access to regular labor force, employment and earnings data. It is stated in the SAR that five
indicators would be used to assess the achievement of the first four objectives, but none of them has been
operationalized and little or no information was collected on them. No indicator was provided for the fifth
objective. A summary of all the indicators provided in the SAR is presented in Table I Annex 1. The
following assessment is based, therefore, on a general analysis of the information available in the Bank's
supervision reports, the beneficiary assessment, and discussions with NACVET and MESW officials.
Redirecting Vocational Training
As indicated earlier, the project was not designed well enough to achieve this objective. To its credit, the
project did demonstrate the feasibility and the efficacy of short, competency-based training, but there is
little evidence to suggest that it also managed to convince the participating training institutions, or other
institutions, to change their practices generally, or even just in the training of apprentices. The government
fully concurs with this conclusion, stating that "the evidence of the efficacy of short,competency-based
training has not stimulated the desired shift among training institutions..."
- 7 -



Improving technical and entreprenzeurial skills
Some 14,565 apprentices and 5,434 master craftsmen received technical training, and 7,666
mastercraftsmen received training for entrepreneurship. These numbers are large, demonstrating success at
least in the delivery of training. Whether the training resulted in improvement in skills is not clear. No
systematic, technical and independent assessment was carried out to measure the quality of training and the
improvements in skills following it. What is known is that during the first half of the project many of the
training institutions did not procure the consumable materials on time and that the quantities of materials
procured were also inadequate. There was also a general shortage of instructors in technical training in the
sector and, consequently, most of the institutions provided only one instructor for the project instead of the
two instructors required. Nevertheless, the beneficiary assessment team that reviewed the project gathered
a wealth of oral reports and accounts, both from trainee apprentices and from masters who did not go on
training, indicating that skills were indeed substantially improved.
Creating New Businesses
The project was not designed well enough to create new businesses. As indicated earlier, its design focused
on training and, to a much lesser extent, on tools, but omitted other factors supportive of new business
creation. Thus, it could not make a visible contribution to business creation. The Government agrees
with this conclusion, stating that the VSP graduates lacked access to vital start-up credits, land
and other post-training support. It is worth noting, nevertheless, that all of the masters and
apprentices who benefited from the training provided in this project came from the ranks of the
poor. While the project as a whole did not measurably reduce the level of poverty in the country,
or make a visible contribution to business creation, it may be assumed that it has at least
improved the skills, and thus the productivity of the 15,000 apprentices trained. This has at least
improved their chances of setting up their own businesses, once they got access to the necessary
credit and space.
Improved Quality and Quantity of Informal Sector Prodtucts
The achievement of this objective by apprentices and masters who received training cannot be
demonstrated. The objective appears in the SAR also as the indicator of the goal of improving the
productivity of the informal sector, but no information was collected on it. As has already been indicated,
there is some anecdotal information in the beneficiary assessment report on improvements in the quality and
quantity of products produced by the persons who attended the training, but no solid, systematically
collected information. The Government believes that too few persons received training so far "to make a
significant dent in service quality and productivity in the sector".
Instituttional Capacity to Access Labor Force, Employment and Earnings Data Regularly
Finally, the objective of ensuring that the Government has access to these data was achieved partly. The
MOE developed a methodology for conducting tracer studies and successfully conducted three such studies.
The capacity of its Tracer Studies Unit has improved with the training of two staff and 35 institutional
representatives, and the acquisition of computing equipment, office equipment and furniture. The MESW
developed a methodology for conducting the labor survey and successfully conducted the survey - the first
of its kind in the country. And although the survey report is in draft form, there is now base line data on
the informal sector - a base line that did not exist before. However, these results do not represent all that
was to be done and also do not ensure regular access to labor-related information. The capacity that was
built initially to conduct the tracer studies and labor surveys has not been retained. The units involved are
weaker today than they were when they did this work.
- 8 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
The activities included in each component, the quantitative targets for each activity and the extent to which
the targets were achieved are summarized in Annex 1, Table 2. The activities may be divided into two
categories: activities that prepare the ground for the production of output, such as the mobilization of staff
and the rehabilitation of facilities, and activities that create the output, such as the delivery of training and
the conduct of surveys. Most of the activities in the first category were accomplished, though not all on
time. The mobilization of staff was accomplished initially (with a two-year delay at the Labor Department
of MESW), but many of the staff left during the course of implementation and were not replaced. The
upgrading of physical facilities was not accomplished for NACVET, and only 25 of 40 training institutions
that were supposed to be rehabilitated, were actually rehabilitated.
Four out of five activities in the second category were not accomplished fully, as planned. One was
exceeded. The key activities that were meant to produce the core output of the project, were the training of
apprentices and masters: 20,400 apprentices were supposed to be trained. By the end of the project,
14,565, or 71% of the target, received training. Some 4,500 masters were supposed to receive both
technical training and training for entrepreneurship. By the end of the project, 5,434, or 121% were trained
technically and 7,666, or 170%, received training for entrepreneurship. It is not known how many
apprentices and masters purchased tools, but it is known that only tools for dressmaking and tailoring were
purchased in large quantities, while tools for all other areas were purchased in small, or very small,
quantities.
The actual distribution of trainees by trade area was quite different from the planned distribution. The plan
was to train in each of the five areas about 20% of the total number. Only refrigeration and
air-conditioning was lower - at 15%, and tailoring & dress-making was higher at 23.5%. In reality, only
electrical installation came close to target. Refrigeration made up only 3.7% of the trainees, while tailoring
& dress-making made up 45.7%. If not for the overwhelming success of tailoring & dress-making,
NACVET would have not made even the 71% achievement indicated above.
The idea of giving the apprentices and masters choice with respect to training institutions did not eventually
work well because 12 NVTI institutions withdrew from the program. Although other institutions were
brought into the program, only Kumasi and Accra had more than one institution offering the same courses
in some of the trade areas. These institutions were situated at opposite ends of the two cities. In virtually
all cases, trainees chose the institutions close to where they lived, so as to save the cost of transportation. In
the absence of real choice, the intake vouchers did not help much. On the contrary, there are indications
that the vouchers were misused by the trade associations. NACVET states in its completion report that the
operation of the voucher system adversely affected the implementation of the project, because the
associations demanded to be paid for administering them - an incentive that was not contemplated in the
design of the project.
According to the original implementation plan, the Labor Department of MESW was to produce one
complete base line survey and two updates during the life of the project. It produced only a draft of the base
line survey. The Tracer Studies Unit at the Ministry of Education was to produce 6 tracer studies. It
produced three.
In summary, the evidence available indicates that many planned activities, particularly training activities,
have been carried out to a considerable extent, though not fully. There is insufficient evidence, however, to
conclude that the objectives of the project were achieved, partly because the activities did not cover all the
areas required to meet these objectives. It may be argued that the project was not really designed well to
achieve these objectives. Different design was required. Therefore, it was quite an achievement to have
-9-



conducted and completed even just the large-scale training activities that were conducted. But, in assessing
the project, one cannot exclude project design from the equation and ignore stated objectives. Thus, the
overall rating of achievement remains unsatisfactory. The same applies to outcomes. Outcomes are
typically related to goals, rather than objectives. The stated goals of this project were to develop the
informal sector and create an enabling environment for employment creation. Even if the goals are re-stated
as 'to achieve a change in the orientation of (at least) apprenticeship training', and 'to establish an
operational data bank for labor, employment and income statistics', there is no evidence that these goals
have been achieved. Therefore, outcomes remain unsatisfactory. The Government has rated the outcomes
of this project as satisfactory, based mainly on its success in meeting the targets for technical training and
exceeding the targets for entrepreneurial training. The targets for technical training that were met were not
the original targets, however. These had been revised significantly downwards during the mid-term review.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project aimed at creating stronger institutions: a strong NACVET that would be able to carry out the
policy-related, coordination and implementation tasks envisaged for it by the MOE, a strong Labor
Department that would be able to produce regularly employment and earnings data in the labor force, and a
strong Tracer Studies Unit that would be able to produce regularly a host of tracer studies. This was not
achieved. NACVET's role in the vocational and technical education and training area, and its legal status,
are still not settled. It has less technical and administrative staff today than it had when the project started.
Its management is weak and both the mix and level of skill available to it are inadequate. The Labor
Department and the Tracer Studies Units too are not stronger today, simply because most of the staff that
were brought on board, and received some training when the project started have left, and because no
budget provisions have been made for them to continue with their activities. It is concluded, therefore, that
the institutional development impact of this project has not been satisfactory. The Government agrees with
the facts cited above, but does not agree with the conclusion, suggesting that the institutional development
impact of the project is satisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
N/A
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Four major factors have affected the implementation and outcome of this project: (a) incomplete alignment
of goals, objectives and target, (b) sub-optimal design, (c) poor preparatory work and (d) inadequate
capacity. All were within the control of the Government, though some may be said to be also in the control
of the implementing agencies. All, except the first one were discussed earlier in the section on quality at
entry. They will therefore be recapitulated here very briefly:
Alignment of Goals, Objectives and Targets - Key objectives of this project were not fully aligned with its
goals, and key activities covered by the project were not fully aligned with these objectives. Re-orienting
vocational training was only one measure to attain the goals of growth and productivity in the informal
sector. Yet, it became the main objective. The training of apprentices and masters was only one measure to
- 10-



attain the objective of re-orienting vocational training, yet it became the main activity. This incomplete
alignment greatly affected the probability that the project will achieve the intended higher-level outcomes of
growth, employment and productivity in the informal sector. Moreover, even the narrower objective was
not well articulated, and the institutions whose training practices were to be re-oriented did not know that
this was the objective. The government concurs with this conclusion.
Sub-Optimal Design
With training at the core, the design of the project was aimed predominantly at mobilizing and arranging all
the 'factors of production' - the resources necessary to carry out the training, including the instructors and
the trainees. The design was inadequate particularly in terms of the choice of an overseeing ministry and
an implementing agency. The choice of the MOE to oversee the project, and the choice of NACVET to
implement it, greatly diminished collaboration between the MOE and the MESW and was responsible for
many of the difficulties encountered in implementation. As indicated earlier, the Government agrees that
the design was not adequate, though it stresses factors other than the choice of overseeing ministry and
implementing agency.
Poor Preparatory Work and Inadequate Capacity
There is nothing to add to the points made in the section on quality at entry about the inadequate
preparation for the project and the poor capacity of the implementing agencies. These greatly affected the
implementation of the project and its outcomes. The Government agrees with these points as well.
Finally, the Government lists in its completion report a few more factors that affected implementation and
outcomes. These include: (a) limited consultation with stakeholders during design, (b) high turnover of
ministers, deputies, managers at NACVET and the FPMU, as well as in the Bank, (c) weak
communication, (d) inconsistent policy on incentives, and (e) inflation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imiplementing agency control:
Weak management, both at NACVET and at the PMU, contributed greatly to the inadequate
implementation of the project. Both lacked management skills as well as management systems to manage
the project well.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Matters of cost and financing influenced the implementation of the project, though it is not clear to what
extent. In sending apprentices for training, master craftsmen incurred the opportunity cost of lost
production. This may have created some resistence to the training and made it more difficult for the training
institutions to fill all the training places available. Indeed, the utilization of training places in the various
trade areas, throughout the duration of the project, was full only in the area of tailoring and dress-making.
In all other areas, capacity utilization was not full. Also, arrangements for counterpart funding did not
work well. The appraisal estimate was that the Government will provide 22.6% of the funding for
this project. The Government failed to provide the funds in full and on time, and in the end
contributed only 8% (See Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing, p.2). This failure added to the
inability of the implementing agencies to achieve fully the project's objectives.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The key operations that were supported by the project are: (a) in-service training of apprentices
and masters, (b) collection, collation and analysis of labor statistics, including statistics on the



informal sector, and (c) the conduct of tracer studies also in the informal sector. The criteria used
here to determine the sustainability of these operations are:
*     The strength of demand for in-service training from apprentices and master craftsmen, and
the strength
of demand from policy-makers for the labor statistics and tracer studies
*     Commitment of the Government to continue with the training activities and the labor
market activities -
demonstrated by financing these training operations and statistical services
*     The technical quality of the competency-based training model, the labor survey and the
tracer studies
developed during implementation, and
*     The capacity of NACVET, the Labor Statistics Unit and the Tracer Studies Unit to
continue the
operations funded by this project after it closed down.
Strength of Demand
According to the beneficiary assessment, the demand for VSP training has varied from trade to
trade, as is borne out by enrollment figures. It is high for dress-making and tailoring and low for
refrigeration and air-conditioning. Generally, the demand responds well to advertizing, and is
influenced by considerations of cost and benefits. There is anecdotal evidence to suggest that the
perceptions of benefits were greatly influenced by the 'model' of training, including its short,
practical, competency-based nature. Also, there are initial indications that some private training
institutions would like to provide some training along the lines developed in this project. There is
also strong evidence that the demand for entrepreneurial training from master craftsmen is high,
since the number of trainees in this area has far exceeded the training targets. This augers well for
sustainability in trade areas where employment opportunities exist. As far as access to regular
labor force, employment and earnings data for the informal sector is concerned, there are no
strong indications yet of effective demand for such data. This may change with the new
Government's introduction of the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy.
Commitment and Financing
The test of commitment is action and resource allocation. Almost no preparations were made by
the Government to continue the training activities funded by the project and no significant action
has been taken yet to ensure the mainstreaming and continuation of the data collection activities.
The Government is yet to identify internal or external sources of funding. In fact, it says that
sufficient funding may not be available to train a large number of apprentices and that it may be
necessary to focus on master craftsmen only. The only source available at this time is the toolkit
revolving fund which has not been used until now. However, no system is yet in place to manage
and disburse the money received by this Fund. It is not clear how much more training can be paid
for from it. The ministries involved and NACVET also do not have sufficient staff for the
continuation of project activities. The Government says that it now has "a pro-poor stance" and
that it is going to re-emphasize the development of the private sector now. It adds that the
inclusion of two VSP objectives in the GPRS is a sign of commitment. The two objectives are "to
improve productivity in the micro-industrial/service sector" and "to strengthen the labour market
- 12 -



information system". These statements relate directly only to one of the two activity areas and
need to be backed by action and by resource allocation.
Technical Quality of the Training, the Labor Force Data Base and the Tracer Studies
Based on the demand for VSP training, it may be deduced that the training model followed in this
project - the provision of formally structured, competency-based instruction to informal sector
apprentices in the midst of their informal training - worked well. The technical quality of the
training is said to be high, but currently the training model does not include an objective mastery
test at the end of training. The testing is done jointly by the instructor and the trainee, and may
therefore be subjective. Nevertheless, from a technical design point of view, the training
component of the project could be sustainable, if the testing of mastery is addressed. The technical
quality of the data base and the tracer studies too is adequate for the purpose of sustainability.
Capacity of Implementing Organizations
As discussed earlier, the three organizational entities involved in this operation do not have
capacity to continue the operations initiated in this project.
In summary, the picture is mixed. There seems to be some demand for the technical training, and
considerable demand for the courses on entrepreneurship. The technical quality of the courses
seems to be good. But the Government has not allocated the necessary budget, and the
organizations involved do not have adequate staff and capacity, to efficiently continue the training
operations. As far as the labor force data bank is concerned, the systems developed are
technically sound, but there does not seem to be strong demand for the information yet, there is
no budget, and capacity is limited. It is believed that the training model and approach deserve
further attention and that they may be further developed and sustained through linking with other
activities that the Government is currently conducting through specialized agencies for the
promotion of small business and entrepreneurship. It is believed also that the labor data
component can be sustained through linking with the Ghana Statistical Services. However,
although this can still be done, it has not been done as of today. Therefore, the sustainability of
activities initiated by the project cannot be rated as likely. The Government believes that the
activities will continue and that the first indications of sustainability may be seen in the inputs of
the Ministry of Manpower Development & Employment into the GPRS. It has therefore rated
sustainability as highly likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
As indicated above, no transition arrangements were made to move into regular operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The design of the project was not adequate and the Bank must take considerable responsibility for
it, since it was highly involved in its development. There is no evidence on file that Bank staff, and
consultants working in the area of private sector development, participated in the design. Equally,
none of the three peer reviewers was a specialist in private sector development. The Bank also did
not insist on adequate participation and involvement of the MESW on the Ghanaian side. The
MESW's mandate and business were the closest to private sector development and to training in
- 13-



the informal sector. This failure to ensure the input of specialists in private sector development
and to fully mobilize a key ministry, limited the analysis done at preparation and influenced the
objectives and the design of the project.
The project was not ready for implementation when it was submitted to the Board for approval.
The SAR played down a number of readiness issues. Key among these were the conflict over
division of labor between the MOE and the MESW, the lack of legal status for NACVET, and
NACVET's very weak capacity. If the statements made in many supervision reports during the
first two years of implementation about the need to set up systems and processes are correct, then
the Bank failed in its appraisal of the project. There is no reason to doubt these statements. A
review of all the items discussed with the MOE and listed in the Bank's aide memoires during the
first two years shows that most items were indeed related to activities that should have been
completed during preparation (a summary of this review is on file).
During the preparation and appraisal of the project, the team received comments and
recommendations on key issues from peer reviewers and other staff who participated in review
meetings. Some of these were not accepted or followed. The team may have had good reasons
to do so, but it is not clear if the comments and recommendations were considered, since there is
no reference to them in the SAR or in correspondence on file.
The conclusion reached on the basis of these factors is that the performance of the Bank during
the identification, preparation and appraisal of this project was unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The assessment of the Bank's performance on supervision was based on a review of three factors:
the extent to which the Bank attended to the 'big picture', the extent to which it was proactive in
dealing with implementation problems, and the satisfaction of the Government with its
performance.
Attending to the Big Picture
The assessment here is based on two notions: (a) that the Bank must continue to pursue with the
client during implementation any key issue that was raised but was not resolved during
preparation - especially, but not only, if the Bank's preparation team indicated at that time that the
issue was resolved, or is about to be resolved; and (b) that throughout the implementation period,
the Bank must continue the dialogue on the big picture with the client, that it must continually
review with the client the progress towards achieving the higher-level objectives and goals, and
not confine its dialogue to the lower-level objectives, outputs, and activities.
A number of big issues were not dealt with adequately, or resolved, during the preparation of the
project. These included (a) the lack of a policy framework for vocational and technical training
and, within it, the lack of a policy on the training and certification of artisans, (b) the conflict
between the MOE and the MESW regarding the question of who should be in charge of what in
vocational and technical education, and (c) the role and legal status of NACVET. The review of
all the issues raised in the project's aide memoires shows that issues 'b' and 'c' were not discussed.
- 14 -



One issue - the lack of a policy framework - was discussed, but only beginning in mid- 1 999, when
it was decided to set up a working group that would formulate a TVET policy for Government's
consideration. The review shows that 39 different issues were discussed with the Government at
the highest level. All, except for one, related to the implementation of specific activities and the
achievement of lower-level objectives. The aide memoires reflect little or no discussion on
progress towards achieving the goals and higher-level objectives. The development of the
informal sector, the productivity of artisans in this sector, the creation of employment in it and
the re-orientation of vocational and technical training, were not discussed. Clearly, the dialogue
between the Bank and the Government was overtaken by the pressing operational problems that
accompanied implementation.
The level of Proactivitv
The performance of the Bank on this score during implementation was mixed. The Bank
supervised the project regularly, and the skills mix of its supervision teams was well aligned with
what the government was implementing. The Bank was very proactive in addressing some of the
problems that arose during implementation, but was less proactive on others. The absence of a
more proactive approach in some cases may be attributed to a generally high level of optimism. It
may also be the result of a desire to avoid declaring a project unsatisfactory - or to keep it in an
unsatisfactory status for too long - because this may lead to cancellation. This may perhaps
explain why the project was rated satisfactory during most of its life, while it is being rated as
unsatisfactory upon completion. Following are a few examples of both proactivity and the lack
thereof:
(a) The biggest problems that arose immediately after the project had become effective had to do
with the lack of readiness for implementation. The Bank's project team was quick to identify these
problems and to address them. The focus of all supervision missions during the first two years of
implementation was placed almost completely on completing the preparatory work that had not
been done earlier on, and on helping NACVET and the Project Management Unit (PMU) at the
MOE develop capacity to implement the project. As is evidenced by the aide memoires,
supervision missions worked with NACVET meticulously on all the components, sub-components
and operations included in the project, and provided detailed advice on how to make progress.
This point is evidenced also by the conduct of the Mid-Term Review. The review was very
thorough. It brought to the surface many of the implementation problems that held up the project
and it put in place an action plan to address them. Performance did indeed improve substantially
following the review.
(b) The Bank was not proactive enough with respect to the toolkit and revolving fund component
of the project. The implementation of this component presented serious problems in all of its
activities, from the specifications of tools to be included in the kits, to the setting up of a system
for the storage, distribution and sale of the tool kits, and to the collection of revenue from the
training institutions and its deposit in the revolving fund. This is reflected very well in the review
of issues reported in aide memoires, where it can be seen that the toolkit issue was mentioned at
every single wrap up meeting. It is clear that the Bank did attend to this issue, but proactivity
calls for more than mere attention. In this case serious action was necessary from very early on to
- 15 -



prevent what had eventually happened: the very slow sale of tools, the loss of a "material"
number of toolkits and a likely loss of revenues from the sale of toolkits. This was a major
component of the project, estimated at 51% of the project's financing at appraisal and reaching
47.7% during implementation. The Bank needed to ensure from the start that adequate practices
are followed in the storage, distribution, and sale of toolkits and the collection of revenues from
the training institutions. It needed to ensure that the right management information systems are in
place to help manage this component. This was not done during the first three years of the
project, nor after an audit report found a large number of poor practices in the storage,
distribution and sale of the toolkits. The audit report was presented by the auditors in draft form,
because NACVET and the FPMU contested its findings. Disagreements between the auditors and
NACVET/FPMU were not attended to and resolved, and the Bank did not insist on a further
review and the submission of a final audit report before the project closed in June 2001. A final
audit was submitted at the insistence of the ICR team. But the disagreement between the auditors
and NACVET/FPMU were not resolved.
Other areas where the Bank was proactive include the change of 'strategy' from an instant
full-scale launch of training activities to a phased and gradual expansion, the introduction of
further incentives for apprentices, masters and trade associations. Other areas where the Bank was
not proactive enough include the withdrawal of 19 NVTI institutions from the project, the
decision of the GSS not to collect certain data on the informal sector, which would have
facilitated the work of the Labor Department in its labor market survey, the lack of good
indicators and the fact that the Government did not collect information to assess outcomes and,
finally, the retrieval of a project vehicle from the project manager when he left Government
service.
Borrower Satisfaction with Bank Performance
The Government's completion report indicates general satisfaction with the performance of the
Bank during supervision, though it notes a number of cases where the Bank failed to take the
necessary action. Chief among these were the failure to be "sufficiently firm on (the previous)
Government honouring its funding obligations" and the failure to respond to the need to provide
better incentives to the training institutions, the instructors and the trainees.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance was unsatisfactory during the design and preparation of the project and satisfactory
during its implementation. The implementation period was characterized by a large number of problems
that resulted from inadequate design and poor preparation. The Bank's role during implementation was
therefore particularly difficult and its ability to push for progress was greatly handicapped by these
problems. The Bank handled a number of these problems in an unsatisfactory way, but it handled many
problems in a more satisfactory way and eventually helped the Government achieve at least a significant
proportion of the training target. This is why on balance its performance during implementation is rated as
satisfactory. But the overall performance, taking into account both design/preparation and implementation
cannot be regarded as satisfactory. The Government has rated the Bank's overall performance as
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 16 -



As discussed earlier, the project was not well prepared and its quality at entry was low. The
responsibility for this must be shared by the Bank and the Government.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government during implementation was unsatisfactory. Various aspects
of the project were formally rated as unsatisfactory between October 1997 and May 1999. The
status of the project returned to 'satisfactory' again only in May 1999. This was based mostly on
the successful implementation of an 'emergency' action plan designed during the mid-term review.
It was not based on progress towards the achievement of the higher-level objectives and goals,
and the build up of capacity and sustainability. Generally speaking, taking into account the
perfornance of Government during the entire period of implementation, the Government (a) did
not adequately address the staff situation in the implementing organizations, (b) did not provide
the counterpart funds in the amounts agreed and on time, and (c) did not provide leadership and
direction. By the closing date, the project disbursed $8.6 million out of an appraisal estimate of
$12.4 million, that is, 69.3% of the planned and available funds. The first two points were
discussed in Section 3. The third is discussed briefly below.
Leadership is defined here as interest and action on behalf of the agency leading the project. The
MOE was selected to lead the project. The ministry did not demonstrate sufficient interest in the
project and did not take action to resolve the inter-agency problems that held up implementation.
It did not address weaknesses in the capacity of all implementing agencies, and did not adequately
attend even to serious problems, such as the dropping off of 12 NVTI institutions from the
program - a matter that significantly affected implementation. Throughout implementation, it
was typically the Bank that brought problems to the attention of the highest levels in Government
and that urged the Government to take action.
The Government basically agrees with the conclusion that its performance was unsatisfactory,
while maintaining that the task force in charge of the project "demonstrated immense commitment
in carrying out its mandate".
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of NACVET, the PMU, the Labor Department of the MESW and the Tracer
Studies Unit of the MOE was unsatisfactory due to weak capacity and weak management,
particularly during the first three years of implementation. It improved modestly later on, but
remained unsatisfactory. The Government agrees in its completion report that NACVET did not
perform well, but suggests that the PMU's performance was satisfactory (it does not refer to the
Labor Department and the TSU ). The ICR team believes that the PMU did not perform well.
The project's overall manager was in the PMU during the project's first three years. Only when he
left, admittedly because of poor performance, did the management pass to NACVET. In addition,
the FPMU had a significant role to play in the handling of the toolkit component - equal to, if not
more important than, that of NACVET. Its performance here was highly unsatisfactory. The key
factors that contributed to the unsatisfactory performance include the following: poor operational
planning and lack of attention to detail, poor logistics capacity and inability to complete tasks that
have deadlines on time, poor communication among the implementing agencies themselves and
between NACVET and the trade associations and training institutions, and inadequate working
arrangements between NACVET and the PMU.
- 17-



Fourteen supervision missions were conducted by the Bank during the implementation of the
project. All of them were concluded with wrap up meetings, where the Government agreed to
take action relating to the 39 issues referred to earlier. These actions were listed in the aide
memoires and in the Bank's supervision reports. Each supervision report included information not
only on agreements made during the last mission, but also on actions taken as a result of
agreements made in the previous mission. An examination of this information reveals that a large
number of agreements made by the Government were not met by the agreed time, either fully, or
at all. In all of these cases the implementing agencies did not take the necessary action as agreed.
The performance of the implementing agencies regarding the toolkit distribution and the revolving
fund has been particularly unsatisfactory. The audit report lists a large number of poor practices,
both technical and managerial in nature. The report also raises two matters that need to be further
reviewed: missing tools and unpaid and unaccounted funds. With respect to the first matter, the
report indicates that the explanations received from NACVET were not satisfactory. With
respect to the second matter, the report indicates that close to 51% of the money collected by the
training institutions following the sale of tools to trainees has not been paid into the revolving
fund yet, and that close to 17% of the money collected is unaccounted for (see Annex 4). In
addition to this, there is still a stock of tools worth $2,000,000 in VSP's warehouse. The Bank
has formally requested the Government to further investigate the status of the toolkits as well as
the revolving fund. It has also brought to the attention of the Ministry of Education to the need
to ensure that no further losses occur with respect to the remaining toolkits.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The project completion teamn rates the overall performance of the borrower was unsatisfactory. The
Government, not contesting any of the facts reported above, has rated its own performance as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be learned from the ICR assessment of this project:
*   Objectives influence design. Confused thinking about objectives ends up in sub-optimal, often
poor, design. It is, therefore, worthwhile to devote a lot more thinking to the objectives of
projects and to state them in very specific terms, clearly distinguishing between higher-level
and lower-level ones. It is also worthwhile to pay attention to the presentation of objectives
in formal documents such as the PAD and supervision reports. The presentation must be
consistent in content and form.
*   It is important to provide an operational definition for each indicator, that is, to state exactly
what data will be collected for it. The data must exists, the mechanisms for its collection must
be in place and the borrower must have operational capacity to carry out the collection.
During implementation, there is a tendency to watch for indicators of activities, to see if the
targets are being met, while overlooking indicators of outcome. It is necessary to avoid this
tendency.
*   It is possible to apply design tests to the design of development projects. Such tests exist, as
was demonstrated in Section 3 of this report. They are not complex, but they are systematic
and methodical, and they help in identifying design flaws. The tests need to be applied before
- 18-



proceeding into detailed preparation.
*   There is a trade off between the duration of a project and the required level of preparation.
The shorter the duration, the better - and sometimes, the longer - must be the preparation.
But, whatever the duration, there is a minimum of preparatory work that needs to be done. It
is worthwhile to define very clearly this minimum requirement at the start of the preparation
period and to reach agreement with the borrower not to go ahead with a project if this
preparatory work has not been completed. Thinking that the borrower will catch up with such
work during implementation and still be able to implement the entire program, is unrealistic.
* It is worthwhile distinguishing between core capacity and extended capacity. Core capacity is
what needs to be in place before implementation, so that the borrower can implement well all
project components. Extended capacity is what can be built during implementation. Core
capacity is needed to build extended capacity. It is wrong to move from preparation into
implementation if core capacity is not in place.
*   It is very risky to accept an empty shell as a viable institution, even if the borrower promises
to fill it up with staff, systems and equipment. It is equally risky to rely on a new institution as
an implementing agency, even if it has all the necessary staff, systems and equipment. Both do
not have core capacity. It is worthwhile establishing whether or not it will be necessary,
nevertheless, to rely on an empty shell, or a new institution. If this is the case, the best
approach would be to fill up the shell, or create the new institution, early in the preparation
stage, so that it has time to build up the necessary core capacity.
*   It is not advisable to select an institution to become an implementing agency if its role and
function in the sector is not clear, or is contested, and particularly if it lacks the legal status to
do its job. It is risky to accept even the most sincere promises that 'a law will be enacted soon'
to establish the role, the flmction and the legal status of a proposed implementing agency.
Laws take years to pass.
*   Inter-agency conflicts are extremely hard to settle in a satisfactory way. Because of this,
Governments often tend to avoid dealing with them altogether. Also, even when a formal
settlement is reached, in most cases it is not a win-win settlement. One agency wins, while the
other loses. It is not advisable to include both in one project that requires a large measure of
collaboration. because the two agencies are not likely to collaborate effectively.
*   Schemes that set up revolving funds and expect implementing agencies to sell goods of high
value and/or utility, and replenish the fund from revenues on such sales, are risky. Project
components that include such schemes require a higher level of detail planning and
preparation, a higher quality of management and a closer monitoring than most other
components. It is better to avoid such schemes if possible.
*   Most Bank projects provide a relatively large number of motor vehicles and other equipment,
such as computers and software to project implementation units and to other units in
Government ministries. The vehicles and equipment are given to officials in management
capacity and to working units for the implementation of the projects involved. In the absence
of asset management systems, through which all major assets owned by a ministry are tagged
and registered, some of these assets may be taken away, or lost from the units to which they
belong. Experience in this project suggests that vehicles may remain in the hands of officials
when they move away from the project, either at the end or before, and even when they leave
the service of Government. Equipment too may disappear. It is advisable to require
borrowers to introduce asset management systems, conduct periodical checks of existing
- 19-



inventories, and report to the Bank.
*   If a future Bank-supported project, or a component within a project, in the area of vocational
and technical training in Ghana is considered, it will be necessary to ensure (a) that the
Government finalizes its policies and strategies in this area, (b) that it clearly and definitively
determines the respective roles and functions of each ministry and agency involved, and (c)
that consensus is achieved about these policies, strategies, roles and functions.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/limple nenting agency:
The MOE has completed its own evaluation report and submitted it to the Bank. The report is on file. The
Ministry also produced a summary which is included here:
1.0 PrindRal Performance Rat!in
(HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HL= Highly likely L=Likely, UN=
Unlikely, HUN= Highly Unlikely, HU= Highly Unsatisfactory, H= High, SU= substantial, M= Modest,
N=Negligible).
Outcome: S, Sustainability: HL, Institutional Development: S, Impact: S,
Bank Performance: S, Borrower Performance: S, Quality of Entry: U,
Project Risk at any time: SU
2.0    Assessment of Obiectives and Design
The informal sector continues to be significant in terms of its contribution to skills development, urban
employment and the gross domestic product (GDP) of Ghana. Thus, the broad purpose of the project
(promoting the development of the informal sector) is clearly important to Ghana's development. It is
clear from the general lack of ownership and full appreciation of the project objectives, however, that the
project was developed without sufficient consultation with actual beneficiaries and frontline trainers.
This begs the question of whether the project was really "entirely developed by a Government task
force", as daimed in para. 3.41 of the SAR. The evidence is that while the task force invested much
energy in conceiving and developing the project, the eventual articulation by the Bank in the form of the
SAR did not accurately capture the desire of the Ghanaian team (i) to switch the emphasis of regular
VOTEC delivery in some 400 training institutions from technical to vocational training and (ii) to contain
the unsustainable levels of public subsidies and high trainee costs associated with long, full-time formal
- 20 -



training.
A recent stakeholder evaluation workshop Identified diverse problems with the clarity of the projects
intentions. On the one hand, the first objective refers to training for people already in employment. Yet,
Ghanaians do not generally consider apprentices (the principal beneficiaries) as people in employment.
Then also, there is uncertainty among implementers and training institutions over the interpretation of
other parts of the same objective viz., is the VSP seeking to change training institutions' regular
approach to training or only to encourage them to add on focused programmes for the informal sector?
Or is the objective assuming instead that vocational training institutions are already providing some
amount of training to people in employment? Further, the objectives defined in para. 4.1 of the SAR
differ from those itemized in Annex 5-1 of the same document.
Inadequate emphasis on impact also contributed to project managers devoting their attention to
numbers of people trained, quantities of toolkits delivered, workshops rehabilitated/built. For a project
that was largely exploratory, it was not particularly clear to stakeholders what was being trialed.
However, the staged expansion -- beginning with a small number of training institutions and increasing
the number as implementers gained experience was entirely reasonable.
With hindsight, not all of the design hypotheses were valid. The assumption that trade associations
were sufficiently organized to undertake the recruitment of trainees was based on optimism rather than
fact. Again, the design assumed that a combination of training and tooling of graduates would be
sufficient to generate self-employment, and that training institutions would create room for VSP training
by reducing their intakes for the regular (formal) courses. The acquisition of skills by trainees has not
generated an equivalent demand for their services. The adoption of uniform values for the infrastructure
contracts (irrespective of significant differences in the scale of works) was questionable, Unsurprisingly,
this has been a major source of concern to training institutions. The fact that training targets have been
exceeded by a significant margin (see Section 4) in spite of significant shortcomings and severe slippage
over the first half of the project says something of the arbitrariness of the training targets set by the
SAR.
As structured, the activities per se were not overly demanding for the implementers. Lapses observed in
the course of implementation have less to do with complexity of design than with gaps in the appraisal of
the project and non-recognition of/ insufficient attention to risks such as the absence of a widely shared
national vision and the lack of requisite capacity at senior levels of NACVET at the time. This culminated
in unsatisfactory ratings during the initial years, with the eventual removal of the first project manager.
- 21 -



It is also worth noting that in spite of some leakage on the trainee recruitment side (i.e., some trainees
with no previous experience in the trade areas managed to enroll on the VSP), there is no evidence of
serious adverse outcomes. The fact that such beneficiaries were generally able to acquire marketable
skills through the project questions the validity of restricting the range of eligible beneficiaries to masters
and apprentices with a minimum of 18 months training.
Finally, the assumption that the serious risk of contestation between NACVET-MoE and NVTI-MMDE over
leadership of the VSP would be easily resolved has proved to be unjustified in retrospect.
3.0       Ouality at Enby
The Performance rating for quality at entry is unsatisfactory. The following actions adversely
affected the smooth take-off of project implementation:
*      Details of the contractual obligations were not discussed with the 40 selected institutions; so
when this was done, some schools pulled out.
*     The inability of the public institutions to make available two permanent instructors for VSP.
*      The Operation of the Voucher System by the Trade Associations.
*      The non-payment of a modest allowance to apprentices ( ref. MOTC);
*      The Bank's insistence on paying nothing to instructors, heads of institutions and
*      Rehabilitation of 28 training institutions. (Rehabilitation works was to have been done before
training begun)
*      No standard list for consumables was prepared. (each school generated its own list of
consumables)
These key inputs were to be in place for the smooth take-off of the project. Seventeen (17) instead of all
forty (40) envisaged under the SAR started the programme.
Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR), which found training and disbursement targets far behind
schedule and project implementation wanting in most other respects, a restructuring was effected. A
significant feature of this restructuring was a distinct separation of financial and training management
functions between the Funds and Procurement Management Unit (FPMU) and NACVET respectively.
4.0    Project Performance and Achievement of Oblecive.
It is still early days to appreciate the full impact of the project, but it is fair to say that the performance
of the project has been mixed.
Objective 1 (redirecting the focus of vocational training institutions towards the provision of short,
- 22 -



focused, practical, competency-based, demand-driven training for people already in employment):
The VSP has demonstrated convincingly the feasibility of short, competency-based vocational training.
Routinely, VSP graduates are demonstrating competencies beyond those exhibited by their
non-participating colleagues and their counterparts on the formal three-year programmes. Both in terms
of diversity and quality, they are also out-performing those masters who declined to enroll on the
programme. Evidence adduced in the Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) demonstrates, however, that
the availability of training consumables is critical to the viability of competency-based training.
As noted earlier, training targets have, likewise, been exceeded overall. 14,565 apprentices have been
trained [against a revised target of 15,000]; 5,434 masters have received technical training [target =
5,000], and 7,663 masters have benefited from entrepreneurship training [target = 5,000].
Demand for training spaces now exceeds supply in some areas (most notably in dressmaking and
tailoring).  But demand for training in refrigeration and air conditioning has been low.  Rather
disappointingly, the evidence of the efficacy of short, competency-based training has not stimulated the
desired shift among training institutions away from a long, theory-based culture towards significantly
shorter, competency-based training. While many additional training institutions and District Assemblies
have expressed a demand for accreditation, the evidence is that this is more a request for largesse than
an indication of a sustainable change in culture.
*      Objective 2 (improving informal sector product quality and productivity in five selected trade
areas):
Exhibitions mounted at the institutions during graduation ceremonies give ample evidence of reasonable
improvement of the level of skills acquisition by the Apprentices and the Mastercraftsmen. It has also
been demonstrated that Mastercraftsmen could undertake the manufacture of wider variety of products.
Similarly, apprentices can complete sets of competencies which hitherto they only learned by
observation.
In spite of the evidence that VSP trainees are indeed acquiring a wider range of competencies and able
to deliver to higher standards, these gains are not yet rubbing off onto the wider informal sector.
Clearly, the recipients of the enhanced training are still too few to make a significant dent in service
quality and productivity in the sector.
a      Objective 3 (creating institutional capacity to ensure that Govemment has access to regular
labour force, employment and earnings data that will enable it to make rational decisions as to the type
of training that should be supported):
- 23 -



The impact monitoring and labour market monitoring components have generally been pursued
purposefully, though with significant delays -- largely attributable to factors outside the control of the
two relevant institutions (the Tracer Studies Unit (TSU) and the Labour Market Unit (LMU)). Tracing
capacity of the MoE has been strengthened through training. Significantly, tracing has not been
restricted to graduates of the VSP, but extended to cover control groups from the informal sector as well
as products of formal vocational training programmes. Another direct outcome of the project is the fact
that the Ministry of Manpower Development and Employment's (MMDE's) Employment Market Reports
now include data on the informal sector.
The TSU, LMU and Public Employment Centres (PECs) also benefited from valuable equipment support to
facilitate data processing and analysis. However, though staff of training institutions have been trained
to support the tracing process, MoE has not undertaken the expected close monitoring of institutional
tracer studies officers. This has been attributed largely to untimely resourcing and delays in obtaining
the Bank's "no objections", a situation which is noted to have improved in recent times.
5.0    Factors Affectina ImDlementaton and Outcomes
The most significant of these are the observed weaknesses in the consultation framework, continuity
problems, poor communication, inadequate attention to fostering institutional linkages especially in areas
of micro-finance support to trainees, and to pre-empting dependency among beneficiaries, inconsistent
policy on incentives, inflation and deficits in technical capacity.
6.0    Performance oflTowm
*      Demonstration of Government commitment
The GoG Task Force responsible for conceiving and leading project preparation demonstrated immense
commitment in carrying out its mandate. However, the previous Government failed to match this level of
commitment to the project. Assurances given in the Government's own Letter of Development Policy
were not honoured, and the period was characterised by persistent delays in releasing pledged matching
funds resulting, inter alia, in high demurrage charges on tool imports.
*      Sector policies
The greater part of the project's life has been characterised by a lack of proactivity and real progress in
- 24 -



articulating a coherent policy for technical and vocational education and training (TVET). Again, this
situation has begun to change since the new administration took over this year. Credible efforts are
already underway to achieve consensus between MoE and MMDE.
Management effectiveness
NACVET
NACVET has proven itself able to manage accreditation of vocational training institutions and to
develop and review training curricula. However, there is little evidence that NACVET has set in
motion the aggressive promotional arrangements needed to ensure sustained and expanded demand
among training providers for the delivery of short, competency-based vocational training. NACVET
has also been criticised heavily for delays in processing of requisitions and claims. Particularly
disturbing accusations relate to frequent misplacements of applications and of failure to act on
decisions reached at stakeholder meetings. In particular, serious problems with toolkits (delivery,
content and accounting) remain unaddressed.  Other indications of effectiveness have been
discussed in the Section 5.
FPM,
FPMU's performance of its disbursement role has generally been satisfactory, but there has been
some criticism conceming the quality of some of the tools procured for sale to trainees and, prior to
restructuring, supervision of the infrastructure contracts, which has been a source of serious
concern to training institutions who have had to pay for shoddy, yet expensive works.
7.0 Peifrmiance of the Bank
*      Project Identification
The project as identified was consistent with Government development objective of giving the informal
sector training that will lead to productivity and market quality.
X      Project Preparation
The Bank's staff participated actively in the development and approval of the overall national policies and
the implementation strategy in a series of workshops at the preparation stages.
*     Appraisal
Though the appraisal recognised the risk associated with the dispute over leadership of vocational
- 25 -



skills training for the informal sector, its significance was underestimated in the drafting of the SAR.
It is questionable whether the project should have commenced when such an important, central
issue had not been resolved. Further, relevant lessons from previous Bank involvement in the
education sector were not adequately factored into the design. For example, there was considerable
evidence from EdSACs I (Cr. 1744-GH) and II (Cr. 2140-GH) demonstrating that GoG's failure to
promote a genuinely shared national vision of the basic education reforms played a significant role in
the lack of impact and ownership by frontline implementers (viz. teachers). Other areas in which the
appraisal fell short (mainly in its assumptions) have been identified in Section 3.
Implementation support
The Bank was instrumental in the project's restructuring following the findings of the MTR. This led
to acknowledged improvements in disbursements and in the achievement of the project's training
targets. The Bank also made significant technical inputs to the development of the labour market
survey. Devolution of supervision functions to the resident mission had a positive effect on the
speed of response to requests and the timeliness of disbursement. However, the Bank did not
correctly pre-empt the previous Govemment's commitment to financing and the Bank was not
sufficiently firm on GoG to honour its funding obligations.
The Bank does not appear to have taken sufficient advantage of her strategic position in the donor
community to influence a convergence of strategy and its unwillingness to accede to certain initial
demands made by the beneficiaries made the project unpopular. For example:
(a)   Apprentices expected they would be paid $1 per day as pertained under the MOTC programme
also funded by the World Bank.
(b)    Instructors were not paid any allowance for what they considered to be additional work.
(c)   The Bank also insisted that contractors should be engaged to rehabilitate institutions workshops
against the wishes of the training institutions
(d)   The Bank also insisted on only Trade Associations recruited apprentices even though it was
evident that some trade associations were not represented in some of the districts where training was
being offered.
The idea of tying training with Toolkit purchase was a disaster. Many apprentices already had the basic
tools.
8.0    Sustainabilitv
Given the difficulty which GoG has had raising its share of the project finance, there is merit in
- 26 -



exploring still lower-cost options for vocational skills training in the informal sector. An alternative
training strategy which has been proposed by some masters is to make greater use of masters in the
enhanced training of apprentices. This proposal, which requires a rechanneling of energies into
training larger numbers of mastercraftspersons, is clearly a more economical and sustainable
strategy with lower risks and opportunity costs for masters. Also crucial to the sustainability of the
project is the ability to recover from the institutions monies from the purchase of tools.
From projections, it is anticipated that 13,920 apprentices could benefit from funds accruing from the
revolving account over the next four years. A more vigorous effort however, must however be made to
dispose of the huge stockpile of tools in the other trade areas apart from Dressmaking to realize this
goal.
9.0    Lessons Leamed:
9.1    The Demand Driven Concept
The practice of the demand driven concept has shown clearly that it has been embrace by the
informal sector because of its focused nature. Presently demand has outstripped supply.
9.2    Ownership of the Project
The ownership of the project was heavily linked to the World Bank. The project was often
referred to as the "VSP World Bank funded project". The impression was created that the World
Bank owned the project and could either approve or disapprove of legitimate request presented
by the Institutions and the beneficiaries.
9.3   Institutional Rehabilitation
This issue contributed to some of the selected institutions dropping out of the project. Those
who came on board however complained about shoddy works. On hindsight, it would have been
prudent to give the Rehabilitation money to the institutions and charge it against their
indebtedness to the project.
9.4    Trade Assodations (COPTAG)
The potential of the informal sector (Trade Associations) to deliver has been unearthed as
evident in their performance by offering their apprentices & masters for training and the
subsequent graduation exhibitions testify to this. Greater collaboration between NACVET and the
Informal Sector has fostered partnership, which is reflected in the quality of outputs witnessed.
Experiences gained by participating organizations have become one of the pillars to sustain the
programme beyond the project duration. Also the capacity built in the informal sector has armed
- 27 -



them with the requisite skills and experiences to be more effective in broad positive
transformation of the country.
9.5    District Assemblies
There should be full participation of District Assemblies in the implementation of the project in
order to ensure a high sense of ownership.
9.6    NACVET
There is the need to ensure that NACVET and the other implementers have the resource capacity
in place to provide effective and timely support so that the demand driven concept could be
more meaningful to the beneficiaries.
9.7    Government
-      Ghana needs to reform and strengthen the traditional apprenticeship system to improve product
quality, productivity and relevance.
-      Equip the workforce in the informal sector with skills and experiences to improve productivity
and efficiency with international competitiveness and sustainable livelihoods.
-      Develop systems and mechanisms to facilitate co-ordination and articulation and linkages at all
levels and between different sectors, ministries, departments of the economy in TVET delivery.
-      The process to develop a National Policy for TVET for Ghana should be carried out to its logical
conclusion.
10.0. Condusion
The VSP has demonstrated convincingly that short, competency-based training can produce
quality skills and is viable. However, the success of such training depends to a significant degree
on the timely availability of relevant consumables and equipment. Beneficiaries are generally
poor, and the project is reasonable in distributional terms. However, greater attention ought to
be paid to financial sustainability and cost-sharing in future. The relevance of the project also
needs enhancing through greater attention to a process of national visioning (see below).
Similarly, greater attention is required towards influencing traditions in the wider informal sector
beyond recipients of training.
It is important, in considering options for the future, to note that declining to support skill-building and
productivity enhancement for the informal sector is not a sustainable option. The size of Ghana's
informal sector and the fact that it continues to be responsible for training and employing the majority of
the urban poor renders it too important to be ignored. Also, in the absence of appropriate household
- 28 -



and establishment-based sampling frames, the LMS has been compelled to innovate a new methodology
which will require further technical support to trial effectively and refine. The question then is not so
much if, but how to structure support to maximise its efficacy.
Critical conditions which ought to be met prior to the execution of a future phase of support to vocational
skills training in Ghana include:
*      resolving the continuing contestation between MoE and MMDE over leadership of vocational skills
training for the informal sector; this requires a spirit of compromise on both sides;
*      promotion of a broad-based vision around a productive, quality-providing and prosperous
informal sector and fostering a unified strategy for achieving this; this will require greater openness and
genuine consultation on the draft TVET policy with grassroots informal sector operatives as well as the
unemployed and underemployed;
*      demonstration of the capacity of implementing agency staff to manage the components/
activities effectively: options include recruitment of the requisite skills and/or focused training for existing
staff in skills such as policy analysis, curriculum development and proactive monitoring;
*      demonstration of commitment by GoG to finance operations over the year following closure of
Cr. 2695-GH;
*      a clear framework for optimising the synergies of key potential partners such as formal (private,
public) and informal sector training providers, microfinance and business start-up intermediaries
identified in Section 5, above. Without real cooperation, energies will continue to be dissipated and the
efficacy of interventions undermined.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 29 -



- 30 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Goals and Objectives                              Indicators
To support the development of the informal sector in "Gradual growth of the informal contribution to
Ghana through training                        national development" Also, one of the key
benefits of the project will be "an expansion in
informal sector employment"
"Improved product quality and types"
"Improved entrepreneurial skills"
To provide an enabling environment for       "(Increased] level of government financial
employment creation and income generation in  [support] for informal sector training and job
the micro and small enterprise sector        creation activities"
"Overall improvement in efficiency and productivity
of MSE operations"
To improve the capacity ofprivate and public  "Existence of training programs in selected
training institutions to teach practical skills and  training institutions"
run short, competency-based training programs
"Well run and well patronized short courses in the
training institutions"
"Teachers attending orientation and upgrading
programs organized under this project"
"Improved quality of teaching of practical skills"
"Increased concentration of training resources on
short-term, clearly focused programs for those
already employed."
"more efficient transition by workers from
apprenticeship to master levels"
To help create new businesses and improve  "Number of new businesses created by beneficiaries
existing micro and small informal sector    of training"
enterprises
"Increasing returns on investment to master
craftsmen"
To improve the level of technical &
- 31 -



Improved product quality
entrepreneurial skills of master craftsmen and
apprentices through training
Diversification of product types in the market
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Training of Masters and Apprentices                 3.40           2.92            86
Toolkits for Apprentices and Masters                6.40           4.10            64
Institutional Strengthening                         2.60           1.58            61
Total Baseline Cost                                12.40           8.60
Price Contingencies                                1.60
Total Project Costs            14.00           8.60
Total Financing Required             14.00          8.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         1.04         0.00         0.00         1.04
(0.00)       (0.94)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.94)
2. Goods                     6.08         0.17         0.04          1.12        7.41
(6.08)       (0.15)       (0.04)       (0.00)       (6.27)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.72         0.00         0.72
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.72)        (0.00)      (0.72)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00         2.26         0.00         2.26
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.77)        (0.00)      (0.77)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.14         0.00         0.14
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.14)        (0.00)      (0.14)
6. Incremental Recurrent     0.00         0.00         0.74         0.08         0.82
Costs                       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.74)       (0.00)      (0.74)
Total                     6.08          1.21         3.90         1.20        12.39
(6.08)       (1.09)        (2.41)       (0.00)      (9.58)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.34         0.00        0.34
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.31)       (0.00)      (0.31)
2. Goods                     3.45         0.54         0.20         0.55        4.74
(3.45)       (0.49)       (0.16)       (0.00)      (4.10)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         1.42         0.00        1.42
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.42)       (0.00)      (1.42)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00         1.55         0.00        1.55
- 33 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.55)         (0.00)        (1.55)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.12           0.00          0.12
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.12)         (0.00)        (0.12)
6. Incremental Recurrent         0.00            0.00           0.40           0.03          0.43
Costs                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)         (0.00)        (0.40)
Total                          3.45           0.54           4.03           0.58          8.60
(3.45)         (0.49)         (3.96)         (0.00)         (7.90)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank    Govt.  CoF.
Training of Masters and   3.00       0.40                2.87       0.05               95.7    12.5
Apprentices
Toolkits for Masters and  5.10       1.30                3.60       0.50               70.6    38.5
Apprentices
Institutional Strengthening  1.50    1.10                1.44       0.14               96.0    12.7
-34 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/24/1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/94                       6    Principal Planner,
Project Officer,
Operation Analyst,
Technical Training
Specialist, Labour Market
Specialist,
Technical Training
Specialist,
Supervision
10/20/95                    5    Senior Implementation.
Specialist, Staff Assistant,
Institutional Development
Specialist, Economist,
Procurement Specialist
02/16/96                     2   Senior Implementation Specialist
Procurement Specialist
10/12/96                    5    Senior Implementation
Specialist, Senior Operations
Officer, Project Assistant,
Economist, Procurement
Specialist
02/25/97                     5   Senior Implementation
Specialist, Senior Operations
Officer, Economist, Procurement
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist
07/04/97                     4   Senior Implementation
Specialist, Senior Operations
Officer, Economist, Procurement
Specialist
10/10/97                    5   Senior Implementation
Specialist, Senior Operations
Officer, Economist, Procurement
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist
05/02/98                     6   Senior Implementation
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist, Senior
Human Resource Economist,
Senior Education Specialist,
- 36 -



Economist (Consultant)
10/15/98                    5   Senior Implementation
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist,
Economist, Senior Human
Resource Economist
04/23/99                     2   Senior Implementation
Specialist, Proocurement
Specialist,
12/10/99                     1   Procurement Specialist (TTL)
10/08/99                    4    Procurement Specialist (TTL),
Financial Management
Specialist, Economist, Senior
Human Resource Economist
11/06/00                    4   Procurement Specialist (TTL),
Economist, Financial
Management Specialist, Senior
Human Resource Economist
03/14/01                     4   Procurement Specialist (TTL),
Financial Management
Specialist,
Institutional Development
Specialist, Education Cluster
Leader
06/26/01                     5   Procurement Specialist (TTL),
Economist, Financial
Management Specialist,
Institutional Development
Specialist, Education Cluster
Leader
ICR
10/01/01                    3    Procurement Specialist
(TTL),
Institutional Development
Specialist (ICR Author)
Financial Management
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                     191398.59
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                    426054.87
ICR
Total                                   N/A                    617525.46
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=-Substmntial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
a Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                      O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
L Physical                              OH    *SUOM      ON   ONA
Oi Financial                            O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Institutional Development             0 H   O SU O M   * N  0 NA
CL Environmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
El Gender                         OH OSUOM ON ONA
a Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU OM    O N   O NA
L Private sector development            0 H   O SUO M    0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   0 N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
FI Lending                                         OHS OS       *U     OHU
E Supervision                                      OHS *S       Ou     OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       * u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       * u    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       * u    O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
GIMPA Review Report on NACVET, December 1995
Back to Office Reports, Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports
Government's full Project Completion Report, September 2001
Draft Ghana Labour Market Survey Report - 2001
Tracer Study Reports
Draft TVET Policy Document - 2001
Beneficiary Assessment Survey Report - 2001
Mid-term Review Report - 1998
MOE Status report on Project Restructuring - March 1999
Annual Consultative Workshops reports (1998-2001)
Audit Report on Toolkits - Deloitte & Touche - 2001
Sample Training Manuals for Apprentices
Sample Nomination and Admission form
Ghana's Experience in Apprenticeship Training in the Informal Sector, Amankrah, March 2001
Improving Productivity in the Informal Sector in Ghana, Amankrah, December 2000
Working tables used for the preparation of the ICR:
Statements of Objectives by Source
List of Indicators by Goals and Objectives
Targets Set by Component and Activity, and Their Achievement
Choices Made in the Design of the Project
Key Issues Discussed in Aide Memoires
- 40 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26746
3- BURKINA    FASO2-O                                                      GH A NA
1 v                                                  *-JWov~~~~~TuruuNvrMaog).VOCATIONALSKILLS AND
`T;                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT
20 ~~~~~~~~2"IPROJECT
UPPER  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-PRIMARY ROADS
rapa       bi, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0DISTRICT CAP TALS
E S T                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION CAPITALS
adawli            w                           IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOLJNDARIES
REGION BOUNDAR ES
L -INTERNATIONAL
10'                                                                                  BOU.NDARIES  10'
Gushiegu     ~  ~~~Note; Red Numiber indicate
aboba  Locationh of Government
0.  Traning nstitutios
s lug                     T"'i~~~~)  reni gNumbers Indicate
LLoaions of Private/N'GO
To on 0  n p   Yendi ~~~*     Trining Institutions
.9. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~~~~~~/
r b T E                                                         T 4D G 0~~~~~~.1
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111       I                                     .j.- PJE
.-...,  -.*                              I'.~~~C
-  *1        I.              I.- .~~~~~~~~~~~'er /'
1/ L'  I  --  1 -'  -  :..-: 0  - . -l           L-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  F
~~~~~~~                                 I~~~~~~~~~2
N  -         . ,~~~~~~~~~~~~
C1.I    35  33 J--t
LI  ~  ~   ~    ~   ~    -~                                            Jo -~
G LILF OF- GuN
FEBRUARY 1995



