Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13691-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(October 1994)
Currency Unit = Cedis
US$1.00 = 1,000 Cedis
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BECE                Basic Education Certificate Examination
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CFC                 Chloroflurocarbon
CIBA                Council of Indligenous Business Associations
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
DEO                 District Education Office
EdSAC I             Education Sector Adjustment Credit I (Cr. 1744-GH)
EdSAC 11             Education Sector Adjustment Credit 11 (Cr. 2140-GH)
GES                 Ghana Education Service
GLSS                Ghana Living Standards Survey
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
ILO                 International Labor Organization
ITTU/GRATIS         Intermediate Technology Transfer Unit/Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology
Industrial Service
iSS                 Junior Secondary School
KATTC               Kumasi Advanced Technical Teachers' College
MDPI                Management D)evelopment and Productivity Institute
MOE                 Ministry of Eclucation
MESW                Ministry of Ernployment and Social Welfare
NIC                 Newly Industrialized Country
NVTI                National Vocational Training Institutes
NACVET              National Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
PBME                Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring, and Evaluation Unit of MOE
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PMU                 Projects Management Unit
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration
OIC                 Opportunities Industrialization Center
PNDC                Provisional National Defence Council
PY                  Project Year
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SSS                 Senior Secondary School
USAID               United States Agenicy for International Development
FISCAL YEAR                                     SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                  September - June    (Basic and Tertiary)
January - December  (Senior Secondary)
STRUCT'URE OF EDUCATION IN GHANA
Years        1-6           Primary
7-9          Junior Secondary
10-12        Senior Secondary
13-16        University



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT'
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY..i-i
1.    INTRODUCTION.1
11.   THIE EDUCATION  AND SKILL TRAINING SECTOR                                                                     I
A. Overview                                                                                                   I
13. Previous Bank Operations in the Education Sector               ..                                        4
C. Future Bank Strategy in the Education Sector                                                               5
1). Other Donor Support for Government's Education Reform  Program                      .        .5
Ill. VOCATIONAL SKILLS TRAINING AND INFORMAL APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS . .    6
A. Background  .................................................                                              6
B. The Urban Informal Sector  ...................................... .                                        7
C. Iornnal Education and Skill Training   ................................ .                                  9
D. rhe Role of the Private Sector in Vocational Skill Training   .......           ..       ..........       11
E. Shlort Training Programs to Support the Informal Sector.  ..........                    ...........      11
F. Key Issues             ........................                  .............. ..........                12
G. Rationale for World Bank Involvement  ..............                 ..          ................         13
Ft. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)  ..............                ....................                    13
IV.  TIE PROJECT .................................................    14
A. Project Objectives  .............................................    14
3. Project Description   ............................................                                        15
C. ProJect Components ............................................                                           16
1. Apprentice Training .16
2. Training of Masters .17
3. Financing the Training .18
4. Support to Apprentices and Masters .18
5. Training Program Development .19
6. Training of Instructors .19
7. Institutional Strengthening of NACVET .19
8. Tracer Studies .20
9. Labor Market Data Base .20
D. Project Costs and Financing  .................                 .....................    21
fl ris report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Ghana in July 1994. The mission members consisted
of Messrs./Mmes. Nicholas Bennett (Mission Leader/Principal Planner, AF4GA), P. Stephens (Project Officer, AF4GA), J.
Angers (Operations Analyst, AF4PH), S. Berkman (Technical Training Specialist, AFTHR), A. Komenan (Labor Market
Specialist. AFTHR), and J. Cresswell (Technical Training Specialist-Consultant); and a post-appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Nicholas Bennett (Mission Leader/Principal Planner, AF4GA), S. Berkman (Technical Training Specialist, AFTCB),
and Tsri Apronti (Project Officer, AF4GA).  Messrs. Ian Morris (SA3PH), John Middleton (SA2PH), and Joseph Bredie
(AFTHR), are the Peer Reviewers for the project. The report was written by Mr. Bennett, with contributions submitted by the
rifissiloi memilbers and processed by Mss. Sheila Eghan and Rebekah Kirubaidoss. Messrs. Ian Porter and Olivier Lafourcade
are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    .....................................    22
A. Project Preparation   ............................................    22
B. Project Managcment and Coordination   .......  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    23
C. Project Sustainability and Recurrent Cost Implications ..... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    23
D. Project Monitoring. Reporting, and Evaluation   ...... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    23
E. Mid-Term  Review    .........  .         ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..    .    24
F. Environmental Aspects .................. ........................ .   25
G. Procurement .......... ...................................... .   25
H. Disbursement   ..........  .         ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .   .    27
1. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting  .......  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    29
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....... .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    29
A. Project Benefits  .........  ..  .       ..  .  ... I. .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   .    29
B. Project Risks  ..........  ..  .       ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..    .    29
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                             30
ANNEXES
1-1   Social Indicators
2-1   MOE 1994 Summary of Recurrent Expenditures by Programs and Objects, and 1994 Public Investment Program
2-2   Structure of the Ministry of Education, Projects Management Unit, Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare,
and National Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training
2-3   Draft Letter of Informal Sector Training Development Policy
3-1   Employment Statistics from the Ghana Living Standard Survey (GLSS)
3-2   Results of Minimum Wage Survey
3-3   Statistics on Other Government Skill Training Institutes and on Private Technical Institutions
3-4   Statistics on GES Technical Institutes
3-5   Enrollment in 1994 in the National Vocational Training Institutes (NVTI)
4-1   Draft Contracts for Participating Institutions
4-2   Eligibility Criteria for Institutions to be Supported
4-3  Institutions Selected to Provide Training (GES and Private)
4-4   Required Number of Training Hours per Trade
4-5   Description of the Training Program (Course Content for Carpentry and Joinery as Sample)
4-6  Implementation Plan - Targets of Numbers of Trainees by Trade
4-7   Opportunity Costs of Training of Apprentices and Masters
4-8   Proposed Equipment Kit Content for Apprentices and Masters, and Optional Items
4-9   Detailed Project Cost Estimates
5-1   Project Performance Indicators
5-2   Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Evaluation Criteria
5-3   Procurement and Disbursement Schedules
5-4  Implementation Schedule of the Physical Infrastructure Component
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP:   IBRD 26746



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:       Informal Sector Mastercraftsmen and Apprentices
Credit Amount:        SDR 6.6 million (US$9.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:   The project aims to improve informal sector productivity in selected occupational areas,
and to reorient the vocational skill training system away from a supply-driven to a
demand-driven system. In particular, the project would focus on: (a) strengthening the
capacity of NACVET to respond to the short-term training needs of those employed in
the informal sector; (b) involving indigenous trade associations in designing competency
based training programmes, in selecting participants for training, and in choosing the
tools to be included in equipment kits; (c) creating closer links between trade
associations, public and private training institutions, and the Government; and (d)
re-orienting the focus of private and public training institutions away from the provision
of long pre-employment training to the provision of short post-employment
competency-based training for those in the informal sector. To achieve this, the project
would include the following basic components: (a) practical skill training of 20,400
informal apprentices in five skill areas; (b) practical skill training and entrepreneurship
training of 4,500 informal sector master craftsmen and women in five skill areas; (c)
ensuring that trainees have access to essential high-quality tools; (d) support to 40
public and private training institutions; and (e) training program development,
evaluation, and monitoring. The project is targeted at informal sector workers who are
among the poorest urban dwellers.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:           An awareness will be created of the inefficiencies of long, largely theoretical vocational
skill training for a modern sector employment that does not exist. Government will
begin to redirect a part of the resources it currently devotes to this long duration
training to more effective, short, competency-based training for those already in
informal sector employment or apprenticeship programs. Both public and private
training providers will become more responsive to labor market realities. Training
beneficiaries, represented by the informal sector trade associations will play an
increasing role in determining training course content and trainee and equipment
selection as well as program monitoring. The quality of goods and services produced
by the informal sector will improve and productivity and earnings will increase, which
will in turn lead to an expansion in informal sector employment. The institutional
structures for managing an effective vocational training system will be strengthened,
and eventually only those institutions that offer meaningful training will be accredited.
Finally, donors will redirect some of their support for vocational and skill training
towards short demand driven programmes.
The project has four main risks. First, the key implementation agency, NACVET,
though created in 1990, has up to now played almost no role in the technical and
monitoring aspects of managing the vocational skill training system in Ghana. Second,
public and private training providers are not yet fully committed to the provision of
practical competency-based training for masters and apprentices who might have very



- ji -
low academic qualifications. Third, participants in the new short courses might not
always be drawn from apprentices or others who are already employed, but from the
unemployed who are ready to grasp at any low-cost training that might lead to their
eventual employment.  Fourth, the unclear division of responsibility between the
Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare in the area
of vocational and skill training might lead to a dissipation of energies by these agencies
on matters not directly relating to project implementation. The first risk has been
mitigated by a tranisfer of key management and professional staff to NACVET. The
second risk will take some time to be reduced, as only when the institutions have
experience in providing new short, competency-based training will they be able to make
a judgment as to how they might manage such training in the long run. The third risk
will be minimized by distributing "intake vouchers" to trade associations for onward
distribution to their members. As far as the final risk is concerned Government is hiring
an independent consultant to make recommendations to cabinet as to the delineation of
responsibility in skill training between the two Ministries.



- 111 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS
(INCLUDING TAXES AND DUTIES)
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
1.  Provision of Training
A.  Provision of Training for Apprentices       2.2           3.6          5.8
B.  Provision of Training for Mastercraftmen/
Women                                     1.0           1.5         2.5
2.  Institutional Framework
A.  Technical Implementation (NACVET)           0.6           0.2          0.8
B.  Strengthening of the PBME                   0.2           0.1          0.3
C.  Project Management and Coordination         0.5           0.1          0.6
3.  Labor Force Database                        0.5           0.1          0.6
Total Base Costs                           5.0           5.6         10.6
Physical Contingencies                     0.4           0.6          1.0
Price Contingencies                        0.4           0.4          0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        5.8           6.6         12.4
(Totals may not add up due to rounding)
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Taxes
and
Local       Foreign         Duties            Total
IDA                       3.4           6.2              -               9.6
Government of Ghana       0.3             -            0.6               0.9
Trainees                  1.5          0.4               -               1.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 5.2                 6.6            0.6               12.4
ESTIMATED CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS (US$ MILLION)
IDA Fiscal Years              FY96  FY97   FY98   FY99 FY00  FY01
Annual                         2.4      1.8     2.0     1.3   1.2   0.9
Cumulative                     2.4      4.2     6.2    7.5   8.7    9.6
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Map:                    IBRD 26746



I



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1. 1         The Government of Ghana, in its efforts to re-orient the vocational skill training system
in order to increase the productivity of those already in informal sector employment and apprenticeship
programs, has requested IDA assistance of SDR 6.6 million (US$9.6 million equivalent) to finance a
project to support short, competency-based training and related activities.
II. THE EDUCATION AND SKILL TRAINING SECTOR
A.    Overview
2.1           For there to be productivity gains, it is not only essential that labor is trained in modern
skills but also that new entrants to the labor force have passed through a quality basic education. In the
decade preceding the 1987 educational reform the effectiveness of public basic education sank to such a
low level that it is likely that the majority of children completing six years of primary education learned
nothing. Most were leaving primary school illiterate. Only now, seven years into the reform, are the
first signs of a resuscitation of primary education becoming apparent, and only now is Ghana beginning
to reclaim its 1960s position of having one of the most effective educational systems in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The educational reforms have not only strengthened primary education, but extended basic
education to include three years of Junior Secondary Education, where, in addition to normal academic
subjects, there are practical subjects in agriculture, technical drawing, and prevocational training, all
designed to create a familiarity in the use of hand tools.
2.2          Despite a reform of the formal education system--involving a shortening of pre-university
education from 17 to 12 years; a lengthening of the school day and year; the implementation of a new,
more relevant curriculum; and an increasing level of cost sharing--the formal skill training system in
specialized vocational and technical training institutes has remained virtually unchanged for 20 or more
years. Almost all of the 155 public institutions and the 250 private and NGO institutions offer three,
four, or even five-year courses to transmit the most rudimentary basic vocational skills, with hardly any
attempts being made to find out whether or not the graduates of these programs are finding appropriate
employment.
2.3           Since the introduction of the Economic Recovery Program in 1983, the people and
Government of Ghana have been engaged in a far-reaching program of economic recovery and structural
adjustment. The Ghanaian program has always placed great emphasis on the social sectors, and has
succeeded in reversing the precipitous fall in the provision of education and health services that preceded
its introduction. As the adjustment program has deepened, Government has placed increasing emphasis
on poverty alleviation, launching the Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment in
1988, and by choosing the theme "Accelerated Growth and Poverty Reduction" for its medium term
development strategy. There is thus an awareness that only through increases in labor productivity will
formal and informal sector employment increase and poverty be alleviated.



2.4           The Bank carried out its first sector study and analysis of the Ghanaian educational system
in 1985, and the need for urgent reform and rehabilitation of the entire system became apparent. At that
time, in the majority of primary and secondary schools there were no textbooks, no chalk, no equipment,
and no materials. Teachers were conspicuous by their absence. The majority of primary school teachers
were untrained and many had been employed through under-handed methods. Most schools were over-
staffed not only with unqualified teachers, but also with huge numbers of non-teaching personnel. In
some secondary schools the number of staff outnumbered the students, while all the universities had
considerably more staff than students. At the same time as this general education sector study was carried
out, the Bank commissioned International Labour Organization (ILO) to carry out a sub-sector study of
Vocational and Technical Education which drew attention to the poorly qualified staff; the broken down
or inappropriate equipment; and the lack of any agency responsible for curriculum development and
quality control. In 1989, the Bank completed a further sub-sector study on "Basic Education for Self
Employment and Rural Development" (Report No. 7593-GH) which, among other things, emphasized
the importance of providing short courses from existing Technical and Vocational Training Institutes to
master craftsmen and their apprentices to help increase the earnings and productivity of informal sector
workers.
2.5           The education reform had four main objectives corresponding to some of the key problems
of the system namely:
(a)    To reduce the previous inordinate length of pre-university education. This was taking up
to 17 years, against an international norm of 12 years, and consisted of short school days
and years.  As a result of this reform, there is an increase in access to secondary
education as well as a release of public resources to be used for basic education.
(b)    To improve pedagogic efficiency and raise the quality and relevance of educational
outcomes. The old curriculum emphasized rote recall; textbooks and other instructional
materials were scarce; buildings were poorly maintained; the proportion of untrained
teachers was high; and school leavers received an academic training which prepared them
only for a modern sector clerical wage employment, which did not exist;
(c)    To contain and partially recover costs. Over-staffing was significant, especially of non-
teaching staff and untrained teachers; feeding and lodging costs of secondary and tertiary
students accounted for a significant proportion of Government expenditures; cost recovery
for textbooks was derisory; and funds were often misappropriated; and
(d)    To enhance sector management and budgeting procedures. Physical and financial norms
did not exist or were not enforced; planning and budgeting were separated; budget
uncertainties hindered planning; management decisions responded only to crises; and
monitoring was insufficient, especially at the school level.
2.6           Under the Educational Reform the structure of the educational system has been changed
to six years of primary, three years of junior secondary (JSS), three years of senior secondary (SSS), and
four years of tertiary education. The implementation of the reform program was divided into phases; JSS
from 1987 to 1990; SSS from 1991 to 1993; while the tertiary reform program was started in 1994, and
covers the next four years. Reform and improvements at the primary level have taken place continuously
since 1987, and have intensified since 1994.
2.7           Enrollment increases have been substantial at all levels of education after a long period
of stagnation. The gross primary enrollment ratio reached a peak of 82 percent in 1990/91, with the



- 3 -
more rapid increases taking place among girls (44 percent of total enrollment) and in previously under-
served areas. Grade 1 intake fell by 4 percent in 1991/92, and 1 percent in 1992/93 leading to a fall in
the enrollment ratio to 80 percent in 1992/93. JSS enrollments are 51 percent of the 12-14 age-group,
while around one-third of JSS students have been progressing to SSS. Tertiary enrollments are increasing
significantly, but still only a little under 1 percent of the 20-24 age-group is enrolled at that level. Since
the beginning of the reform in 1987, full-time enrollments in MOE Technical and Vocational Institutions
have increased by 5.0 percent per annum, and part-time enrollment by 4.2 percent per annum.
2.8           The curriculum has been reformed at both primary and secondary levels to be less
theoretical and more relevant to Ghanaian development problems and prospects. Ghanaian languages and
agriculture have been made compulsory. SSS offer both a common core and some of five areas of focus
for elective program options. Most SSS offer general arts and science and vocational options, half of
them agriculture, and one-third technical options. The elective program options being offered aim at
preparing children for both a wide range of occupations and post-secondary education and training. New
textbooks have been written for all school levels. Equipment has been provided for prevocational and
science teaching in JSS and SSS. A major effort in both pre-service and in-service teacher training, along
with new curricula, has reduced the proportion of untrained teachers to below 30 percent at primary, 20
percent at JSS, and only 10 percent at SSS.
2.9           Costs have been contained in several ways. The proportion of boarding students in
secondary school is being reduced through concentrating all new expansion on day schools. Staffing of
GES was regulated by a freeze on hiring between 1987 and 1992. This has resulted in significant
increases in pupil: teacher ratios. About 13,000 non-teaching staff were laid off at the secondary and
tertiary levels. Many temporary untrained teachers with low academic qualifications were also laid off.
Costs have been partially recovered in a number of areas. Food subsidies have been eliminated at both
secondary and tertiary levels. School supplies are now sold at cost. There is partial cost recovery for
textbooks in basic education, and full cost recovery at SSS. At the tertiary level, an innovative student
loan scheme was introduced in 1988 which, though highly subsidized as in other countries, provides for
an element of cost recovery. In public Technical and Vocational Institutes up to now, few conscious
efforts have been made either to recover or contain costs in the full-time regular program, though the
expansion of enrollments in the face of constrained budgets have led to a reduction in unit costs. In
addition, significant fees are now charged for part-time afternoon and evening classes. In private
vocational schools students have to pay fees of C20 - C30,000 per term (US$20 - US$30).
2.10          The Government has dramatically increased its budgetary allocation to the education
sector, from 1.4 percent of GDP in 1983 to 3.8 percent of GDP in 1993 (Annex 2-1). Education's share
of the national recurrent budget (excluding debt servicing) has risen from 27 percent in 1984 to 40.7
percent in 1994. However, only 1.3 percent of MOE budgets in 1993 went to Technical and Vocational
Institutes. Of the amount devoted to directly running these institutes, 72 percent is for staff salaries and
only 11.4 percent for supplies and stores. This is a better proportion than found in other types of schools
and colleges run by the Ministry of Education. Whereas in 1990, 22 percent of the education budget was
devoted to non-salary items, this had fallen to less than 12 percent in 1994, the lowest level since 1986
4(Annex 2-1). The increasing predominance of salaries in the education budget is one of the key issues
of sustainability that has to be resolved in the near future if the education system is to avoid entering a
further period of decline.
2.11          Despite the impressive progress being made in formal education, two-thirds of the
population remain functionally illiterate. Even of those who have completed primary school, more than
40 percent are illiterate largely due to the poor quality of instruction in primary schools.  The



- 4 -
Government therefore launched a mass literacy program in 1991 to significantly reduce illiteracy by the
year 2000.
B.    Previous Bank Operations in the Education Sector
2.12          Though the Bank started supporting Ghana's development activities in 1962, it was not
until 1986 that the first credit was provided to the educational sector. This came after 50 loans or credits
had been granted to Ghana in most other sectors for a total of more than US$1.0 billion. Since then
seven credits in the educational sector have been approved for a total of over US$230.0 million.
2.13          The first credit for an emergency Health and Education Rehabilitation Project with
US$5 million allocated to education (Cr. 1653-GH, closed on December 31, 1991) was approved early
in 1986, and was designed merely to get text and library books, writing materials, and other essential
supplies into the school system as quickly as possible. The Project Completion Report (Report No.
1 1080-GH) concludes that the project met its objective in getting the necessary materials into the school
system in a short time. The project was followed by a series of programs and projects to support the
Government's 1987 education reform program. In 1987, the First Educational Sector Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 1744-GH, closed on December 31, 1991) for US$34.5 million was approved. This was a broad,
policy-based Sector Adjustment Credit, covering the whole of the educational system, but with the
resources generated from the credit being concentrated on the JSS level (grades 7-9). The Project
Completion Report (Report No. 12622-GHI) concludes that the impact of the project was positive and laid
a strong foundation for further reforms in the education system. It also emphasizes the importance of
project implementation activities falling under the direct and day-to-day leadership of a high level political
appointee. In 1990 the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC II) (Cr. 2140-GH) for
US$50.0 million was approved, based on the model of Cr. 1744-GH described above, but with the policy
framework dealing only with school education, and resources generated from the credit being
concentrated on the SSS and primary levels. All three tranches of this credit have been released, and the
program closed on December 31, 1994. In 1992, EdSAC II funds were used to finance a small pilot for
this project in 16 public and private vocational institutes and two subject clusters.
2.14          In 1991, the Community Secondary School Construction Project (Cr. 2278-GH) for
US$14.7 million was approved. This involved supporting 150 rural communities in the construction of
facilities needed for new Senior Secondary Schools. By early 1995, over half the schools have been fully
completed, and over 90 percent of the credit has been disbursed. According to the Ghana Living
Standards Survey, in 1987/88, only 32.5 percent of the population aged 8 and above were functionally
literate, even though 55 percent had been or were in school. Thus in 1992, the Literacy and Functional
Skills Project (Cr. 2349-GH) was approved for approximately US$17.4 million, designed to support the
Government's mass literacy program in fifteen of the most widely used languages. Already a second
group of 165,00)0 participants is studying in its own language in 9,000 classes. Beneficiary evaluation
shows that a high proportion of learners are becoming functionally literate.  In 1993, the Tertiary
Education Project (Cr. 2428-GH) for US$45 million was approved, designed to help extend the reform
process into the universities and other tertiary institutions and rehabilitate their facilities. Also in 1993,
the Primary School Development Project (Cr. 2508-GH) for US$65.1 million was approved. This was
designed to increase the involvement of the local communities in the management of the school, the
construction of almost 11,000 classrooms with community involvement, giving the headteacher prime
responsibility for school supervision, and the construction of 2,000 headteachers' houses.



C.    Future Bank Strategv in the Education Sector
2.15         The Government announced during the 1991 Consultative Group meeting its resolve to
attempt to increase the GDP growth rate from its current levels of 4-5 percent per annum to at least 7-8
percent by the year 2000. To support this strategy, the Bank carried out jointly with the Government and
published (February 1993) a study "Ghana 2000 and Beyond--Setting the Stagefor Accelerated Growth
and Poverty Reduction". As outlined in the CAS (see para. 3.39), all future Bank lending to Ghana is
being evaluated against this strategy. In the education sector, the highest priority is given to the
expansion of enrollments at the basic education level, as "the Asian NICs (New Industrializing Country),
as well as Thailand and Malaysia, had all achieved universal primary education by the time they began
their industrialization. Today Ghana has lower primary enrollment and literacy rates than the NICs had
when their economic growth began to accelerate." The accelerated growth strategy also emphasizes
improvement in educational quality. "Besides expanding enrollments, improvements in quality remain
a major goal. If Ghana is to achieve some of the dynamic growth of the East Asian NICs, the quality
of instruction and completion rates must rise." In addition, the report emphasized the importance of
"short skill specific training courses and in-service training programs which provide a quick route for
raising the skills of the labor force. With these programs, mobilization and effective use of private sector
education training resources for technological capacity building is essential." This is the aim of this
project.
2.16         It is proving considerably more difficult to improve the quality of basic education than
was originally anticipated at the start of the educational reform in 1987. Despite the fact that there has
been a very significant improvement in the qualification of the teaching force, and all teachers have
benefitted from in-service training; that all students now have access to textbooks; that all teachers have
rudimentary teaching aids; and that external supervision has been strengthened and supervision made more
mobile, the quality of public basic education remains very poor. Despite some progress over recent
years, there are also very wide differences in both access to schooling and educational achievements in
different parts of the country. Children in the districts with the lowest enrollment rates (in the Northern
region) have about one-quarter the chance of going to school as children in the better endowed districts.
Results from the examinations at the end of JSS, show that in one region many children from urban
schools had the highest possible marks-while in the rural areas of the same region the scores were
significantly lower. The Government of Ghana is thus faced with a huge challenge in uncharted waters -
how to resuscitate an educational system that had largely died during an earlier period of severe economic
decline. Teachers got out of the habit of teaching, or even turning up at school at all, and the school was
closed more often than it was open. Key donors, including the Bank, are currently assisting the
Government in developing a comprehensive basic education development program. This program, which
is likely to be supported by the Bank through a Basic Education Sector Investment Credit, is designed
to assist in tackling a number of outstanding issues in basic education, especially those dealing with
school-based management; planning, evaluation and monitoring systems; supervision; curriculum
simplification and development; teacher education, training and placement; and the regional inequalities
in access to schooling and educational achievements. The Basic Education Sector Investment Credit is
likely to be followed by second phases of the ongoing Functional Literacy and the Tertiary Education
Projects.
D.   Other Donor Support for Government's Education Reform Program
2.17         Since the start of the Education Reform Program there has been a revival of donor interest
in the educational system in Ghana, with the focus being on primary education, tertiary education, and
vocational and technical training. The most significant donors apart from IDA have been United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), which has allocated US$35.0 million to primary



- 6 -
education; African Development Bank with US$20.0 million for tertiary education; Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) with US$14.0 million for basic and technical education; British ODA with
US$8.0 million for literacy and teacher education for basic education; Norway with over US$8.0 million
for literacy and school pavilions for basic education; and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries Fund with US$4.4 million for school pavilions and school sanitation. Other donors include
the World Food Program for school feeding, United Nations Children's Fund for primary and pre-school
education; Switzerland for secondary school equipment; and the Saudi Fund for secondary school
development.
2.18         In the area of Technical and Vocational training there have been a number of donors who
have been supporting a few institutions for many years leading to concern over the long-term
sustainability of these institutions. CIDA is currently supporting two technical institutions, one low-level
polytechnic and five Intermediate Technology Transfer Unit/Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology
Industrial Service (ITTU/GRATIS) centers; Kreditanstalt fur Wiedreaufban (Germany) is supporting one
Technical Institute; German Agency for Technical Cooperation and German Agro Action are financing
virtually all recurrent and capital costs at 8 National Vocational Training Institutes (NVTI); Japan is
providing equipment to a further 6 NVTIs; and the European Union is supporting 8 ITTU/GRATIS
centers; and various christian organizations are supporting a number of private vocational training
institutes. Finally United Nations Development Programme/ILO is providing curriculum development
assistance to NACVET; and assistance in developing policies for informal sector employment.
2.19          In order to sensitize other donors to the benefit of delivering the competency-based,
short-term training for informal sector financed under this project, and to eventually agree on a common
approach for the informal sector, it is essential that dialogue between the Government, the Bank and the
other donors be strengthened. Part of this dialogue is already taking place at the monthly education donor
coordination meetings held in Accra. The progress and results of the program once they can be
demonstrated will be presented to the donors interested in this area and requests for funds to support the
expansion of the program will be made. In addition, a Government/Donor conference to establish new
criteria for assistance in the sub-sector would be held near the mid-term review of the project.
Furthermore, the Government has developed and signed a Letter of Informal Sector Training
Development Policy (Annex 2-3) which lays out the principles of Government's overall strategy for
vocational and technical education with special emphasis to the development of the informal sector. This
policy provides a clear signal to donors of the Government's change in policy towards skill training.
III. VOCATIONAL SKILLS TRAINING AND INFORMAL APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS
A.   Background
3.1          Food processing and other agro-based industries are the most important small-scale and
informal industrial activities, followed by tailoring, bakeries, wood-related industries, shoe making and
repair, construction-related trades, motor repair and body works, and electrical fitting and repairs.
3.2          According to the 1991/92 Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS), 28.2 percent of
informal sector workers are in the Greater Accra Region, 14.6 percent in Ashanti Region 11 percent in
each of Western, Central, and Eastern Regions; 7.5 percent each in and Volta, Brong Ahafo, and
Northern Regions; and negligible numbers in the upper regions (Annex 3-1).



- 7 -
3.3          Manufacturing enterprises are concentrated in the Greater Accra Region and to a lesser
extent in Takoradi and Kumasi.  Greater Accra accounts for over 50 percent of manufacturing
employment and about 60 percent of value added; the Western Region about 14 percent and 20 percent;
Ashanti Region about 15 percent and 10 percent; and Eastern Region, about 10 percent and 3 percent
respectively.
3.4          The 1987 industrial census showed that state-owned firms or those with government
participation still dominate the medium and large-scale manufacturing sector, i.e. 28 percent by number,
63 percent in terms of gross output and 53 percent in terms of employment. Although privately owned
Ghanaian companies represent some 41 percent of the total number of firms, their share of output, value-
added and employment is relatively small. Private joint Ghanaian-foreign enterprises, are considerably
larger than wholly owned Ghanaian ones. Output, value added, and employment are roughly in
proportion to their 33 percent share of all firms. This census identified 6,213 small-scale establishments
employing 1 to 5 people compared with 665 enterprises employing more than 30 people. Earlier, more
comprehensive surveys suggested that there were 28,230 urban small-scale and informal enterprises, and
98,000 small scale rural enterprises.
3.5          Formal training for productive employment takes place in government and private (for
profit) institutions. Informal apprenticeship plays a far more important role in skills training for
productive employment. According to most estimates, master craftsmen provide at least 90 percent of
all skill training in Ghana. According to the 1991/92 GLSS, 25.7 percent of all employed workers
(skilled or unskilled) had participated in some apprenticeship training program. Given the growing
importance of training in the informal sector and its contribution to the economy of Ghana, it is strange
that this type of skills development has never received support from existing formal skill training
establishments.
B.    The Urban Informal Sector
3.6          Little comprehensive and reliable data are available on the informal sector. However,
the GLSS has shown that in 1991/92 about 32 percent of urban employment was in the infortnal sector
while according to the Job and Skill Program for Africa (JASPA) in 1989, 38.3 percent of the urban
labor force, or 911,000 people were employed in the urban informal sector, excluding those involved in
the informal sector on a part time basis.  The same report estimated that urban informal sector
employment was growing at about 5.6 percent per annum, while employment growth in the formal sector
was less than 1.0 percent per annum. The JASPA report also estimated that the urban informal sector
in Ghana was contributing about 22 percent of GDP. Trade and commerce make the largest contribution
of total informal sector earnings (52 percent), industry (28 percent), services (12 percent) and transport
(8 percent). Despite the crucial role that the urban informal sector plays in employment, employment
creation, and GDP, virtually no training schemes exist that are tailor-made to upgrade the skills of those
working in the informal sector. For example, only 6 percent of the skilled and semi-skilled informal
sector workers had ever attended a Vocational or Technical Training Institute.
3.7          Another indication of the increasing importance of the informal sector is the fact that the
majority of informal sector enterprises have been recently established. For example, in 1990/91, a
special survey in Accra showed that 41 percent of all informal sector enterprises were less than five years
old.
3.8          Of the informal sector workers, 14 percent are unpaid family members, 58 percent are
paid employees, and 26 percent are unpaid apprentices. All available evidence suggests that paid
employment as opposed to apprenticeship is becoming increasingly important in the informal sector. For



- 8 -
example, in 1979, 66 percent of informal sector employees were apprentices, in 1985 this had fallen to
39 percent, and had again fallen to 26 percent in 1990. Young people are now less willing to become
unpaid apprentices in informal sector workshops than they were in the past. A special survey of earnings
in micro enterprises commissioned as a part of project preparation showed that 30 percent of these
enterprises were paying their workers less than the minimum wage of C790.00 (US$0.75) per day with
only 35 percent of enterprises in Accra paying this level (Annex 3-2).
3.9           Most informal sector workers have learned their skills from informal apprenticeship
programs (55 percent), with very significant proportions being self-taught (35 percent). Currently, 19
percent of informal sector entrepreneurs in Accra have less than a full primary education, and 36 percent
have completed grade 10. Surprisingly 10 percent had completed 1-5 years of tertiary education. Forty-
eight percent of informal sector entrepreneurs have gained their skills through informal channels.
3.10          The informal apprenticeship system operates in roughly the same way as do similar
systems in other parts of the world. The apprentice makes a one-time payment to a master craftsman for
an agreed length of training. Depending on the skill required, and the reputation of the master craftsman
a fee of US$50 to US$200, bottles of alcohol, and sometimes a goat is charged for training for an
apprenticeship of between two and a half and five years. In some cases the apprentices also have to
provide their own tools, eg. sewing machines for dressmaking. The apprentice, who is usually unpaid,
is taught a few simple tasks at a time, and repeats these over and over again in the master's workshop.
Often the apprentice will even sleep on the floor of the workshop. In male-dominated trades the master
often provides C200 - C500 per day for food. The master is in no hurry to teach all the skills needed
to his apprentice as he might then loose a useful unpaid worker.  The apprentice receives no
entrepreneurship training and, normally, the technical training given lags behind any changes in
technology, and thus provides incomplete skills for the apprentice.
3.11          Currently, the majority of informal sector employees and enterprises do not pay taxes or
social security contributions. This was one of the main reasons why the establishment of the Council of
Indigenous Business Associations (CIBA) has been supported by the Government. Eventually it is hoped
that each trade association will be responsible for collecting taxes from its members. The central
organization, CIBA now represents 2.4 million informal sector employees in 35 indigenous associations,
including those from the Ghana National Association of Garages (which was supported under Transport
Rehabilitation Project I and II), the National Association of Refrigeration Mechanics, the Ghana National
Tailors and Dressmakers Associations and others directly related to the trades covered in this project.
The Trade Associations have now expanded their activities considerably beyond tax collection. For
example the Refrigeration Mechanics have already run training in the technology for replacing
chloroflurocarbon (CFC) with ozone-friendly alternatives, and the Garagists have been involved in
selecting items to be included in tool kits for newly trained apprentices.
3.12          Master craftsmen and informal sector operators welcome the establishment of CIBA and
proposals to provide training for them and their apprentices; however, they insist that this is not enough.
They feel that they are often harassed by government officials and ejected from lucrative sites as a part
of urban beautification programs; they face continuous difficulties in finding suitable places from which
they can operate; they often lack a familiarity with simple and basic tools such as electric drills; and they
find it almost impossible to obtain credit.  The Government is responding to these concerns.  For
example, the National Advisory Committee on Labor, with the assistance of ILO, is developing policies
to support and encourage the informal sector. Government is establishing light industrial areas where
some informal sector operators can locate. Finally, Government has established the National Board for
Small-Scale Industries which has started making small loans to informal sector operators under the
framework of the Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment.



- 9 -
C.    Formal Vocational and Skill Training
3.13          There are 156 government vocational training institutions run by nine different agencies
throughout the country; as can be seen in Annex 3-3, there is also a fluctuating number of private
institutions currently estimated at a minimum of 250. The majority of people who are presently being
trained in vocational skills are enrolled in the twenty Technical Institutes under the Ministry of Education,
with a significant but smaller number in the nineteen (NVTI) in the Ministry of Employment and Social
Welfare. In 1991/92, the Technical Institutes enrolled 12,000 full-time and 5,800 part-time students (see
Annex 3-4 for details of current enrollments by institution and year), while in 1994 the NVTls enrolled
3,800 students (see Annex 3-5 for details of enrollments by institute).
3.14           Both the Technical Institutes and the NVTls run long duration training courses lasting
between 3 and 5 years. The three-year program involves continuous training towards a certificate, the
four-year program is used in the rare cases where a one-year block release in industry is possible, and
the five-year sandwich program (NVTI only) in the even rarer cases where there is a modern sector
formal apprenticeship program. All courses are much too long, with far too much attention paid to
theory, and not nearly enough to appropriate practice. Many participants in the training actually leave
after two years, as they do not feel that the additional time will give them additional marketable skills.
The quality of instruction is variable ranging from good to very poor, depending largely on the extent
to which external aid agencies or religious institutions have been involved.
3.15          Many of the centers operated by NGOs are offering useful and innovative training. For
example, the Opportunities Industrialization Center (OIC) runs vocational training courses in three centers
for youth between sixteen and twenty years old.  Training is offered in blockmaking, carpentry,
electricity, plumbing, secretarial skills, catering, textiles, ceramics, and graphic arts. The duration of
training is from 12 to 15 months. OIC places emphasis on job counselling and placement as well as on
regular micro labor market surveys in order to adjust training courses according to the labor market
needs, especially in the informal sector. Due to this flexibility, OIC has been successful in job placement
of trainees. As no fee is charged, the OIC programs are very popular, especially since assistance is also
provided in obtaining suitable employment for the graduates of the program.   OIC  in Accra
accommodates 300 trainees. The other two centers in Kumasi and Takoradi have about 120 trainees each.
OIC shows that effective pre-employment training can be completed in 15 months. It also shows how
important it is to continuously adapt the training offered to meet current labor force skill requirements.
3.16          The National Youth Organization Commission operates four centers in Greater Accra,
Ashanti, Volta, and Eastern Regions. The main objective of their courses is to train JSS school leavers
and drop-outs for productive employment in the informal sector. In addition to skills training, the
curricula also include basic business administration, accounting, and leadership training. The courses are
of two years duration and their effectiveness is variable.
3.17          The Department of Social Welfare has 10 training centers offering training for
approximately 2,000 boys in carpentry, blockmaking, welding, tailoring, crafts, and agriculture. There
are also four training centers for girls with a total intake of 300 trainees. The centers are largely
understaffed and unequipped.
3.18           The Department of Community Development offers training for women in 15 institutions
with a total capacity of about 1,000 trainees.  The courses offered are in catering, dressmaking,
hairdressing, child care, primary health care, and home science and are of two years duration. There
are also four training centers for rural industries for male JSS leavers and drop-outs, offering a two-year



- 10 -
course in farming combined with one non-farming skill.  Again, these centers are understaffed,
unequipped and ineffective.
3.19          The Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology Industrial Service (GRATIS) has started a
training program to assist the JSS leavers with some apprenticeship experience to be engaged in self
employment. Presently it has two training centers, each for 20 students, in Tema and Tamale with a plan
to establish one center per region in the near future. The training course of one-year duration ends by
assisting graduates in securing bank loans and purchasing equipment to set up their own businiess. The
GRATIS centers also provide some training for master craftsmen in the informal sector. The training.
though on a very small scale, is effective.
3.20           The majority of the private training institutions concentrate training on secretarial and
accounting skills. Those that deal with other artisanal skills often have no workshop of their own and
carry out the required practical work in neighboring informal sector workshops. Such institutions often
charge high (by Ghanaian standards) fees on the order of US$20-US$30 per term. In theory, any private
vocational institution must be approved by the GES, and sometimes also by NVTI before they can be
established. Some institutions are of such low quality that is difficult to see how they received approval.
A few do manage to provide effective training, especially in the area of catering and dressmaking.
Similar to the public sector institutes almost all courses in private institutions are of long duration, namely
3 or 4 years. There is an Association of Proprietors of Private Vocational Training Institutes whiicl is
involved in improving the quality of private sector training.
3.21          There are two pre-service teacher training institutions for training technical and vocational
teachers - the Kumasi Advanced Technical Teachers' College (KATTC) and Technical Teachers' College
at Mampong. Because of the lack of previous industrial experience of trainees, the colleges operate bothl
as Technical Training Centers and as a Teacher Training Centers. The KATTC is well equipped witlh
a large number of power tools which are rarely found in the technical training institutions or formal or
informal workshops. The college is in the process of being integrated as a University College undler the
University of Science and Technology in Kumasi.
3.22           The majority of instructors in public and private institutions are drawn directly ftrom]
graduates of Technical Institutes and Polytechnics and have rarely had industrial experience or pedagogic
training. From time to time NVTI offers short, in-service training programs for both public and private
instructors. There are many difficulties in obtaining participation of private school instructors, as the
owners of the private institutions are often unwilling to provide the necessary night and transport
allowances for their staff.
3.23          Currently there are two competing examination/certification systems in operation. Firstly,
the GES Technical Institutes use localized City and Guilds examinations; while NVTI and niuclh of the
private sector use specially developed NVTI trade tests. Few small-scale and informal sector employers
pay any attention to the certificates a person has, but insist on seeing the competencies and skills he can
show. Ghana like many other countries will have to move away from formal examinations in the skill
training area towards a process of continuous assessment of specific competencies gained in anid out of
training institutions.
3.24          In 1990, the Government established the National Council for Technical an d Vocational
Education and Training (NACVET) which is jointly under the Ministry of Education and the Ministry
of Employment and Social Welfare and whose structure is shown in Annex 2-2. Eventually it will be
responsible for school accreditation, curriculum development, testing, statistics, and industrial relations.
It will also be responsible for monitoring and evaluation, policy analysis, and for assessing the quality



- 11 -
of the training programs carried out by the institutions supported by the project as well as those financed
by other donors. An Executive Director and his Deputy have been formally appointed and are in post
and NACVET has recently been allocated adequate professional staff to carry out its project-related
mandiate.
D.    The Role of the Private Sector in Vocational Skill Training
3.25          Apart from the 250 private training institutions discussed in para. 3.13 and 3.20 above,
there are a number of larger or well established employers which run their own training centers. For
examiiple, both Mercedez Benz and Mechanical Lloyd (for BMW) run training schools for mechanics for
their vehicles. Other large private companies have formal apprenticeship programs for their staff.
3.26           NVTI has, as a major part of its original mandate, the running of in-plant training
programs for private enterprises which are ready to pay the full costs of the training. Because in many
areas NVTI does not have suitably qualified and experienced staff, the demand for such training is
limited. More significant are the informal linkages that exist between various Technical Institutes and
the largest private and parastatal organizations. For example, a significant proportion of the output of
St. Joseph's Technical Institute, Kukurantumi, is absorbed by the Volta River Authority. However, there
is currently no contract training done for private companies by technical institutes.
E.    Short Training Programs to Support the Informal Sector
3.27          In recent years, the Government has designed and run three different types of short
training programs to support the informal sector which have provided some guidance in the preparation
of this project. The first of these involved training redeployees, using master craftsmen; the second
involved training master craftsmen and apprentices in the garage business; while the third was a pilot for
this project in which informal sector apprentices were trained in public and private training institutions.
3.28           Redeployment Training Program--Structural Adiustment Program.  As a part of a
downsizing exercise of the public service, about 50,000 persons have been redeployed since 1987. Of
these, 16,000 indicated an interest in being retrained in vocational skills. Short training programs (from
3 weeks to 6 months) were designed to be implemented in 43 existing government training institutions
but were poorly patronized. An innovative approach was then developed using local master craftsmen
who were selected and contracted to train the redeployees, 50 percent of the contract fee was paid up-
front, and the remaining 50 percent on completion of the training. A limited number of small equipment
kits were also provided to the redeployees at half the cost of their procurement. To date, no evidence
is available in terms of the number of trainees that were working productively in the field of their training
on co[impletion of their training. However, the demand for the equipment kits was less than anticipated
as the tools wvere not of high quality.
3.29          Master Mechanics and Apprentices Training Program--Transport Rehabilitation Projects
(TRP). A pilot program was carried out under IDA's First and Second Transport Rehabilitation Projects
which provided short-term training for master mechanics (6 weeks) and apprentices (12 weeks) at the
Kumasi Technical Institute. A competency-based learning approach was used throughout the program.
This method made it possible to teach both literates and illiterates in the same classroom. A key element
of the traininig program were the incentives provided through allowances given to the instructors, master
craftsmiien, and even apprentices attending the program. The institute was also supplied with training
equipmenit while small tool kits were given to the participants at the end of the training. The average
class size was about 10 for master mechanics and 20 for apprentices. The subject areas covered under
the program included autobody works and repairs, auto mechanics and auto electrical repairs. This



- 12 -
program was expanded to Accra Technical Training Center and Ho Polytechnic. An additional 2-week
component covering a management and entrepreneurship for master craftsmen was run by the
Management, Development, and Productivity Institute (MDPI).
3.30           This program  was important as it was the first training program  in Ghana that was
designed and implemented with the full involvement of a trade association (the Ghanaian Association of
Garages); was entirely competency based., trained both master craftsmen and apprentices; and only trained
those who were already in employment. The program was very popular, especially with the apprentices
who were provided with an allowance of US$1 per day which was higher than their normal earnings, and
at the end of their training were also provided with tool kits costing about US$75 at no cost. Apprentices
in other trade areas are well aware of the generosity of the TRP supported training and hope that they
will receive the same benefits. A survey of those who passed through the training showed that about
one-fourth of apprentices trained had established their own business within a year of completing the
training and that the masters wanted more frequent training and would be willing to attend without any
allowances or equipment kits if necessary. However, wanted only half-day training, so they would have
time to look after their workshops while they were in training.
3.31          Post-JSS Apprentices Training Pilot Program--EdSAC II. The third of these short training
programs was designed specifically to upgrade the skills of young apprentices, most of whom were
graduates of JSS and had spent at least 18 months either as apprentices or employees in informal sector
workshops. Training took place between September 1992 and March 1993 in 16 private and public
institutions in two areas, namely, electrical wiring and appliance repair; and arts and crafts (carving,
leather work, and weaving).
3.32           The program was organized and run by an ad hoc task force which was responsible for
the selection of the institutions, the training of trainers, and for developing the necessary instructional
materials.  The heads of the institutions were in turn responsible for selecting the instructors and
apprentices. These institutions were responsible for promoting the program using mass media, churches
and other local media. The trainees were then selected through a competency assessment and interviews.
There was an average class size of 20. The instructors were paid daily allowances while heads and
proprietors were given a lump sum payment at the end of the three-month term. The institutions were
also supplied with training materials and equipment. An evaluation at the end of the training showed that
trainers were satisfied with the training given.  Again, there is no information on whether or not
graduates increased their productivity or established their own businesses.
F.    Key Issues
3.33          The visits to dozens of public and private training institutions which took place during
preparation and appraisal identified a number of key issues that will have to be addressed in any project
that is designed to provide high-quality, competency-based training, namely, obsolete training
facilities/workshops, inadequate equipment and tools, lack of up-dated modules of employable skills, lack
of a comprehensive system of national examinations, testing and certification; and inadequate training
programs for instructors. As far as staffing of the institutions is concerned, there is poor job definition,
inadequate delegation of roles and responsibilities, inadequate supervision of staff, poor staff appraisal
procedures, and few staff development opportunities. Even the better staffed and equipped centers are
using curricula and methods more than 20 years out-of-date and are hardly helping graduates find
productive employment. The duration of training is universally too long, and the training too theoretical.
3.34          The traditional apprenticesDhip system also has deficiencies. In this period of technological
advancement, it still relies on very basic techniques of production and out-of-date technologies.



- 13 -
Normally, only the crudest of tools are used. The apprentice tends to learn through repetition of a limited
of number or tasks, without seeing how any one task fits into a total system.  Entrepreneurship,
estimating, and marketing are not dealt with at all.
3.35          The findings of the appraisal mission are consistent with the Bank's Skills for Production
paper namely "the high opportunity and direct costs of long formal programs, combined with
comparatively low earning in the informal sector are likely to lead to low (social) rates of return." The
employment potential and the huge training need in micro-enterprises suggests that existing vocational
and educational training institutions should indeed be encouraged to provide short, appropriate, and
productivity-enhancing training to informal sector workers in a flexible way at convenient times.
3.36           Successful training for the informal sector is dependent on getting a number of vocational
institutions to move from a supply-driven to a demand-driven approach, getting institutions to respond
to the needs of formal and informal sector employers, rather than merely turning out large numbers of
youths with inappropriate formal qualifications. It is thus considered crucial for these institutions to
become involved in training those already in employment, so that the reality of the Ghanaian employment
situation can be brought into the classroom. This raises two further issues - how to attract those already
in employment to attend vocational training institutions; and how to persuade some of the more
established training institutions to take such people in, given the complications they will face in dealing
with trainees of differing background and needs.
G.    Rationale for World Bank Involvement
3.37           Data from the 1991/92 GLSS and recent government macro-economic policies have shown
that the modern wage sector in Ghana cannot absorb more than a small fraction of those who enter the
labor market. This is attributable to the relatively small size of the wage economy, the downsizing of
the public sector, the divestiture of state enterprises, the closing of inefficient industries, and increased
capacity utilization of private enterprises, combined with the rapid growth in the number of newly
educated entrants to the labor force.
3.38           According to recent labor market analysis, the total number of jobs in the activities to
which basic school leavers might aspire is only twice as high as the annual number of school leavers.
A modern labor force attrition rate of 3 percent per year and 5 percent growth rate would provide only
30,000 jobs per year. The analysis rightly concludes that even if all jobs were taken by JSS leavers, only
about 15 percent would find regular paid employment. It is thus only the agricultural sector, and the
rural and urban informal sector which has major potential for employment growth over the next few
years. Despite this, very little attention is devoted to training for the informal sector. Only if the
majority of Ghanaians can be productively employed can the Government's and the Bank's objectives of
poverty reduction and accelerated growth have a chance of being achieved. This support to enhance the
productivity of the informal sector must be an integral part of the Government's longer-term development
strategy.
H.    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
3.39          The project is specifically mentioned in the CAS that was discussed by the Board on April
14, 1994. Specifically, it aims to reduce poverty (para. 40 of the CAS); support the provision of training
services through private sector institutions (para. 42 of CAS); increase the capacity of local institutions
to manage the economy (para. 43 of the CAS); and assist in technology diffusion (para. 31 of the CAS).



- 14 -
3.40          A comparison of the 1987/88 and the 1991/92 GLSS shows that an increasing percentage
of the population in Accra and other large cities are classified as poor. Informal sector apprentices are
among the urban poor and this project, by increasing the productivity and eventual earnings of these
informal sector workers, will help reduce urban poverty. The project will support a total of about 40
training institutions, of which 26 will be private. This is the first Bank education project in Ghana that
will provide direct assistance to private sector education and training institutions. To date, there has been
an almost complete lack of labor force, employment, and earning statistics. The project will support both
the Ghana Statistical Service and the Labor Department of MESW in developing a capacity to provide
such data on a regular basis. It will also enhance the capacity of the MOE to carry out tracer studies to
find out what is happening to graduates of various programs run by the Ministry.
3.41          This project has taken a long time to develop in order to ensure that the quality at entry
(para. 50 of CAS) is high. According to the CAS, projects should have shorter life spans - this project
is to be implemented over five and a half years. The CAS also emphasized that there should be greater
Government involvement in project preparation - the project was entirely developed by a Government task
force. There should be involvement of implementing agencies in the project design stage - not only were
there four workshops involving beneficiaries, but also the leader of the Government task force has since
been appointed as the Project Manager for all vocational projects under the MOE.
3.42          Given the paucity of reliable data on the informal sector and its training needs, it is felt
that the first project in this area should be relatively small, dealing with a limited number of trades and
institutions. The effectiveness of this approach and the degree of resistance from institutions as they
move away from time-based to competency-based training will be carefully monitored. In addition, labor
force data will be collected and used to identify skill areas that should be dealt with in any future
programs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Obiectives
4.1            The project has three main objectives. First, to redirect the focus of both public and
private  vocational training  institutions  towards  the  provision  of short,  focused, practical,
competency-based, demand-driven training for people already in employment.  Second, to improve
informal sector product quality and productivity in five selected occupational areas. Third, to ensure that
an institutional capacity is created that will ensure that Government has access to regular labor force,
employment, and earnings data that will enable it to make rational decisions as to the types of training
that should be supported.
4.2           To achieve the above objectives, a number of secondary objectives have been defined to
(a) strengthen the linkages between trade associations, and public and private training institutions; (b)
improve the content and relevance of training activities including entrepreneurial training; (c) ensure that
graduating trainees have the necessary tools to productively apply what they have learned; and (d)
establish a viable system for monitoring and analyzing the labor market on a continual basis. The success
of these activities will be measured by (a) improved quality of products and services in the selected
occupational areas; (b) a more efficient transition by workers from apprenticeship to master levels; (c)
increased numbers of small business start-ups as more apprentices become fully qualified; and (d) an
increased concentration of training resources on short-term, clearly-focused programs for those already
employment.



- 15 -
B. Project Description
4.3            The project is comprised of the following basic components designed to achieve the
objectives noted above: (a) apprentice training; (b) mastercraftsman training; (c) support to public and
private training institutions; (d) the provision of: workplace, tools, and equipment for trainees; (e)
training program development; (f) the strengthening of NACVET, including for curriculum and materials
development, monitoring and evaluation; (g) the establishment of a dynamic labor market data base
system; and (h) support for project management and coordination. As a result of surveys carried out
during project preparation, the occupational areas selected for inclusion in the project are the following:
(a)     Electrical Installation based upon the anticipated expansion of employment in this
occupational field as a result of the national electrification program;
(b)     Refrigeration and Air Conditioning as an extension of electrical installation and the
anticipated expansion of the electric power network, and also to meet the environmental
needs to introduce non-CFC technologies;
(c)     Carpentry and Joinery based upon the potential for expansion of these occupations
following new export regulations designed to increase the value added of timber exports;
(d)     Dressmaking and Tailoring to improve quality, productivity, and efficiency in these
occupations, and to increase the earning power of women; and
(e)     Blockmaking and Concreting to improve the quality and durability of housing and public
infrastructure, and increase the efficiency of the construction industry.
4.4            Support in the above occupational areas will focus on (a) short duration courses for
apprentices and master craftsmen and women; (b) assistance in obtaining tools and equipment to improve
the quality of their production when they return to the workplace; and (c) through an accreditation
process, and tracer studies to enable the program to be continuously improved.  As the project is
primarily designed to assist persons already employed, extensive participation of the relevant trade
associations in (a) training program content; (b) tool and equipment specification; (c) trainee selection;
and (d) program evaluation will be an essential aspect of project implementation. The trade associations
have reached different stages of development in different trade areas. The most highly developed are in
the fields of refrigeration and air conditioning, and dressmaking and tailoring, where there are national
executives, and branches throughout the country. The least developed is in the area of blockmaking and
concreting where there are only highly localized small-scale associations. The other two trades are
somewhere in between. The differing state of development of the associations is one of the variables that
will be looked at during program evaluation.
4.5            The delivery of training services to the target population will be carried out by at least
14 Government and 26 privately-owned training institutions who are expected to conduct an average of
three training cycles per year in each trade for approximately 5,000 apprentices and 1,000 masters. Over
the four years of full-scale project implementation, it is anticipated that roughly 25,000 persons will be
upgraded in the various occupational areas.
4.6            These institutions have been selected after an extensive survey of a much larger number,
including an analysis of the facilities, equipment, and staffing at each center and the geographical
distribution of training places compared with the distribution of informal sector employees from the
1991/92 GLSS; and from the membership of the trade associations. This can be seen in Table 1.



- 16 -
Table 1. Regional Distribution of Training Places and Informal Sector Employment
GlAccra  Ashanti  Eastern   Western  Central   Volta    B/A    Northern   Upper/E   Upper Wcst
Region   Region   Region   Region   Region   Region   Region    Region  Region
Trade
Association
Members      42.6    20.5     8.1     8.0      7.4    5.2      4.6      2.0     1.6        1.6
GLSS
Informal
Sector       31.8    19.3     8.6     9.6    10.3    6.8       9.3      3.9     0.4         0.4
Employees
Training     31.4    15.1    14.0      2.3     7.0     8.1     7.0      9.8     9.3         9.3
Places
4.7             Support for the various training institutions will be given once a contract agreement has
been signed by the MOE and the institutions (Annex 4-1) and will encompass (a) rehabilitation of the
physical infrastructure; (b) the provision of tools and equipment; (c) staff training; (d) the development
of course content; and (e) tuition fees. As part of the training program, apprentices and masters will be
assisted in obtaining relevant tools and equipment at subsidized prices, which will be provided to those
who successfully complete the training.
Training of Master Craftsmen and Women
4.8            Although there will be some imbalances in the provision of training places due to
geographic and demographic considerations, attempts will be made to ensure some degree of equity
through the use of "intake vouchers" (see para. 4.10 below). In addition, training institutions may be
added to the program if they meet the predetermined eligibility criteria (although this will be somewhat
restricted to those schools that require little or no rehabilitation works), while others may be dropped if
they do not maintain acceptable instructional delivery standards (Annex 4-2).
C.    Proiect Components
1. Apprentice Training
4.9            This component is the heart of the project and will provide short-term, competency-based
practical courses to be conducted by selected government and private training institutions. A list of the
institutions and the courses that they will offer is found in Annex 4-3. These courses will focus entirely
upon the development of occupational skills and will center around demonstrations by the instructors to
be followed with practical exercises carried out by the trainees. Depending upon the competencies to be
covered, course duration will vary from 12 to 24 weeks, with trainees attending some form of block or
time release arrangements that have already been mutually agreed between representatives of the trade
associations and the training institutions Annex 4-4. All instruction will be evaluated according to the
trainees' ability to perform clearly defined tasks Annex 4-5. Course duration will be based upon actual
course content and not upon pre-determined or arbitrary time frames. As shown in Annex 4-6, 20,400
apprentices and 4,500 masters will be trained.
4.10           Only apprentices or those working under masters who are members of the trade
associations will be eligible for admittance into these short training programs. At the beginning of each
year, NACVET will distribute a number of "intake vouchers" to local or national executives of the trade
associations, the number of these vouchers being dependent on the number of available training places



- 17 -
in that subject area. The association will distribute these to their member mastercraftsmen, who will then
distribute to deserving apprentices or workers. The voucher will include the name and address of the
master, and the name of the selected apprentice. The apprentice will then be responsible for finding his
own training center in a public or private institution near his place of work. The institution will only be
allowed to accept trainees who have the intake vouchers, as fees from Government will be paid against
validated intake vouchers. The institutions with the better reputation will also be able to administer a skill
test to potential candidates, and select these with the highest skill levels.
4.11           Public Training Institutions. Fourteen public training institutions have been selected and
are willing to carry out this short competency-based training. Ten of these are Technical Institutes being
run by GES, and four by NVTI, providing in total 53 percent of training places under this project. Two
of the institutes will be providing training in all five areas, and a further six in four areas (Annex 4-3).
In each area there will be three courses per year. Funds for building rehabilitation and maintenance not
exceeding CIO million (US$10,000 equivalent) will be provided for each subject area in each school, and
in addition equipment and tools not exceeding US$12,000 will be provided for each subject. Two
instructors per subject area will be retrained, and fees of between C30,000 and C60,000 (US$30 and
US$60) per apprentice per course will be charged. C 10,000 (US$10) of those fees will be paid up-front
by the apprentice and used to defray the initial investment in works and equipment.
4.12           Private and NGO Training Institutions.  Eleven NGO  and fifteen private for-profit
institutions have been selected and are willing to run short, competency-based courses. Only two of these
institutions are competent to carry out training in four subject areas, with the rest only able to run courses
in one or two areas. The private institutions will be provided with the same level and type of support
as the public institutions, except that private institutions will only be provided with a building
rehabilitation and maintenance allocation of C3 million (US$3,000) per subject. Again, fees will be
charged and used to defray the initial investment in works and equipment.
2.      Training of Masters
4.13           The mastercraftsman or woman is the key trainer of all informal sector workers. It is thus
important that he/she is kept abreast of new appropriate technologies. During the preparation of this
project there were frequent discussions of the precise skills in which the masters would like to be trained.
In addition to technical skills, there was an almost universal demand for training in entrepreneurial, cost
estimation and accounting skills.
4.14           When possible the training of masters should precede that of the apprentices, so that it
can reinforce the apprentice training. As with apprentice training, "intake vouchers" for master training
will be distributed by NACVET to the trade associations for onward transmission to their members. The
training of masters is considerably more complex than that of apprentices for several reasons. First, there
are only about 9 public and no private institutions that are suitably staffed to run the higher level of
training required by masters, and for some masters there will be no nearby institutions. Second, masters
require both technical and entrepreneurship training; the former will be run by technical institutes, the
latter will be run by the (MDPI) in Accra, Kumasi, and four other regional centers. Third, the master
cannot be absent from his workshop or business for any length of time. Thus, in general, courses have
to be provided in a more flexible way than is the case with apprentices. In some trades, masters require
training every other week, in others three hours a day, and yet others three days per week. Masters will
also be expected to pay a fee of C20,000 (US$20) for participation in the training. However, where
management training is far from their workshops they will be provided with rudimentary accommodation
and meals.



- 18 -
3.     Financin,e the Training
4.15          All institutions participating in this program will sign a contract agreement, committing
themselves to provide a given number of courses (in a limited number of subjects) for a given number
of students in return for receiving facility rehabilitation funds, equipment, and staff training. Private
schools that fail to deliver the specified training will be committed to (a) return the tools and equipment
to the MOE or pay the full or prorated cost of these items; and (b) pay the full or prorated cost of facility
repairs and renovation. A draft framework contract agreement to be used with the selected institutions
has been presented to IDA and is included in Annex 4-1.
4.16          All trainees, both masters or apprentices will normally pay a fee of C20,000 or C 10,000
(US$10 to US$20), respectively, to the institutions where the training will take place. This fee will be
used by the institutions to purchase the necessary consumable materials needed for the training. Upon
successful completion of the training, certification of the trainees, inclusion of their names for potential
tracer study follow-up, and presentation of the validated "intake voucher" to the Government, the
institution will be provided with an additional fee to defray the incremental cost of training provided,
ranging from C20,000 and C50,000 (US$20 and US$50) per trainee, depending on the length and level
of the training. Approximately C5,000 (US$5) of this will be paid directly by the Government from its
own matching funds, and the remainder drawn from the proceeds from the sale of tool and equipment
kits, deposited in the revolving fund as described in para. 4.19 below.
4.17          For entrepreneurship training, proposals were invited from a shortlist of four local training
institutions. MDPI submitted the most appropriate proposal which will last for two weeks. MDPI's
proposed training will last for two weeks. MDPI will be paid a fixed fee of C60,000 (US$60) per
trainee for courses run in Accra and Kumasi (where they have training centers), and C150,000 (US$15)
per trainee elsewhere, the additional C90,000 (US$90) to cover the boarding and lodging of the masters
and their staff, and the hiring of a training venue.
4.      Support to Apprentices and Masters
4.18          Experience has shown that a skill not used is easily forgotten. Trained workers soon lose
acquired skills and have difficulty in improving their productivity when they lack the tools and equipment
in the work place needed to practice the new skills. For this reason, an important component of the
project will provide tools and equipment to the apprentices and masters participating in the training
program. Following recommendations by the trade associations on the types of tools and equipment most
needed in the selected occupations, the project will procure basic tool kits for the apprentices and master
trainees. These tool kits will be available for purchase by the trainees at a subsidized cost at the end of
their training. During the series of workshops held with beneficiary groups the ability of apprentices to
pay for the tools was investigated. This varied from C25,000 (US$25) for masons to C100,000 (US$100)
for refrigeration technicians and is combined with the opportunity cost of the training (Annex 4-7) which
establishes the maximum cost of the tool kit in any area. The content of each of these tool kits within
the cost parameters has been decided in consultation with the trade associations. A similar process has
been followed in determining the size and composition of the tool kits for masters (Annex 4-8). The
actual ability to pay for the kits by apprentices and masters will be closely monitored during the early
years of the project and, if necessary, the size of the kits will be adjusted to ensure that they are
affordable.
4.19          The tool kits will be sent to the institutions as soon as NACVET is informed of the actual
enrollment in a particular course. Each kit will be numbered and accompanied by a numbered waybill
and a numbered receipt. The C10,000-C20,000 (US$10-US$20) fee that the apprentice or master pays



- 19 -
at the beginning of training will be considered as a down payment for the kit. At the end of training,
in order to obtain the kit, the trainee will deposit in a designated bank account the balance that he/she
owes, and present to the school this deposit pay-in slip and a copy of a certificate of full-time attendance
from the school, endorsed by the local trade association. The amount deposited will go into a revolving
fund which will be used for future purchases of tool kits and to pay the training fees. This revolving
fund and the accounting for the distribution of the tool and equipment kits will be audited annually.
During the first training cycles there will also be very closing monitoring by NACVET. Each apprentice
and master will also receive a training record card with a photo at the end of training. The composition
of the tool kits is found in Annex 4-8.
4.20          The actual tools that the trade associations claimed were needed by apprentices and
masters were considerably more than could be provided taking into account the opportunity cost and the
ability of the trainee to pay. Thus, a small quantity of higher cost supplementary items will be available
for sale through NACVET and the trade associations to masters and apprentices who have completed the
training at cost (Annex 4-8). The project will only finance such items for 5 percent of the masters and
apprentices to be trained through the project. If demand is greater, the proceeds from the sales will be
put into the revolving fund as discussed above (managed by NACVET) and additional items procured.
In purchasing these items, masters and apprentices must make a direct deposit into a specified bank
account and obtain the item of equipment on presentation of the deposit pay-in slip.
5.     Training Program Development
4.21          In a departure from  previous curriculum  development exercises carried out in the
vocational and technical education sub-sector, course content for the five occupational areas supported
by this project will be developed by NACVET in close cooperation with the beneficiary groups
represented by the trade associations. Since the instruction delivered under this project will be of direct
practical use on the job, the trade associations will play a key role in defining those occupational skills
most needed by apprentices and masters. Working through NACVET and the training institutions
supported by the project, course content will be defined in detail and will be based primarily upon (a)
the use of tools and equipment; (b) production techniques; and (c) quality control. In addition, masters
will be given instruction in small business management. In all cases, the content, emphasis and duration
of training will be consistent with trade association recommendations, and the associations will be
consulted on a periodic basis to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the training and the use of the
skills gained. The development of these new courses is currently underway using PPF resources.
6.     Training of Instructors
4.22          KATTC will be responsible for training the instructors for this program. The instructors
for each trade will be trained for two weeks at the start of the project, and for a further week after two
years. Separate courses will be run for instructors of each trade, some at KATTC in Kumasi and some
through polytechnics or their participating institutions elsewhere in the country. The training will be
entirely practical and project-based. Annex 4-5 outlines the instructional methodology that will be
imparted.
7.     Institutional Strengthening of NACVET
4.23          NACVET will be the organization responsible for all technical aspects of project
implementation. Its role will include (a) servicing the council, participating in terms of policy analysis,
(b) determining and directing all foreign assistance in the area of vocational and technical training, (c)
curriculum and materials development, (d) contracting with public and private technical institutes to be



- 20 -
supported by the project, (e) monitoring and assessing the quality of the training provided, (f) checking
the extent to which institutions are meeting the established eligibility criteria, (g) developing accreditation
criteria for selected disciplines, and carrying out accreditation, (h) maintaining regular contacts with trade
associations, and (i) monitoring the adherence of the training institutions to their contracts. In order to
carry out these tasks the staffing of NACVET has been substantially increased; but staff still needs to be
trained; and short-term consultants recruited. NACVET will also be provided with office space, essential
vehicles, equipment, and operational support.  Recently the Minister of Education assigned 21
professional and administrative staff to NACVET and a qualified executive director and his deputy have
been appointed.
8.     Tracer Studies
4.24          Despite the fact that over 400 public and private skill training institutions have been
training thousands of young people over the past four decades, except for the OIC centers described in
para. 3.14, there is no evidence as to whether or not this training is leading to employment, and whether
the skills learned are used. The project will thus support the strengthening of the capacity of PBME to
carry out tracer studies, which will not only follow-up and evaluate the effectiveness of the training under
this project, but also of longer term formal technical and vocational training. By following up graduates
the comparative effectiveness of each of the two systems can be analyzed, and a decision made as to
where resources should be concentrated. Additional staff will be appointed to PBME, and in the 9
training institutes offering courses in four or more trades a full-time institutional tracer studies officer will
also be employed. In other institutions national service personnel will be assigned or regular instructors
given responsibility for follow-up on a part-time basis. The full and part-time institutional representatives
will be trained early in the project and closely monitored by PBME staff. They will attempt to follow-up
a 20 percent sample of master and apprentice trainees over a year, and also a smaller sample of regular
long-term students in the same trades and institution.
9.     Labor Market Data Base
4.25          There is a lack of comprehensive labor force, employment, and wage earnings data
available in Ghana. For this reason, a baseline labor force survey is being financed through the ongoing
Economic Management Support Project (Cr. 2224-GH) but managed by this project. This work is being
conducted by the Ghana Statistical Service with regular updating to be done by the Labor Department of
MESW. It is planned that NACVET will interface with these two agencies so that relevant information
can be used in the design and implementation of future training strategies. Work on this comprehensive
labor force survey has already started with the hiring and training of the field surveyors. First results
should be available by mid-1996.
4.26          Labor Force Survey. This comprehensive labor force survey is the first such survey
carried out over the past two decades. It will be an in-depth inquiry into the structure and distribution
of wages and working conditions of the country's labor force. It will provide comprehensive bench-mark
data for use in the compilation of current statistics on average earnings, hours of work, and rates of
wages and salaries so as to indicate wage/salary differentials between branches of industry, geographic
regions, occupations, and sexes. Also to be compiled are statistics on: establishments by size and type
of labor employed; educational background and skills of the labor force; time use; job characteristics,
hours of work, activity status and employment search, and employment history. For the purpose of
formulating and monitoring employment policies and programs, income-generating and maintenance
schemes, vocational training and other similar programs, the Labor Force Survey will also collect
information regarding the measurement of the relationship between employment, income, training and



- 21 -
other social and economic characteristics. It will gather information on establishment practices with
respect to wage/salary, payment schedules, shift operations, payments of overtime, and incentive bonuses.
4.27          The Labor Force Survey has been planned in such a way as to provide the framework for
the collection and compilation of mutually consistent data on employment, unemployment, and wage
statistics in both the formal sector (using the establishment survey approach), and the informal urban and
rural and small-scale non-agricultural industrial sector (using the household survey approach). The
decision to integrate these two approaches has been conditioned by a number of factors, including the
relevance of the information to current users and the availability of a good statistical sampling for both
household-based and establishment-based surveys. The survey will be managed through this project, but
financed through the ongoing Economic Management Support Project (Cr. 2224-GH).
4.28          Labor Department (MESW) The labor department has staff in the 62 most urbanized
districts in the country. These staff are currently collecting data for the project on the location of all
informal sector workshops in the five trades in their area, and will soon be collecting employment and
earnings data on a regular basis which will be sent for processing to the Employment Information Branch
in the Department. They will be provided with information from the Statistical Service of the sample
households and industries they used for the labor force survey, and carry out twice yearly surveys of the
same household and industries. This information will be passed on to one of five preliminary data
processing centers in the larger district centers, and then on to the Employment Information Branch for
further processing and publication. The project will support computers, bicycles, motorcycles and other
vehicles, staff training, field allowances and consultancies for this work. However, currently the
background and qualification of the staff in the Employment Information Branch and the five preliminary
processing centers is too low for there to be reliable data processing.  Thus, as a condition of
disbursement of funds to MESW, at least one qualified computer programmner must be employed in each
of the five preliminary processing centers and two in the Employment Infornation Branch.
D.    Project Costs and Financing
4.29          Proiect Costs. The following table summarizes the costs of the project.
Table 2. Project Costs
Total Costs    Percentage of
US$ millions    Total Costs
Training Of Masters and Apprentices
Strengthening of Training Institutions            1.6             12.9
Training Fees                                     1.1              8.9
Entrepreneurship Training for Masters             0.7              5.7
Subtotal                                     3.4             27.5
Tools and Equipment for Masters and Apprentices
Tools Kits for Apprentices                        3.9             31.5
Tool Kits for Masters                             2.2             17.7
Distribution of Tool Kits                         0.3              2.4
Subtotal                                     6.4             51.6
Institutional Stren2thening
NACVET                                            0.9              7.2
MOE PBME                                          0.7              5.7
MOE PMU                                           0.6             4.8
MESW Labor Force                                  0.4              3.2
Subtotal                                     2.6             20.9
GRAND TOTAL                                 12.4            100.0
Of Which Contingencies                            (1.6)          (12.9)



- 22 -
4.30          Physical contingencies were estimated at 10 percent for goods and works.  Price
contingencies have been derived from the implementation schedule and the following expected price
increases: foreign prices 2.2 percent per annum throughout; local prices 20 percent in 1994, 15 percent
in 1995, 12 percent in 1996, 8 percent in 1997, and 5 percent per annum thereafter. The project will
be implemented over a five and a half year period, with an expected completion date of December 31,
2000. Detailed project cost estimates are shown in Annex 4-9.
4.31          Financing Plan. The following table summarizes the financing of the project.
Table 3. Financing Plan
Local      Foreign    Taxes and Duties    Total    Percentages
IDA Credit                     3.4         6.2              -            9.6         77.4
Government Matching Funds      0.3          -               0.6          0.9          7.3
Beneficiary Trainees            1.5        0.4              -             1.9        15.3
Total Project Costs            5.2         6.6              0.6         12.4        100.0
Percentages                   41.9        53.3             4.8         100.0
4.32          The Government's allocation of US$0.9 will be used to pay part of the training fees for
the training of apprentices and masters: to cover 10% of the costs of works, local purchases, and
operating costs, and to pay taxes and duties. The project will require annual budgetary allocations from
Government of around US$150,000 per year over the life of the project. The beneficiary trainees'
contribution will be used to pay fees to training institutions, and to pay for the cost of the tool kits less
the opportunity costs of the training.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Preparation
5.1           The preparation of this project has been notable in two respects. First, it was developed
by a team of local officials and consultants with little input from the Bank or other donor agencies. These
preparation and consensus building activities took a long period of time. The first Government committee
started work in 1991, and a draft project proposal was not produced until February 1994, with the final
proposal officially submitted to the Bank in September 1994.  Second, there was a high level of
participating institutions and client involvement in project preparation. Government organized four
workshops of training providers and trade association representatives during its preparation activities; the
appraisal mission organized a further workshop with involvement of all stakeholders. Government also
attempted to pilot the concepts in 1992/93, but devoted insufficient attention to evaluation of the
outcomes.
5.2           During pre-appraisal (February/March 1994), appraisal (July 1994), and post appraisal
(October 1994), task force and mission members visited most of the proposed training institutions and
also visited workshops and trade associations in different parts of the country to assess (a) the feasibility
for public and private institutions to carry out short-term training courses; (b) the level of response from



- 23 -
mastercraftsmen and apprentices towards attending short-term training and their willingness to pay for
the courses; (c) past experiences of short-term training programs carried out by some institutions; and
(d) the willingness of selected trade associations to participate in the elaboration and implementation of
key elements of the project.
B.    Projects Management and Coordination
5.3           In September 1993, the Government established a Projects Management Unit (PMU) as
an integral part of the Ministry of Education responsible for managing all externally-funded projects in
the education sector. The core of this PMU has been drawn from the EdSAC Projects Management Unit
which was created in 1987, and has been functioning successfully with responsibility for the IDA-financed
EdSAC I, EdSAC II, Community Secondary Schools, Primary School Development, and USAID-financed
Primary Education Project managed by the School Education Division. The Unit also includes staff
working on the IDA-financed Literacy and Functional Skills project managed by the Non-Formal
Education Division; and the Tertiary Education project managed by the Higher Education Division. The
PMU, which is headed by a Director General, falls under the overall responsibility of the Minister of
Education. It has an efficient accounting and disbursement system and has demonstrated considerable
experience in procurement and civil works administration. In order to effectively manage the project,
the PMU will be strengthened with the addition of a dedicated project manager, and three project officers
to be added to existing units. In addition, part-time accounting and evaluation consultants will be
recruited.  The organizational structures of the Ministry of Education and the PMU are found in
Annex 2-2. A Project Manager for this Vocational Skills Project, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA, has already been appointed.
C.    Proiect Sustainability and Recurrent Cost Implications
5.4          It is expected that the project's long-term sustainability will be achieved through (a)
forging links between training institutions, the trade associations, and the informal sector in general; (b)
establishing competency-based training as an effective and viable approach to improve worker
productivity; (c) strengthening labor market data collection and analysis; (d) creating incentives for
training providers to shorten traditional long-term training programs; (e) the existence of the revolving
fund for equipment kit purchases and future training provision; (f) the Government providing a fee to the
institutions of around C5,000 (US$5) for each master or apprentice being trained; and (g) creating an
awareness that training must be complemented by improvements in equipping the work place if it is to
be effective. Through the nurturing and acceptance of these concepts, it is hoped that they will become
part of the education and training system and will remain as such beyond the life of the project.
5.5          It is expected that the impact on the Government's recurrent budget of carrying out this
short training in 14 public institutions included in the project will be minimal since each public institution
will be asked to reduce their current total regular enrollment to free space for the short-term training.
Apart from the normal incremental creep in salaries, various overtime and other allowances, and
additional allocations for recurring materials due to the practical nature of the training, little increase in
recurrent costs is unexpected in the project institutions. Details on the 1994 total recurrent budget
approved for the Ministry of Education is found in Annex 2-1.
D.    Project Monitoring. Reporting, and Evaluation
5.6           The process of technical evaluation has been discussed in paras. 2.4 and 4.23 above. In
addition, the PMU will prepare and submit to IDA annual progress reports on project implementation by
the end of September each year, covering the period up to June of the same year. These annual reviews



- 24 -
will concentrate on the ability and willingness of participants in training to pay fees for training and tools.
On the basis of this annual evaluation the budgetary allocations for the following year will be prepared.
The Project Manager will liaise with the other implementing agencies to ensure that they submit timely
written progress reports on the components for which they are responsible. A draft Implementation
Manual and Plan containing details on the physical and technical aspects of the project as well as key
performance indicators has been discussed in detail with IDA. The manual will be updated annually to
reflect delays or progress in project implementation. The MOE will also provide its own evaluation
report on the project which will be part of the Implementation Completion Report to be completed within
six months of the closing date. Some project performance indicators are found in Annex 5-1.
E.    Mid-Term Review
5.7          A joint Government/IDA mid-term review will be carried out at an appropriate time
between July and December 1997 to assess the overall progress made in implementing project
development and performance objectives; and to verify the validity of the project design in the light of
implementation experience. At least two months prior to the review the Government will prepare and
present to IDA a report in sufficient detail to form the basis of the review. In particular this report will
consider a separate analysis of tracer study results from a sample both of long-term skill training
graduates, and from the first two cycles of short competency training completed under the project. It will
also note schools that have not maintained implementation standards and for which IDA support might
be withdrawn.
5.8           During the mid-term  review IDA and the Government will attempt to answer the
following questions in order to determine the extent to which there should be any significant change in
the focus of the project:
(a)    How many masters and apprentices are enrolled in training courses by trade, and school?
Are the schools maintaining acceptable standards of instruction? What actions are being
taken with below standard schools?
(b)    How effective has the short-term training been? Have the skills learned by the trainees
been used in the workshops?
(c)    Are the tool kits being purchased and used by the trainees? What is the distribution of
tool kits by trade? Are there any items which are not being used? Why not? Are the
optional items being purchased by the trainees?
(d)    Have the trade associations been involved in all aspects of designing and implementing
the training programs? Are there significant differences in participation by trade?
(e)    Is the labor force data system being used? By whom? Is it being regularly updated?
5.9          Based on the outcome of the review, the Government will promptly prepare and
implement an action plan, acceptable to ID)A, to improve the project's implementation. The Government
will also organize a conference with other donors to examine progress on this and other projects in the
subsector and develop an overall sector program that all donors can support.



- 25 -
F.      Environmental Aspects
5.10              The project, designed to offer short-term  competency-based training to mastercraftsmen
and apprentices, is classified as category C and will have no impact on the environment.
G.      Procurement
5.11              The  following  table  summarizes the project components, their estimated  costs and
proposed methods of procurement. The Procurement and Disbursement Schedules, which allow sufficient
time for all the key procurement steps, are presented in Annex 5-3.
Table 4. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS million equivalent, including taxes and contingencies)
Procurement Method                                            TOTAL
Project Element                         ICB          LCB           OTHER            N.I.F.                  COST
1. Works
1.1 Rehabilitation                                  1.041                                                   1.041
(0.937)                                                (0.937)
2. Goods
2.1 Workshop Equipment for
Training Institutions             0.855                                                                0.855
(0.855)                                                              (0.855)
2.2 Office Equipment
and Furniture                                   0.171                                                  0.171
(0.153)                                                (0.153)
2.3 Toot Kits for Trainees            5.008                                          1.118                  6.126
(5.008)                                                              (5.008)
2.4 Vehicles, Motorcycles              0.217                       0.037                                    0.254
and Bicycles                     (0.217)                      (0.037)                                 (0.254)
3.  Consultancies
3.1 Project Supervision,
ImpLementation and                                             0.599                                   0.599
Monitoring support                                            (0.599)                                 (0.599)
3.2 Institutional Development                                      0.121                                    0.121
(0.121)                                 (0.121)
4. Training
4.1 LocaL Training/Workshops                                       2.242                                    2.242
(0.746)                                 (0.746)
4.4 Training Abroad                                                0.021                                   (0.021)
(0.021)                                 (0.021)
5. MisceLlaneous
5.1 Field ALLowances                                               0.079                                    0.079
(0.079)                                 (0.079)
5.2 Honorarium                                                     0.058                                    0.058
(0.058)                                 (0.058)
6. IncrementaL Recurrent Costs                                     0.735             0.081                  0.816
(0.735)                                 (0.735)
TOTAL                                 6.080         1.212          3.892             1.199                 12.383
IDA Financing                        (6.080)       (1.090)        (2.396)           (0.000)                (9.566)
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
N.I.F. = Not IDA-Financed. Includes contribution by trainees, taxes and duties and Goverrnment financing of
equipment distribution.



- 26 -
5.12          Civil Works. The civil works included under the project are for the construction ot offices
for NACVET, and for the rehabilitation of the selected public and private institutions. A survey has bee n
carried out by a team of quantity surveyors out to assess the physical facilities and rehabilitation needs ot the
first ten public schools and fifteen private training institutions. From this survey it was decided to restrict
rehabilitation work to C3 million (US$3,000) per subject per school in private schools and CO() i[illion
(US$10,000) per subject in public schools. For these small works LCB advertised locally accordinig to
procedures acceptable to IDA will be used. These contracts, each estimated to cost less than US$100,0R)(
will total a maximum of US$0.5 million for 14 public institutions, and US$0.1 million for 26 private
institutions. The office block for NACVET (US$0.35 million), and various small rehabilitation works will
be awarded on the basis of normal competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedutres
acceptable to IDA. The phasing of civil works procurement is included in the implementation plan and
summarized in Annex 5-4.
5.13          Goods. Goods financed under the project would include: computers, vehicles, motorcycles.
furniture, tools, equipment, training, and operational materials for a total value of US$6.4 tnillion equivalent
including contingencies. Goods valued at US$100,000 or more per contract would be procured througlh ICB
using Bank's standard bidding documents. Contracts for goods procured through ICB would total abhout
US$6.1 million, representing 96 percent of the total value of goods financed by IDA. Office equipmiienit and
furniture which can be competitively procured locally and which cannot be grouped into bid packages olf at
least US$100,000 equivalent each will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) under procedur-es
acceptable to IDA. In aggregate these will not exceed US$0.2 million equivalent and would represenli 3
percent of the total value of goods financed by IDA. The remaining 1 percent of the total value of goo(ds,
for items such as motorcycles and bicycles as well as materials used in training and in project managenent
which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis
of price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of sucl
procurement does not exceed a total of US$0.25 million equivalent. LCB procedures will include: (a) explicit
statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid opening; (c)
award to lowest bidder; and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in [.C(13.
Government has confirmed the above LCB principles.
5.14          Services.  Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$0.7 million equivalent would be
contracted in accordance with IDA's "Guidielinesfor the Use of Consultants " (August 1981). The consultancy
services required under the project would be mostly for project management, supervision and implementatioin,
surveys and research and for architectural and engineering services. They would include, specifically, the
services of locally recruited consultants and training institutions to carry out activities suchl as: (a)
development of tracer studies; (b) training of trainers, mastercraftsmen, and apprentices; and (c) annual
project audits. Terms of reference for major consulting services and details on consultancies are available
in the project file. Details on the training program are found in paras. 4.8-4.21.
5.15          Procurement Arrangements. The procurement activities of this project will be straightforward
for civil works. The rehabilitation work will be supervised by project engineers and payment will be miade
to contractors only when the work is complete according to specifications. Only for the office block will
mobilization advance be given and this will not exceed 20 percent. Goods procurement will be carried out
by the staff of the Procurement Section of the PMU. To facilitate procurement, tool and equipment kits will
be procured for the first four training cycles (one year and four months) with an option to buy up to twice
as many kits over the following three years. The Project Manager will liaise closely with the Procurement
Section for handling all matters related to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of work plans for
the smooth execution of procurement of all works, goods, and services, including the preparation of bidding
documents, launching of tenders, evaluation, and reporting the results to the Government and to IDA for



- 27 -
review. During negotiations, Government agreed, that in order to expedite project implementation, it would
endeavor to maintain the following times for key procurement steps:
Table 5. Timetable for Key Procurement Steps
From Bid Opening to Completion        From Government Approval or
or Official Submission of           IDA's No Objection of Bid
Bid Evaluation Reports to IDA        Evaluation to Contract Signing
Goods under US$100,000                    30 days                               30 days
Goods over US$100,000                     60 days                               30 days
Works under US$100,000                    45 days                               30 days
Works over US$100,000                     90 days                               30 days
Consulting services                       30 days                               30 days
5.16           In addition, adequate records on procurement progress, including staff reports on site visits,
the timing of works and goods procurement; and compliance with agreed methods of procurement will be
maintained by the office of the Project Manager. These will be used in MOEs project monitoring system.
The Project Manager will update the project cost estimates annually, including his best estimates of
allowances for physical and price contingencies and report these to IDA not later than October 31, each year
for the succeeding year.
5.17           A project launch workshop will be organized by the Government and IDA shortly after
Board presentation with the assistance of the PMU staff as soon as all key project staff are in post. This
workshop will be attended by staff from all project entities and deal with all aspects of project
implementation, and will especially concentrate on procurement, disbursement, monitoring, and reporting.
A final version of the Implementation Manual will be circulated at the launch workshop. This will be
followed by training in competency-based instruction of teaching staff of the selected institutions.
5. 18          Bank Review. Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of packages of works
and goods which exceed US$100,000, of consultant services to firms of US$50,000, and to individuals of
US$10,000. All consultancy service terms of reference and standard contract forms will be subject to IDA's
prior review. The review process would cover over 68 percent of the value of the amount contracted for
works, goods and services financed by IDA. All bidding documents will be based on the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for each type of ICB procurement have been prepared and presented to IDA.
H.      Disbursements
5.19           The project is expected to be completed within five and a half years by December 31, 2000,
with all disbursements made by June 30, 2001. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 5-3.
5.20           The following table gives the categories and amounts to be financed out of the IDA credit,
and the percentage to be financed in each category.



- 28 -
Table 6. Summary Disbursement Schedule
Amount of the Credit
Allocated                 Percent of Expenditures
Category of Expenditures                 (US$ Million)             to be Financed by IDA
I.   Civil Works                             .86                         90%
2.   Equipment. Vehicles
and Furniture                           5.55                       100%  foreign expenditures
90%  local expenditures
3.   Training                                 .74                        100%
4.   Consultant's Services                    .65                        100%
5.   Operating Costs                          .58                         90%
6.   Refunding of PPF                         .23
7.   Unallocated                               95
Total Credit Amount                     9.56
Note: As a condition of disbursement for the release of operating costs to the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare tor
its Labor Force Data System, the Govermment will have appointed qualified staff to the Employment Information Branch
and the five preliminary processing centers.
5.21           Disbursements of the IDA credit will be fully documented except for: payments under
contracts of goods of less than US$50,000 equivalent and works of US$100,000 equivalent, which may be
disbursed against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained at the PMU for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and by auditors during annual
audits. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in The World Bank Disbursement Handbook
(1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and
the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
5.22           Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and
services, the Government will open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of
eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the PMU. The authorized allocation for the Special
Account would be US$0.5 million; IDA will make an initial deposit of 50 percent of that amount from the
proposed credit immediately upon credit effectiveness and the remaining balance will be made available when
the project implementation has fully taken off. IDA would replenish the Special Account on a monthly basis
upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures.  Replenishment requests would be
accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the Special Account. All payments under
US$50,000 equivalent must be made through the Special Account; payments above that amount may be made
through direct payment or special commitment procedures. According to the procedures set out in The World
Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). Funds in the Special Account cannot be mixed with other
funds (such as matching funds or funds fromn other donors); nor can they be advanced to project entities prior
to expenditures taking place. Any special account for which no replenishment requests have been received
by IDA for six months becomes inactive, and may have to be repaid.



- 29 -
5.23          Project Account. The Government will establish a Project Account in cedis in a commercial
bank for local matching funds. It will be required to make quarterly deposits in advance on the basis of an
agreed budget for the project, proposed by Government, and accepted by IDA by October 31 of each year.
All local matching funds and most IDA eligible expenditures paid in local currency would be disbursed from
the Project Account. Any advances to project entities will be from this account. IDA eligible expenditures
disbursed in local currency from the Project Account would be replenished from the Special Account as
required.
I.    Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
5.24          Overall responsibility for the project's financial management would rest with the PMU, which
would maintain the consolidated project accounts for the entire project. The accounting for all Special
Account and Project Account transactions would be maintained in accordance with international accounting
standards. Annual financial statements of IDA-financed components would be prepared and audited in
accordance with auditing guidelines by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA. This audit
would cover all activities of the revolving fund; of the distribution of, and payment for, the equipment and
tool kits; and the use participating training institutions make of fees from participants, and from Government
and the revolving fund. By June 30th of each year, PMU would submit to IDA an auditor's report,
management report and audited financial statements for the Special Account, Project Account and for
payments made through Statement of Expenditures procedures for the preceding fiscal year. Audits of
Credits 2140-GH, 2278-GH, 2349-GH, 2428-GH, 2508-GH implemented by the MOE are current.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Proiect Benefits
6.1           An awareness will be created of the inefficiencies of long, largely theoretical vocational skill
training for stagnant modern sector employment. Government will redirect a part of the resources it currently
devotes to this long duration training to more effective, short competency-based training for those already
in informal sector employment or apprenticeship programs. Both public and private training providers will
become more responsive to labor market realities. Training beneficiaries, represented by the informal sector
trade associations will play an increasing role in determining training course content and trainee and
equipment selection. The quality of goods and services produced by the informal sector will improve and
productivity and earnings will increase, which will, in turn, lead to an expansion in informal sector
employment.
6.2           The institutional structures for managing an effective vocational training system will be
strengthened, and eventually only those institutions that offer meaningful training will be accredited and
supported. A system will be developed and put in place that will provide the Government with a regular
source of up-to-date labor force data, including data on changes in employment and earnings in different skill
areas.  Finally, donors will redirect their support for vocational and skill training towards short
demand-driven programs.
B.    Project Risks
6.3           The project has four main risks. First, the key implementing agency, NACVET, though
created in 1990 has, up to now, played little role in the technical and monitoring aspects of managing the
vocational skill training system in Ghana. Second, public and private training providers are not yet fully



- 30 -
committed to the provision of practical competency-based training for masters and apprentices who might
have very low academic qualifications. Third, participants in the new short courses might not always be
drawn from apprentices or others who are already employed, but from the unemployed who are ready to
grasp at any low-cost training that might lead to eventual employment. Fourth, the unclear division of
responsibility between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare in the
area of vocational and skill training might lead to a dissipation of energies by these agencies on matters not
directly relating to project implementation.
6.4           The first risk has been mitigated by a transfer of key management and professional staff to
NACVET. The second risk will take some time to be reduced, as only when the institutions have experience
in providing new short competency based training will they be able to make a judgement as to how they might
manage such training in the long run. The third risk will be minimized by distributing "intake vouchers" to
trade associations for onward distribution to their members. As far as the final risk is concerned, the
Government is hiring an independent consultant to make recommendations to cabinet as to the delineation of
responsibility in skill training between the two Ministries.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1           During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a)    submit by September 30 of each year, the budget for the project for the following year,
which will show the needed Government matching fund contributions to project activities by
quarter, and thereafter implement such budget (paras. 5.6 and 5.23);
(b)    carry out a mid-term review between July and December, 1997 focusing on overall progress
made in implementing project development and performance objectives; the effectiveness of
the training programs; and the quantitative deliveries. The MOE will prepare, two months
before the review, the report in sufficient detail for a comprehensive review. Based on the
review, an Action Plan, acceptable to IDA will be prepared by MOE for the further
implementation of the project (paras. 5.7 - 5.8);
(c)    in addition to the mid-term review, carry out annual reviews to be held no later than October
31 of each implementation year to assess progress and evaluate performance during the past
year and review and agree on the work program and budgetary allocations for the following
year (para. 5.6).
(d)    use standard bidding documents as approved by IDA for all LCB and ICB procurement;
(e)    ensure that the Government shall maintain qualified and experienced management personnel,
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers in NACVET; and
(t)    complete the comprehensive labor force survey not later than August 31, 1996.
7.2           As a Disbursement Condition, for the release of operating costs to the MESW for its Labor
Force Data system the Government will have appointed qualified staff to the Employment Information Branch
and the five preliminary processing centers (para. 5.20).



- 31 -
7.3          Audit Agreement. After credit effectiveness, by June 30 of each year, the MOE will submit
to the IDA an auditor's report, management report and audited financial statements of the Special Accounts,
Project Accounts, tool equipment distribution and sales and SOEs for the preceding calendar year, audited
by an independent accountant acceptable to IDA (para. 5.24).
7.4          Recommendation. Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 6.6 million (US$9.6 million equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 40 years.
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



- 32 -
AN?NEX 1-t
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
SOCIAL INDICATORS
,Name (year)                        Measure                      Indicator     Source
Total area                          km2                          239,000       (a)
GNP per capita (1993)               USS                          430           OP 3. 10
Total population (mid-1992)        ('(00)                        15,788        (b)
Urban population (1992)             (as % of total pop.)         34.9          (b)
Total fertilitv rate (1992)  (av. number of live births per woman)  6.1        (a)
Crude birth rate (1992)             (per 1.000 pop.)             41            (a)
Crude death rate (1992)            (per 1,000 pop.)              12            (a)
Infant mortalitv rate (1992)       (per 1,000 live births)       81            (a)
Life expectancy at birth (1992)     (years)                      56            (a)
Annual Population GrowNth Rate
(1987-92)                           (%)                          3.0           (b)
Gross Enrollment Ratios (1990):    (%,o of relevent pop.)                      (c)
Primarv:      Total                                      77
Female                                     69
Secondary     Total                                      37.8
Female                                     28.8
Pupil-Teacher Ratio (1990)          (tot. pupils/tot. teachers)                (c)
Pnnmarv                                                  29
Secondary                                                19
Adult Literacy Rate (1992)          (% of relevent pop.)                       (d)
Total                                      63
Women                                      54
Source: (a) World Development Report 1994, World Bank
(b) Social Indicators of Development 1994, World Bank
(c) UVESCO, 1994
td) Human Development Report 1994, United Nations Development Programme



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MOE 1994 Summary of Recurrent Expenditure by Programs and Objects
IISUB  I                                                i     TOTAL                                                               M B  II  II  AINTENANCE
HEAD IPHEAD I                 PiOGRAuMES                     1I  RECURRENT   11  PERSONAL    1J TRAVELUNG   11   GENERAL    I   REPAIRS &                  SUPPLIES   11 SUBVENTION   H
I     II                                               f11 EXPENDITURE  11 EMOLUMENTS  11 EXPEN,,TURE  11 EXPENDITURE  II  RENEWALS    I & STORES
-11 .l-Il                       -          --  -11 ____________'I---**- --11-------*--*----------------- ------- --I_--1_______ _--
140       fl             aINISTRYOF EDUCATION                i    12.454,607,000       558.281,000 II    253.000.000 11    138,000000 II    126.600,C00 II    555.54,000 11  l0,823,172,000
O tI UGOENERALADIMNISTRATION                           1I I1.224.926.000 i         35.600,000 II    40.000.000 II     40.000,000 II    85.600.000 if    200,554.00011  10.823,172,00011
11 02  II0UREAN.OF GHANALANGUAGES                       il       _        ii       _                 - _              - _               - _              - _I
11 03  JIPON-FORMALEDUCATION DIYSION                    i       932,481,000 II    512.481.000 II    50,000.o0o II     50,000.0o0  II   20,000,0D0 II    30,00.0003 ||              i
)I 04  IIPLANNINO, UDGEThNO, MONITORNO & EVALUATION             182.000.000 D      -         it    155,000.000 ||     15,000,C00        7.000t000 i      5.000.000 tl
11 05  JISUPPLJES AND LOGISTICS                         II       -        D        -         II      -        II      -         I       _        I       _
06  IINACVE1                                         li       115,200.000 II     10.200,0D0 I     8.000,0D0 ||    33.000.000 if     140000,0D0       50,000,00 if               i
11    11                                                111i1f11                                                                                 1                l1
141  1   fl         GES - HEADGUARTEmS SERMCES             II   12.534.368,000 II    2.835.092.000 II    352.674.000 II   1,341252.000 II   3.2as5.s9.000 II   4,719,451.000
11 01  1IOENERALADMLNISTRATON                          II    4.598,893.000 II    1,955.985,000 II    198,774.000 II    902,685,000 II   1,005.725.000 II    535,724.000
11 02  JIMANPOWERnANDTRFNING DIYISION                  II       477.588,000 fl    117.798.000 11       662.000 11    344,804.000        -        if     14,324.O0D0 f
if 03  IIC.RD.D.                                                122,812.000 II     64.148.O000 1     8.468.00O 11     -        if       -        if     50000.000 0 f              Il
11 04  JINSPECTORATEDIIASION                           II        79.016.000 11     57.437,000 11    12,571,000 11      4.808.000                         4. -  II  4.200,000
li 06  [ISECONDARY EDUCATION DIMSION                    11    3.064256,000 il     108.164.000 il       662.000 11     -        11   2.255.430.000 il    700,0000 Ii 
11 08  IfTEACHEREDUCATION                                       1 101,820.000 11   44.964,000 D      1.450,000 it    15.400.000                        40.000.00 -  * o
li 12  JISUPPLYAND LOGISTCS                             i       445.509.000 il    105.509.000 il    100.000.000 il    -        il       _        II    240,000.000 II             II
t1 13  IlBASIC EDUCATION                                D     3.024.820.000 il     23.232.0D0 il      1.58t,000 i     -        It       -        if   3.000.000.000 if             i
11 16  IS PECIAL EDUCATION D4YISION                    il       125.965.000 li     40.680.000 li     1.985.00 I        3,300.000 1 J  i _               80.000,000 il             il
1117  )JACCRATEC-4ICALTRANINO CENTRE                   If a68.118.000 it          120.224,000 II    13.447,000 11     20,078.000 11     7,478,000 11    26.0893.000 11 
a1 18  IIIOJMASITECHNICALINSTITUTE                      il     305,771.00011     196,953.000 II    13.063.000 i      50.179,000 il    17.260.000 il    20,310,0O0 11              i
II    11                                                11                11                 11               It               11                11               11               11
142  II    B      GES SCHOOLS AND RECIONALSER'dCES          II  139.979,780,000 11  136.6.09780,000 11   1.270,0.000 if   1.200.000,000 11    400.000,000 if    500.000.000            if
11 01  JIIENERALADIINISTRATION                         if   10,501,60.000 II    9,891.451,000 11    267,454.000 if    335,075.000 11  45,903,000 if    21.777,0ODO 1
11 02  IiPfIMARY EDUCATION                             II   71,425.131.00011   71.095.124,000 11    155,124.00011    127,380,000 11    1.393.000 Oj    31.1Io,0                   i
11 03  IIAJJNIORSECONDARYEDUCAnON                       II   28.683.157.000 II   2a,206,n3,000 11    173,845,000 if    117.344,000 11    154,084,000    31,111.00-0
11 04  IPECONDARYEDUCATION                              il   20.051.26a.000 11   t8.875.309.000 if    438.248,000 i  395.568,000 11    137,703,000 II    204,440.000
11 05  IfTEACHEREDUCATION                               II    6,581,985,000 11    6,240,420,000 11    141.720.000 II    100.577.000 11  24,597,000 if   74,671.00 if             if
06  IIMANAOEMENTAND SUPERYISION                       I     1.032,516,000 li    954.016,000 li    26,745.000 il    41,918,000 II      9,837po0 li      -        il              il
oa 0   JIVocATIONALEDUCATIbN                            II    1,644.063,00011    1.346,.57,000 11   66,864.000||      82,13d.000       11,483.000 11    130,891.000 ||
143 if   if              GES - SPECIALSERIACES               II      671.024,000 II    55a,024.000 11    45,000,0D0 11     30.000.000 II     5,000,000 if    35,000,0)0
II 02  IFNSTITUflONS OF THE HANDICAPPED                il       671,024,000 II    556.024.000 il     45,000,000 It    30,000,000 il     5,000,000 II    35,000,0D0 I               i     p)
11    11                                                11                 11               11                11                11               11               11               11   O'q
ll   ll   ll         ll               ll                ll               ll               ll   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D  -
145 ||    II           TERARY EDUCATION DIMSION             il   21,349.511.000      2. 2554,623,000 if  80.240,000 ||    104,080,000 11   85,000.O0D II    152,000.000 II  18,373.388.000 11
' 01  IGIENERALADIANISTRATION                          I    18,476,668.000                 if -  II  16,240.000 11   30,080,000 11     7,000,000 11     50,000.000 11  18,373.36a,000 11
11 02  IIPOLYTECHNICS                                   II      940,303.000 II    780.303.000 11     30.000.000 ||    40,000,000 11    30,000,OO         60,000,0DO       -        II   O
11 03  IplPLOUACOLLEGES                                         384.501.000 i     331,501.000 i      14,000,000 il     9,000.000 11    18,000,000 li     12,000,0D0 if    -        il
|| 04  IpISTANCE EDUCATION                              il    1,548,019,000 il    1.443.019.000 i    20,000,000 il    25.0C0,0D0 II    30,000,000 il     30,000,0D0 0i    -         i
_-11__ -- --- --_     -    __-------------------------i------------------------------ ---------- ---------11--                                          ---------                           T
11    IITOTALINISTRYOF EDUCATION                       li  1B6,989290,.000     143.114,000,000    2,000,914,00011    2,813,332,000   3,902,499,000   58.982,005,00011   29,190.540,000 11
-..~ -.. ..... . ....... .-......U.- ..... .                            . .              . .                . .               ...... -.- ...............   -   . ....



- 34 -
ANNEX  2-1
Page 2 Of 5
GOVERNMENT RECURRENT BUDGET FOR EDUCATION (1988-1993)
TOTAL GOVERNUENT RCJUEWT WUDGET FOR EDUCATION Y LEVE1l/lYPES OF EDUCATION, 1988 - 1 93
AMOUNT IN MILUONS (C4
EVEIlTYPE OF EDUCATION
1988        1989      1990          1991       1992         1993
PRIVARY EDUCATION                          8,616.20    14,045.90  15,650.20    22,531.60   28,341.00    51,6.47.00
/MIDOLE EDUJCATION                      6,906.50     8,501.50    8,536.50    11,522.40   11,37S.80    20,836.50
SECONGAY EDUCATION                         3,500.20     4,596.20   5,552.00    7,870.00    8,079.50    15,000.40
TEAO-ER EDUCATION                           598.00       670.30   1,682.00     1,195.50    1,186.90    4,846.00
VOCATiONALEDUCATKON                          398.90      282.00    1,200.30      776.10      668.20     1,269.40
TECHJCAL EDUCATION                           215.80
SPEaALIST TRAIING EDUCATION                  442.80      558.60     620.20
NsTTilnoN OFT1E HAIC.APPED                   149.60      174.80     183.10       260.80      268.80      516.30
HIGlfR EDUCATION                           2.320.30    A,759.00    5,387.00    6,834.80   12,910.60    13,159.80
POLYTEQ14NI5 & OUDLOMA AWARDIG NT.                                             1,370.60    1,S41.60     1,085.00
MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVSION                    167.10      246.60     276.30       420.60      398.50      767.10
ADMNSTRAnON
MTRY OF EDUCATION (IIIADOLARTS             1,602.90     1,817.20   3,370.40    5,430.20    5,681.80     8,860.50
8UR1EAJ OF GK14A LANGUA4ES (MOE               28.40
NON-FORMAL EDUCATION SMOEI                                                       520.00      751.40      801.30
PB9E DMVSION (MOE)                                                                30.00       18.60       52.00
SUPPES AMD LOGLSTICS CMOE                                                        100.00       82.60      130.00
GiQtA  EDUCATION SERVICE FEADOUATERS)      4,648.40     5,157.90   5,669.40    8,960.90    6,857.50    10,733.80
GC4W1A EDUCATION SEVa (REGIONE             1,279.20     1,791.10   3,114.70    4,153.60    4,203.40     7,810.00
NATIONA ARCHIVES                              39.50      -                                    69.10      113.00
TOTAL                                     30,913.80    A2,601.10  51,242.10    71,977.10   82,435.30   137,628.10
ALLOCATION OF EDUCATION RECURRENT BUDGET BY LEVELS/
TYPES OF EDUCATION
LEVEL/TYPE OF
EDUCATION                    1988         1989         1990       1991         1992        1993
P4AURY                      27.87        32.97        30.54       31.30.      34.38        37.53
22.34        19.96       16.66       16.02       13.80        15.14
SSS                          11.32        10.79       10.83       10.93        9.80        10.90
TEACHER                       1.93         1.57        3.28        1.66        1.44         3.52
VOC/TECH                      1.99         0.66        2.34        1.08       .0.81         0.92
SPECIAL                       0.48        0.41         0.36        0.36        0.33         0.38
TERTARY                       8.94        12.48       1I.72       11.40       17.53        10.35
ADNVN.'                     24.90        21.16        24.26      27.25        21.83       21.18
*OTHER                       0.22         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.08        0.08
TOTAL                      100.00       100.00       100.00     100.00       100.00      100.00



- 35 -                                                     ANNEX 2-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                                     Page 3 of 5
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MOE 1994 Summary of Recurrent Expenditure for NACVET
|          a ,                                ,             jEACTUAL E  I           tUAL
SUt '    XSUS,    PROGRAMME              It ACCOtJNT    EXPWN01TURE  | EXPENDITURE         ESTItATES          ESTIMATES
NEADIITEM:ITEM'                                       NUIBER           1992      IJA-Jum, 1993 ,         1993             1m994 
t    t    l                   t             |  ~~~~~~~~~~~(CEDIS)    I   (CEDlS)    I   CCEDIS)     (CED IS)
.......................................................................................................  -- --  --  --  --  - .................................................................... 
06         tACET                                   II                            I                    
I    I    I                       ~~~                                                     ~       ~~~~~~I  I  a
Et   PEA SONAL EMOLLUMENTS        1140-061-000:                 i                I
I    OESTAtLI RED POSTS                ,140-061-001t
2  ICON & NON-EST POST                 1140-061-0021
M3 1ONTHLY PAID & CASUAL LAB           1140-061-0031                                                    a                 a
4.  ItSCE ALLOWANCES                   ,140-061-0041                 t                      8,000,000,       10,200,000
S  1HaUSING ALLOWANCE                  |140-061-0051                                  t       -         It
6  ILEAVE ALLOWANCE                    :140-061.006,                 t                                  I
7  :TRANSPORT ALLOWANCE                1140-061-007:
|8  :LUCH ALLOWANCE                    1140-061-008O
9  :VEHICLE MTCE ALLOWANCE             1140.061-009,
--------------------------- --------------- ------t------- I........--------------I--|----------------- ------- ----l
I    I ,  TOTAL PERSONAL EMOLUMENTS   I               I    3,114,000          4U3,000 I    8,000,000 *    10,200,000
--------------------------------------------------------- .............. ---- ----------1--------------- - -------------
2        I  TRAVELLING & TRANSPORT EXP  :140-062-0001                      1        t         t                                 a
I l TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE .140-062-0011                               I t                      612,000 1       1,000,000 I
2  :RUNHING COST (OFF. VEHICLES)  :140-062-002:                      a                      2,500,000,        4,000,000o
1 3   HMTCE OFFICIAL VEHICLES            :140.062-003:                 t                1    1,500,000 '        2,000,000 
I 4   OTHER T & T EXPENDITURE            1140-062-0041                 t                t    1,000,000'         1,000,000:
.. ....... . .. .................. i-1-1--                       1-#-i ---------,-----   --------t------------ ------- ---
I    I ,   TOTAL T & T EXPENDITURE       I             i      628,610 1    3,820,300 t    5,612,000 I           8,000,000 1
------------ ----------------------------  - --   ---  ---t..----- -------- --------------- ----------------- -- ----------
3  I    I       GENERAL EXPENDITURE          1140-063-000,                                  i
1                                                                                     aELECTRICITY CHARGES  1140-63-001   
i 2  :WATER CHARGES                      '140-063-002:                 I                        -         I        -
3  IPOSTAL CAARGES                     '140-063-003:                                  a       -                  -
4  ITELEPHONE & TELECOM CHARGES   1140-063.0041                       a                a
5  :CLEANING, CLOTH!NG MATER!ALC  :                  I               I                 .                 
:SANITATION & OFFICE FACILITIES:140-063 005,O,|                                            232,000           331,000,
6  'STATIONERY                         ,140.063-0061                 I                 a      926,000,         1,320,000
7  ,PRINTING & PUBLICATION             :140-063-007:                                  1    1,157,000 '         1,649,000 o
e8  RENT (OFFICE EOUIPMENT)            1140-063-008,                 1                 1    1,157,000 I        1,649,000 I
9  :DEPARTMENTAL TRAINING              1140-063-009:                  ,                I   11,343,000 I    16,169 000 1
I 10 :LIBRARY                            1140-063-010,                 1                1    5,787,000 I         8,249,000 I
I 11 1ACCOtMODATION                      :140-063-011:                 a                 :    1,389,000 |        1,980,000
12 :INSURANCE (BANK CHARGES)           ,140-063-0121                          :               232,0oo,           331, ooo
13 :REFUND OF MEDICAL EXPENSES         1140-063-013,                                   1      232,000 '          331,000 '
14 ,FUEL, LIGHT & WATER                :140-063-014,                 ,                 '      695,000  '         991,000
a ,                                                      a                a                I                 a ,a 
.................... .................................... ....... --------------.  .........................  .....  ..   . ...,....     ... -------------  ------------------------
a    ,    a  TOTAL GENERAL EXPENDITURE    I                 1   32,045,623  '   15,679,585         23,150,000 a    33,000,000
--  --------- --------------------------.....-------------- ----------------t---          ---- --:--------------- - --- ---- - a  a



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 5
I                                              I ,            l     ACTUAL              ACTUAL
SUB         SUa                 PROGRAMME                   ACCOUNT         EXPENDITURE         EXPENDITURE         ESTIMATES             ESTIMATES    I
HEAD,ITEMIITEM:                                               NUMBER             1992        IJAN-JUN   1993 1           1993                1994
(CEDIS)            (CEDIS)        ,    (CEDIS)        ,     (CEDIS)
06                                 NACVET                 ,                                                      I                   9 ,
| 4   |   :'MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS & RENEWAL,140-064-000:                               ,                  I                   9
1   'ROADS & GRO2NDS                        :140-064-001,,                                               2,553,460            3,640,000
2   :MINOR REPAIRS OF RES. BUILDING:140-064-OOZ:                                                         2,553,460,            3,640,000
3   'MINOR  REPAIRS OF OFF. BUILDINWG140-064-003:                                                        1,374,940             1,960 000,
4   :MINOR  REPAIRS OF HOSP\CLINICS  ,140-064-004:                             ,                            -
, S  MINOR REPAIRS OF SCHS. & COLs.'140-064-005                                ,                         1,571,360             2,240,000
6   ;MINOR  REPAIRS OF HOUSES & FARM:140-064-006,
7   'MTCE OF FURNITURE & FIXTURES   '140-064-007'                                                           883,890            1,260,000
8 a  MTCE OF ECUIPHENT,                     :               ,
:MACHINERY  & PLANT                     1140-064-008,                                                  883,890             1,260,000
;TOTAL MTCE, REPAIRS & RENEWALS:                             10,176,275  1       6,610,440  1        9,821,000  1        14,000,000
.... ... . . .. ..  ............ ................... ....... ......... --     -  - --  -  -   --  - -  --  - -    ..----..--------------------.-..----- .., .. ... ..  .... ...
5         :        SUPPLIES & STORES               140-065-0001                       '
1   ,SCHOOLS TEXTBOOKS                      :140-065-001:                                                1,753,750,           2,500,000
2   CHEMS & CONSUMABLE  FOR  SCH LA9,140-065-002,                                                        5,962,750            8,500,000 
3   'LA3  INSTRUMENTS & STORES              :140-065-003:                                                5,962,750             8,500,000
4   ,OTHER  TEACHING\LEARNING  MATS   :140-065-004:                                                     10,171,750            14,500,000
5   :SPORTS & RECREATIONAL MATS              ,140-065-0051                                          :     8,768,750            12,500,000,
6   :FEEDtIG                                :140-065-006j                                                2,455,250             3,500,000,
...... --.-.-. --..-.-.-.-.-...-..................................    --------------       --------------     ------------          -- ,    ;
TOTAL SUPPLIES AND STORES                     ,                     1,611,209,    12,037,905,    35,075,000  1                 50,000,000,
......T                     RCRE    EPER......E......... .............. ...................... - 7,5--,--7   ---3---3...... ---- - 81,6.  15,2      0 .
,   ,TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENOITURE   ,' 47,5 75, 717,    38,631,230,    81,65a,ooo   ;    115,200,000,
==z=zS ===--===-=::======a=====S==S== == =====s==s==  ===== =..............................t X t:B3s=



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1994
(in million Cedis)
......................................................................................................................................... ................................................................................................... .....................
I                                          I             I           I                ODA             Il        EtARTY RESOURCES         1                  OTHEu 5URCES Of FNDIN                           I           I
I                                          I             I           .    .     .      .    .     .       .       .        ..- -------------------------li                                                              I
I                                          I             I           I               I        |E                        I |    IET      |     fOREIGN CGERCIAL                    OWN         DOMESTIC    I             I
|  EDUCATION                                      I      IPLANNED   I   SECURED    I           FTB N   IC'PART FUIDS I   LENDING              SECRED    I    FTSH          |    FUNDS       |    RRMIW1     |t TOTAL
|                                         |  PROJECT   IEXPENDI- I-.------------------------- | ---------------------------  -------------------------------------------------------    FIlN-
|  Exchage Rote USS925.00 Cdls  I  REt    iTURE 19941   FC    I  LC  I  FC    I LC   ||  FC    I LC    I  FC   I  LC |L  FC   I  LC  I  FC    I LC   I  FC    I LC  I  FC    I LC  || CING    I
I                                          I             I           I       I       I        I       1I       I        I       I        11       I       I        I       I          .  1          I       11          1
RERAS OF  ILD * INFRA OF 2ND              |ED 002/86   1            1       I       1        I       1I        I       I       I       II        I       I        I       I       I        I       I
PROV. OF EUIP, FURM.  VEHN.    ED 003/U   |               20001   20001         I       1       II        I       I        I       1I        I       I       I       I        I       I        I       11    20001
|    INST. DEV. JHR. SEC. SCHOOL           |ED 004/UI |                      1       1        I       II       I        I       I       11        I       I       I        I       I
CCIL. OF 2D CYCLE SLDGS.                  ED 005/UI                 I       I       I        I       II       I        I       I       1I        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       I
RENU  OF 15T CYCE EDLICINST    IED 006/U   |                   62311  55831          |   "US          11       I        I       I       II        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       11    62311
LOG SLD    PtJS OF OTNER  INSTS |ED 007/88                     2201         I       1       I        II       |   2201         I       11        I       I       I        I       I       I        I       11      2201
|    LOGSSIDG PROJS OF DIP INSTS. ED 008/a   I                    Sol        I       I       I        11       I    801         I       11        I       I       I        I       I       I        I       |I       80I
|    RENA OF INSTS FOM  NDICAED  IED 009/8   I                  2601         I       I       I        1I       |   2601         1       11        I       I       I        I       I       I        I       11      2601
LOGS UrT FtO  GW. EDUC SERV |ED Oi/U88                        20g1  20351           I       I        II       |    291         I       II        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       1I     20641
|    INST. STRENTNEHING OF  OE            |ED 011/U   |           691        I       1            1   1I       |    691         1       If        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       II       691
|    UNIVERSITY OF GHAMA                  |ED 013/ I |          4061         I       I       I        II       1   4061         I       11        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       II      4061
U IVERSITY OF SCIENCE &TECN               |ED 014/U   |          2051        I       1       I        II       |   2051         I       II        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       I       2051
|    LOIVERSITY OF CAPE COAST             |ED 015/U   |         3081         I       1       1        II       |   3081         I       II        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       II      3061
|    REHA  CONST OF OE CENT.ADMIN  lED 016/90  1                 2731        I       I       1        II       |   2731         1       1I        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       I I     2731
DEV. R TECH. & VOC.EDUCATION    |ED 017/90   |            16611  IM9I           I       I        1I       |   3661         1       1I        I       I       I       I        I       I        I       I      16611
|    UIVERSITY OF DEV. STUDIES            |ED 018/90  I         8641         I       I       I        II       I   864          I       II        I       I       I        I       I        I       I       I I     8"4
C ONSTR. OF CW              SEC. SCOLS    |ED 019/92   |       23401   19401         I       I        11       |   4001         I       II        I       I        I       I       I        I       I       11    23401
tUIV. COLLEGE OF ED. - VINNEBA lED 020/93   |              2631        I        1       I       II        |   2631                 I I1      I       I       I       I        I       I       I        1l      2631
TERTIARY EDUCATION PROJECT           lED 021/93   |       72021  60021          I       I       II        |  12001        j        II       I        I       I       I        I       I       I       II     72021
PRIMARY ED. DEV. PROJECT             |ED 022/94   |    102421  97421            I       I       II        |   5001        I        II       I        I       I       I        I       I       I |     |    102421
S WSECTOR TOTAL                            I     20  |        346881 285971   |           6481        II    |          54431    I       II        I       I        I       I       I        I       I  ||         34688l
|SECTOR TOTAL                   |                20  |        346881 265971   |             648  1    I    |         54431      I                 I       I       I        I       I        I       I       1|   346881
* - ------- ~.........---------. -...................................... Sa-$--s-s ........ x ....... la...........                                                       ms---e"-----------------s.-- ... --------------.-.-.-.--
OPc :r-
O>C
21
0It 
U,l



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
|MINISTERIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE|
DEPUTY MINISDM TEPUTY MINISTER
FCIFDIRECTOR
INTERNAL AUDIT|
_ _ _ _ _l                                  I 
DIRECTOR PBME      DIRECTOR                         DIRECTOR, STATISTICS  DIRECTOR
DIVISION           GENERAL ADM. AND                 PR. INFORMATION MGT.  MANPOWER DEV.
FINANCE DIVISION                 RESEARCH           PERSONNEL POLICY
& MGT. DIVISION
DIRECTOR GENERAL    SECRETARY GENERAL        NATIONAL CO-ORDINATOR     OTHER SUBVENTED
SCHOOL EDUCATION    HIGHER EDUCATION          NON-FORMAL EDUCATION      ORGANISATIONS
GES)               (NCHE)                     (NFED)
DIRECTION GENERALE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                1. GHANA ACADEMY OF
UNIT                                ARTS & SCIENCES
2. NATIONAL SERVICE
SECRETARIAT
3. GHANA INSTITUTE
OF LANGUAGES
4. GHANA LIBRARY
BOARD
5. GHANA NATIONAL
COMMISSION FOR
UNESCO
6. GHANA BOOK
DEVELOPMENT
COUNCIL



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION PROJECTS MANAGEMENT UNIT
[IISTM IOR BDUCATION
CHIEF DIRECTGR
DIRECTOR GEmRAL
I
DIRECTOR OF FIrnUCE
| WCT _R | |            PROJECT NY%GR.             PRJC  X_UM          |     | CT | |AGE            PROJEC MANAGEi
SCHO DOCATI0              PF                    TJIA  EWC="On    I          I..jCY PS OJC=IO1AL SKILLS
~xwusm            I                    lacu lw lox
* Pr-pos-l
e s



REPUBUC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL WELFARE
|  MINISTER                                                  National Netskork on
Empioi nieni Capacity
Building
|Deput) Ntjistr |   Puty Nf h                      | NNECB          f
Sctor Department                                                                   [         1
& Statutory Bodie                                                                 ISector Specialist
Chief Director                                Committees
-4i
Director Finance/                                                     Director PPARic
Administration                                                             I
IDep.Drco               Dep. Director   |D|tDector Poljr  D|p DSlo                                 ior
@X-X~~~~~~~~ LAOR LPOTR
Dtireco            *MNSeRLctor  ITEEBLMI                                                         IAorAnInsru
PAr t Dirxecto                    RErEr A| UI
ollS)~~~~~~~~~~~A.d PLsru I '                                                                               I
MPINIII$IULA1flOOR  PORD(lAD)                                        |Dstrict La bofrO ce r |           x 
ST8ATVITORf BOARlDS                                                                                      0) Q z~
* UE~~~~~AOUR INI$PECTORkTt                                                                                          (D m 
Dau Entr  Dsta Enrl I          * DP}                                                                                                     w r  X  
sarr     ~~staff              MINlI8ERUALCOOMMITEE8                                        F   LJl                     t  vors rbesor  0  
l      * ~~PRGIOECTO UIIDERTHE M111111R                                                                           I    hr
INDEP DEffTORAMNIAT1OWe S
* DEPUTY DIRECTOR (1NTEIAL AUDRrOI}
G OEltERAL COUN1SEL



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 4
STRUCTURE, STAFFING, AND FUNCTIONS OF
NACVET SECRETARIAT
DIRECTOR
(M.V.O. Ceasar)
S ROCT MANAER--------------- -C/UNDP UMBRELLA PROG. 
T  STAEF                                              DR. R. GICHIRA L PROJE(CT
|(r  WWlliam Ahadze)         DEPUTY DIRECTOR                  SAFF
.(K.A Teye) 
-------------------INTERN&L AtMIT
ADMIN SERVICES                         PROF SERVICES
(Sam Aggrey)                         (R.K. Oguaah)
] ADMINISR^TION|  FINANCE         MONITORING L    CUkRICULUM          F | lZXAMINATIONS 7
NI        TION _   JN_ZVALUAT:N                                SI-SEARCH    |
A.L. Boye               John Bamiebo       Dr. D. PeAlore    a. D.aHmmond          F.A. Saiden
David Sam              Albert Menuah       James K. Glover   Paul Odro             J.S. TRcafo
H.K. Agyei                                 B.Antwi-Boaiako   B. Sigme              G.Y.K. Yevu
Viviin AiloLey                                                                     R-ey
Sylvia Welbeck-Quaye                                                               R
Yvonne Mallet
Functionr
1. Admin of Council       1. Budgeting       1. Planning &       1. Curriculum      l. Test Admin
Meetincas                                   Programming         DevelopmcnC
2. Human Resource         2. DZibursernnt   2. Distribution   2, Research           2.Cmtt Eition
Development             of Expenditure    of Intake
3. Public F_lationj.      3. Expenditure      VoucherB           3. Test Dev.       3.A.XreditaLJ.:n
4. Personnel Matters    4. Financial         3. Moni.toring L   A.      ini         4.L1vCen,csL
D. becurity                 Statement          Evaluation        5. Entrepreneurial
6. mIt. Cooperatlon                          4. Career Gui-        Skills Dev.
7. Project Admin.                              dance & CouI1se- 6. Functional
8. Loyt6ics                                    lling               Skills Dev,
9. Transpor.                                 5. Teacher Edu. &
Instructor Trg.
6. Statisticn
7. Apprenticeship &
In-plant Trg.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 3
MR. LEWIS T. PRESTON
PRESIDENT
THE WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
GHANA:        Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support Project
Letter of Informal Sector Training Development Policy
I write to confirm our determination and commitment to pursuing those policies which with
your assistance, have resulted in positive macro economic changes in our country.
I wish to share with you, govermunent's perspectives on the proposed Vocational Skills and
Informal Sector Support Project - a project that is targeted at increasing employment and earnings of
the large number of educated youth who are dependent on the informal sector for their sustenance.
You should recall that, out of a desire to arrest the decline in the educational system and to
improve the stock of qualified human resources needed for accelerated economic growth, the
government of the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) launched a system wide programme
of educational reforms. To finance this programme, we have steadily raised education's share of
Government's total annual recurrent budget from 35.12% in 1987 to 40.7% in 1994. Donor,
including World Bank assistance has also been important.
As a result of this programme, we have made significant improvements in the structure and
content of education. Pre-university education has been reduced from 17 to 12 years. Nine years of
"basic education" consisting of six years primary plus three years of Junior Secondary is being
offered to all school age children. This is followed by three years of Senior Secondary School
Education. Extensive reform have also been made at the tertiary level.
The Ministry of Education revised the Primary School curriculum and developed a new
curricula for the JSS level. In this new JSS curriculum, theory has been de-emphasized and in its
place, new practical learning activities responsive to the skill needs of the local environment have
been introduced. In addition to furnishing a strong base for literacy skills, the new system also seeks
to make graduates familiar with using tools and gaining better numeracy skills as well as inculcating
positive attitudes to hard work and national development.
The reform is making an impact on all sub-sectors of education, as borne out by statistical
data gathered by the Ministry of Education. Enrollment in primary schools has increased from
1,625,137 in 1987/88 to 2,047,293 in 1992/93 - an increase of 26%. The gross enrollment rate at the
primary school level has also grown from 72.6% in 1987/88 to 80.6% in 1992/93; whilst enrollment
in JSS I has increased from 193,079 in 1988/89 to 225,825 in 1992/93 an increase of 16.95%. Data
also shows that enrollments in JSS 1 to JSS 3 grew at a faster rate in the educationally deprived areas
of the country. Ghana Education Service data reveal a steady increase in the absolute numbers of
candidates who participated in the Basic Education Certificate Examinations between 1990 and 1994.
In 1990 a total of 127,522 candidates took the examination. This increased to 149,038 in 1991,
165,359 in 1992, 181,824 in 1993 and 198,782 in 1994.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 3
While we are making some gains in terms of expanding access especially in the disadvantaged
areas, our efforts are being challenged by demographic pressures. Like many other African
countries, we in Ghana, face an increasingly complex structural employment problem. A growing
number of young people, especially school leavers, who enter the labour market every year are
searching for modern sector wage employment while all available data show that modern wage sectors
in Ghana cannot absorb more than a small fraction of the youth who enter the labour market.
Government has for some time now devoted increasing attention to the need to reduce the rate
of underemployment and unemployment in the towns currently estimated at 13.5 % through the
adoption of enabling policy interventions to encourage the rapid growth of the micro- and small-scale
sector.
It needs to be further noted that, unlike previous years, government decision to permit private
sector industries to alter the composition of the labour force to reflect the performance of their
establishment has further reduced the levels and the prospects for wage employment. The expected
demand for labour in the formal sector over the coming years is likely to be low due to over
manning, coupled with under utilization of capacity.
The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare have for a
long time now been involved in preparing youth for the world of work through the provision of pre-
employment technical and vocational training. An assessment has however, revealed that for
government training institutions to reach larger numbers and adequately prepare youth for self-
employment, there is the need to try out new approaches to training.
The traditional informal apprenticeship system has been identified as an effective and market
driven system by which craftsmen and entrepreneurs acquire skills. Recent evidence has shown that
entrepreneurs, especially in the informal sector, value informal sector apprenticeships above all other
forms of skill acquisition and they consider skill transmission to their apprentices as an integral part
of their business. However, these traditional apprenticeship systems are saddled with many problems.
For example, in this period of rapid technological advancements, the system still relies on techniques
of production common one or two decades ago.
As the source of over 95% of the skill training in Ghana, the traditional apprenticeship system
needs to be supported. More so when our estimates show that the informal sector in Ghana must
generate 80% of all jobs between now and the year 2020.
Consequently we have, through inter-sectoral consultation, developed a policy to foster
informal sector growth by up-grading the skills in the traditional apprenticeship system. Under these
proposals a selected number of formal technical and vocational institutions will have their focus
redirected so that they are able to offer short (up to 12 weeks) competency based training for masters
and for apprentices with at least 18 months of experience. Trade associations will play a central role
in the new programme by selecting participants for training, identifying the competencies covered in
the short courses, and selecting items to be included in tool and equipment kits sold to masters and
apprentices at subsidized prices.
Government will over the coming five years ensure that:
-      Some selected public institutions will be directed to reduce their regular
enrollments to free facilities and staff time to work on the proposed competency-based
training for the informal sector and to re-arrange time-tables to allow for the



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 3
simultaneous conduct of the new and the old training programs during the normal
school hours.
Incentives will be provided to private institutions to guarantee that staff and facilitators
will be made available for the new competency-based courses over the life of the
project and a re-ordering of time-tables to accommodate the new programme alongside
the old. Training to be provided by private institutions is to be financed partly on a
fee basis and partly through contractual arrangements with the institutions.
To ensure high levels of participation and sustainability, the project will use the trade
associations in the implementation and monitoring of the project. Areas in which the
trade associations will be of immense help include selection of master craftsmen and
apprentices for training, information dissemination on the labour force needs to the
business community, and acting as vehicles of support the development of the micro
and small enterprise sector.
To ensure sustainability of project concepts Government will promote that active
involvement of a number of key institutions in project implementation namely; the
Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation Division of the MOE; the Labour
Department of the MESW; and the Ghana Statistical Service.
Government will ensure that detailed labour force statistics are collected analyzed, and
used, and that there is follow-up of the impact, both of the new short courses and the
long term regular courses.
Government is committed to adapt intakes into regular long-term vocational training
so that it is more in line with labour force realities. Government is also committed to
expand the short competency based courses being supported by the proposed project if
these prove to be more effective than the long term courses. A series of meetings
would then be organized to encourage donors and private providers to redirect their
efforts to the short courses.
Government is currently concerned in developing a range of focused competency-
based training. New outlines based on existing curricula will be developed through an
interface with master craftsmen, apprentices and some instructors. Before training
commences, these outlines will be further reviewed by trade panels to be constituted
under NACVET and circulated for further comments.
We are hopeful that the proposed project will set in motion a sustainable programme of
Informal Sector growth and an improvement in artisanal skills in the country.
Yours sincerely,
Dr. Kwesi Botchwey
Minister of Finance



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
EMPLOYMENT STATISTICS FROM THE GHANA LIVING STANDARD SURVEY
OCCUPATIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYED PERSONS
AGE 15+ IN SAMPLE POPULATION, 1992
OCCUPATION                 NUMBER       PLRCENTAGE
PROFESSIONAL, TECHNICAL       357            4.1
AND RELATED WORKERS
ADMINISTRATIVE AND             18            0.2
MANAGERIAL WORKERS
CLERICAL AND RELATED          202            2.3
WORKERS
SALES AND RELATED            1284           14.7
WORKERS
SERVICE AND RELATED           228            2.6
WORKERS
AGRICULTURAL AND OTHER       5452           62.6
RELATED WORKERS
PRODUCTION AND               1172           13.5
RELATED WORKERS
ALL OCCUPATIONS             8,713          100.0
Prequerncy Migling               6
TOTAL                        8, 719



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLE POPULATION OF
INFORMAL/PRIVATE SECTOR WORKERS BY OCCUPATION AND AREA, 1992
Rural     Urban      All
Occupation
Miner                3.39       2.33      2.80
Metal processor      0.26       0.21      0.23
Wood & paper worker  0.52       1.90       1.29
Chemical processor   0.26                 0,12
Textile worker       8.09       1.27      4.32
Tanner              052        1.06      0.52
Food processor       49.61      39.11     43.81
Tobacco worker                  0.21      0.12
Tallor               12.27     16.49      14.60
Shoe & leather       0.78       1.69       1.29
Cabinet mkr.
woodwk.              2,87       4.02      3.50
Stone cutter         0.52       0.21      0.35
Blacksmith tools     3.39       1.90      2.57
Mechanics            2.61       11.42     7.48
Electrician          2.09       7.61      5.14
Plumber, welder      1.04      2.54       1.87
Jeweller                        0.85      0.47
Potter, glazier      1.83                 0.82
Rubber, plastic wkr.           0.65       0.47
Construct worker     9.92      0.34       7.94
ALL OCCUPATIONS    100          100       100
Source: GLS, G88



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMAL/PRIVATE SECTOR WORKERS
BY REGION AND OCCUPATION, 1992
Western   Central   a reoter   Eastern   Volta     Aoha'n    0rong Ahefc Nornemn    Upper    Upper
Accra                                                            Weot       E"t
Oocupsefn
Minor                10.31      105       0.63      2 25      1.48      6.40
Metal proceseot                           0.41                1,4a
Wood& paper workor  1.03        1.05      0.41                          4.60       3.03
Chemical proceosor   1.03
Textile worker                            0.41      2.25      18,84     8.00       7.88      10.17
Tanner                                    1.86      1.12      1.45                           1869
Food processor       44.33      57.89    4481       82.81     42.03     2880       31.82     50.85      50.00        20.00
Tobecco workat                                      1.12
Tailor              6.19       13.l8     15.77      17.98     13.04     18.15     13.88
Shoe & leather                  1.05      0.41      1.12      1.45      4.00       3.03
Cabinet mky.
woodwkl.             12.37      1.05      3.73      2.25      4.35                 3.03                10.00
Slone cutler         1 .03               0.83
Blacksmith lools     1.03      2.11       0.83     85.2       1 45      0 80      7.51       5.08      20.00
Mechanics            13.40      7.37      9.13      8.82      2.90      O.0        7.58     5t08
ileotrlclen          2.06      4.21       8.71      3.37      2.90      6.40       6.0o
Plumber, weldot      1.03                 2.07                          1.60       3.03      0.47      10.00
Jeweller                                  0.63      1.12      1.48
Potter, glazIer                                                         1.0e                           10.00      80.00
Rubber, plaste wkr.                       1.e8
Coneiruatworker      8.19       10.53    7.47       3.37      7.25      12.00      12.12     5.08
ALLOCCUPATIONS    100.00    100.00    100.00    10000    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00          100.00    100.00
oruce: 0L86, 066



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
EMPLOYMENT STATISTICS FROM THE GHANA LIVING STANDARD SURVEY
NUMBER OF PAST AND CURRENT APPRENTICES BY TRADE
BEFORE  1992 AND
TRADE            1992    AFTER    TOTAL
CARPENTRY           109        44      153
MASONRY              80        25      105
TAILORING           569        191     760
BLACKSMITHING        28         16      44
MECHANICS           170        87      257
ELECTRONICS         100        24      124
SPRAYING             33          7      40
OTHER               551        136     687
ALL                1640       530    2170                                             xs
Source: Ghana Living Standard Survey
NUMBER OF APPRENTICES BY TRADE AND BY LENGTH OF TRAINING
- - MONTHS--                 -----      YEARS----------------
TRADE                     3       6       1        2         3       4       5       6      7+      ALL
CARPENTRY                26       5       1        1         1       1                2       7      44
MASONRY                  13       4                          3                        2       3      25
TRAILORING              102       4       3        6        13       7       5       13      38     191
BLACK SMITHING            3       3       4        1                 2       1        1       1      16
MECHANICS                44      17                3         6       3       1       5        8      87
ELECTRONICS              12       3       1                  2               1       4        1      24
SPRAYING                  2               2                          1                        2       7   
OTHER                    64       9       5        5        11       3       3       11      25     136         o w
ALL                     266      45       16      16        36      17      11       38      85     530         " 



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
RESULTS OF THE MINIMUMI WAGE SURVEY
(May/June 1994)
Region                       No. of Establishments        No. of Establishments
sampled                      paying 790 Cedis
Greater Accra                       37                            13
Bron Ahafo                          45                           37
Ashanti                             28                           23
Western                             28                           28
Upper West                           9                            4
Eastern                              13                           8
Central                              8                            4
Upper East                           10                           8
Volta                                2                            1
9 Regions                            180                          126
Coverage: Enterprises involved in this survey employ between 1-5 employees.



- 50 -                         ANNEX 3-3
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Statistics of Other Government Skills Training Institutes and Private Technical Institutions
Government and Private Institutes
REGION       NUMBER OF        NUMBER OF             TOTAL
GOVERNMENT       PRIVATE
INSTITUTES       INSTITUTES
ASHANTI          11               45                56
BRONG-AHAFO      13               9                 22
CENTRAL          22               40                62
EASTERN          22               45                67
GREATER ACCRA   21                58                79
NORTHERN         7                1                 8
UPPER EAST       10               1                 11
UPPER WEST       7                2                 9
VOLTA            27               33                60
WESTERN          16               16                32
ALL REGIONS      156              250               406



Government Institutes
REGION        GES    ICCES      NVTI      DCD   YOUTH &  TRANSPORT   DSW    RATIS/ITTU  NST. OF    MOA        TOTAL
II_   SPORTS                                      ADULT ED.
ASHANTI              1        4        2          _       3          _         _          1         _        -        11
BRONG-AHAFO          1        5        2         2                             -                        |   1         13
CENTRAL              2        13        3        1 l      _                         1               _   I   1         22
EASTERN              5        10        1        2        2                    l 1       1          -   I   _         22
GT. ACCRA            3        6        2         2        3          1         2         1          1        -        21
NORTEHRN             1        2         1        1        -          -         -                                      7
UPPER EAST           2        3        -         2        _                    2         1         _         -        10
UPPER WEST           -    Ti           5   1-                  -               -                                      7
!VOLTA                3   T   17        3    !   1         2          _.                                             27
IWESTERN              2   I   6          1       3        1   |                1 l   __ 1          _   I   1          16
ALL REGIONS          20   1   67       20   i   14       11    i     1    _|    8=       101 j        I      4       156
KEY:
GES: GHANA EDUCATION SERVICE                                                                                                   Ln
ICCES: INTEGRATED COMMUNITY CENTRES FOR EMPLOYABLE SKILLS
NVTI: NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING INSTITUTE
DCD: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
YOUTH AND SPORTS: MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORTS
TRANSPORT: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
DSW: DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WELFARE
GRATIS/ITTU: 3HANA REGIONAL APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIAL SERVICE/INTERMEDIATE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER UNITS
INST. OF ADULT ED.: INSTITUTE OF ADULT EDUCATION
MOA: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
o 



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Statistics on GES Technical Institutes
ist  ~YEAR' TOTAL  12ND    YEAR ITOTAL   3RD    YEAR  ~TOTAL  ~4TH    YEAR   TOTAL    --PAT- TIME_STUDENT                                         GRAND TOTAL
INSTITUTE -   m            F                 m        F       T         M       F      T           M       F        T        M            F           T
KUMASI                       4 14       6      420    342.         2      34 4    338         3      -341  0_ __O       0         0___    I214           -3       12                      2,322
SUNYANI                      38       17       45       25       46   ~271         163      27       19    -16         I0       26         -189         259781.0
ASUANSI                      243        0      243    329          0      329      245        0      24 5       0                 6    --                  0            081
CAPE-COA -ST         ~       150        0       150     150        0      150      150        0      150-       0       0         0          -I            0            6 -                 1685
ABETIFI                        55      13        68      40        6       46       34        a       42        0--  3                         o        -- 6_____
AKWANA         ____          116        1        17      9         4       96        0      68        6                                - 26-028657
ST. JOSEPH             48      14        62  _23           6       29       20        0       20   14            0       4            0           00                                125
KOFORiDUA                    164        0      1 64     135        0      13        0                 0         7       0        4           1                       518    _ _96                    
ST. PAUL S            -     ..1~        0      161      159        0      159      143       0           4 3    284     0      28-4         531            0         531                   1,278
ACCRA           ____         192        1       193     158        1      159-    170      o-    f70'   98             0        08 -       858            4         _862                  1,482 
ACA                           90       22       112      72        9       81       52        7       59 ____           0                                  ~                                  5
TEWA                         341_    30        371   -325    -12          337_7 1- 22                           0       0 -    0              6               0         0_ _                 730
SABOBA                        47        0       47       28      0-        28        2      0    ~   27         0       0         0                                                     ___010
BAWKU  --                    17         2      10        96        1       97   _80         0__       a(        0       0         0                                     0-53
BOLGA                 1~~~~33    '104   27       94        0 4              65       30       O        cO                -6                o 0653
HAVE                         2iS  --50.    266          -54      27        81       16    __2 -       28-                      0           0                         039
ANLO0                        121   26 147 76                     Ti3        91      74        6       80        0       0 _       0           0            0            0O                   318
KPANDO                       4 79      51        30    20        45       25        24      3 3       62      29                 46-          0                         6                     3
TAKORADI              ~~3 7     0        37      3         0       31       30        0       3003                       3'  -         0           0
19        0       169     150~    0--       -150     131               030 0                                           0                  0                      04



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Enrollment in 1994 in the National Vocational Training Institutes
No.           Training Centers                             M            F          Total
1.            KVTC Kumasi                                 171           3           174
2.            Titus Glover                                 56           3            59
3.            Chirapatre                                    -           -              -
4.            VTC Domaa                                    99           5           104
5.            VTC Yamfo                                   122           2           124
6.            VFRC Biriwa                                 420          83           503
7.            VTC Gomoa Ada                                76           2            78
8.            VTC Winneba                                  87           2            89
9.            VTC Abetifi                                  32         181           213
10.           PTC. Accra                                 990           4            994
11.           Pilot Training Center                        77           1            78
12.           VTC, Tamale                                 113           1           114
13.           Anglican VTC Zuarungu                        88         38            126
14.           St. Anne VTC Nandom                           -        256            256
15.           Nandom PVTC                                  88           -            88
16.           St. Basilides VTC, Kaleo                     96          3             99
17.           St. Clares VTC, Tumu                          1         87             88
18.           Canboni, Sogakope                          251          124           375
19.           St. Theresa Vic Abor                         38         23             61
20.           EPTTC, Alavanyo                              91          32           123
21.           Twiga, Tarkwa                                26          45            71
Total                                                                3817
a:nvti (ja9O-b)



- 54 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Draft Contract Agreement between Ministry of Education
and Trainin, Institutions for the Provision of
Training for Selected Institutions
This Agreement is made the ...........  day of ..     month and ...            ... year,
between the Republic of Ghana, through its authorized representative, the Ministry of Education,
P.O. Box M45 Accra, (herein after referred to as MOE), and the ......... ............. (herein referred
to as institution), represented by its principal, Mr./Mrs ....................... and, if applicable, its
owner, Mr./Mrs .......... whose registered address is:
Whereas the MOE has entered into an agreement with the International Development Association
(IDA) to extend a credit to the Republic of Ghana (Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support
Project), a part of which will be used to finance the costs for the introduction of short-term
competency based training in selected public and private training institutions throughout the country.
Whereas the MOE has agreed to enter into contract with this training institution represented jointly by
the principal, and, where applicable, its owner.
Whereas the training institution is ready and willing to commit itself to providing the service
requested by the MOE on the said terms and conditions, non therefore the parties hereto hereby agree
as follows:
Whereas the MOE requests the services of qualified teaching staff and the use of the physical facilities
of the training institution in the context of the Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support Project,
and on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, and
1.    OBJECTIVES OF THE AGREEMENT
The primary objective of this short-term training is to improve the skills and competencies of informal
sector apprentices and of mastercraftsmen/women in the following selected occupational areas of the
informal sector, namely:
a) electrical installation;
b) refrigeration and air conditioning;
c) carpentry and joinery;
d) dressmaking and tailoring;
e) blockmaking and concreting.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 5
Support from the training institution will focus on (a) the provision of short term competency based
training programs; and (b) assistance in the provision of tool kits to trainees at the end of each
training cycle.
2.     OBLIGATIONS OF THE INSTITUTION
The institution shall:
(a)    assist in the selection of trainees for the new short-term competency based courses at
the said institution. Any apprentices covered by this project must be in possession of
a NACVET intake voucher printed out in his/her name, and countersigned by his/her
master. On admittance this voucher should be given to the institution.
(b)    undertake short-term competency based training for periods that have been deternined
in consultation with MOE and the respective Trade Associations. These are:
(i)                    weeks for                 (course),
(ii)                   weeks for                 (course),
(iii)                  weeks for                 (course),
(iv)                   weeks for                 (course),
(v)                    weeks for                 (course).
Each course shall be open to a maximum of twenty (20) trainees and shall be
conducted three times per year beginning _ _    (date). The institution will
ensure that necessary rehabilitation works will be completed, and that the necessary
training equipment and materials will be on site prior to the start of the training
program.
(c)    make available at all times the services of qualified teaching staff for each course for
the purpose of providing the training described in 2 (a) above, whereby two staff are
each assigned a group of 20 trainees per trade per cycle.
(d)    allocate _    hours per day,     days per week during each training cycle for
course instruction.
(e)    collect a training fee of 10,000 cedis or any other amount as determined by MOE
from each trainee and deposit such funds in a dedicated account to cover the cost of
training materials, and allow the trainees to keep any goods produced with these
materials.
(f)    Store tool kits provided by MOE, in a safe place, and only issue to apprentices when
they have deposited amounts fixed by MOE from time to time in account -
and presented the bank pay slip to the institution.
(g)    have the account mentioned in sections (e) and (f) above inspected annually by the
MOE.
(h)    provide at all times adequate care, servicing, and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment provided by the MOE to the institution for the purpose of carrying out the
training described in 2 (b) above.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 5
(i)    provide the training specified in 2 (b) above to those that have been selected by the
said institution.
(j)    deliver the training in accordance with the training course curriculum (and any other
training support material) provided by MOE.
(k)    repay the true and fair value of the support provided by the MOE to the said
institution for the rehabilitation and/or extension and equipping of the facilities.
Credit towards repayment shall be made on presentation or intake vouchers and other
evidence determined from time to time that will show that a certain number of
apprentices have been trained. Such credit will be determined on the basis of fixed
rates established by MOE from time to time. Once repayment has been made in full.
MOE will reimburse the cost of training according to the same schedule. Repayment
can be made through the running of short-courses for apprentices as specified in
section (b) above.
(I)    allow MOE to inspect without prior notice the training facility, equipment, tools, and
training materials and to observe the instructional process during workshop hours.
(m)   repay the MOE the true and fair value of the total support received by the institution
less the credit earned through the provision of apprentice training should the MOE
deem that this contract is not being fulfilled, or only partly fulfilled, or should the
institution choose not to continue the said training program under the terms and
conditions of this contract.
3.     OBLIGATIONS OF MOE
MOE shall:
(a)    rehabilitate workshop facilities related to training in any of the five selected trades
which the institution has opted to train in the amount of     per trade.
(b)    provide sets of appropriate equipment to the institutions for the conduct of training.
(c)    design and develop short-focussed competency-based curriculum and the
accompanying training materials for the training programmes and have them revised
periodically in response to changing needs of the direct beneficiaries of training.
(d)    train selected staff of the training institutions for the purpose of carrying out the short-
term training programme.
(e)    maintain and manage the revolving funds generated by each training institutions to be
used solely for replenishing tool and equipment kits and for paying for training
beyond project life.
(f)    monitor and evaluate the work of the training institutions to ensure they maintain the
standard of training.
(g)    Carryout tracer studies on a sample of both the apprentices passing through the
institutes, as well as of graduates of more regular training programmes from the same
institutes.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 4 of 5
(g)    undertake any other activity which will promote the efficient achievement of project
objectives.
4.     DURATION OF CONTRACT
This contract is effective from the date of signature by both parties for a period of five years in the
first instance.
5.     RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE TRAINING INSTITUTION
The rights and obligations of the said institution are limited strictly to the terms and conditions of this
contract.
6.     CONFIDENTIALITY
The training institution shall not, either during the term or within two (2) years after the expiration of
this Contract, disclose to any person, Government or other entity external to the MOE, confidential
information relating to the Programme, or any unpublished information made known to the institution
by reason of performing the functions under the terms of this Contract except as required by the
assignment or upon authorization by the Ministry of Education. This provision shall survive the
expiration or rescission of the Contract.
7.     STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
The training institution shall conduct training at all times with the fullest regard for the purposes and
principles of the MOE, and in a manner benefitting its relationship with the MOE under this Contract.
8.     FAIRNESS AND GOOD FAITH
8.1    Good Faith
The Parties undertake to act in good faith with respect to each other's rights under this Contract and
to adopt all reasonable measures to ensure the realization of the objectives of this Contract.
The Parties shall use their best effort to settle amicably all disputes arising out of or in connection
with this Contract or the interpretation thereof.
9.     SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
9.1    Amicable Settlement
The Parties shall use the best effort to settle amicably all disputes arising out of, or in connection
with, this Contract or the interpretation thereof.
9.2    Right to Arbitration
Any dispute between the Parties as to matters arising pursuant to this Contract which cannot be settled
amicably within thirty (30) days after receipt by one Party of the other Party's request for such
amicable settlement may be submitted by either Party to arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration
Act of 1960.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 5
10.    TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
This Contract may be terminated before the proposed date of termination after giving ninety (90) days
notice from either party in writing. When the contract is terminated, the conditions specified in
section 2 (e,f,k,l, and m) of the Obligations of the Institution shall prevail.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties confirm to adhere to all details of this Contract, and to cause
this Contract to be signed in their respective names as of the day, month and year first above written.
11.    AMENDMENT
Amendments to the agreement shall be in writing and signed by both parties.
12.    NOTICES
All correspondence relating to the execution of the agreement shall be sent to the addresses
indicated in the preamble to this agreement.
For and on behalf of the Institution              For and on behalf of the
MOE
Name:
Address:
In the presence of                         In the presence of
Name:                                      ..................................
Title:
Address:   ..........................
a:contract (ja9O-b)



- 59 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR INSTITUTIONS TO BE SUPPORTED
The following conditions must exist before a public or private institution can be
considered for participation within the project.
-     The existence of an appropriate number of informal sector workshops
within the locality of the institution to ensure demand for apprentice
training for at least four years.
-     Evidence of staff experienced in teaching practical sills.
-     Ability to dedicate an appropriate workshop for each type of trade training
to be provided to apprentices sponsored by the project.
-     Ability to rehabilitate, where necessary, any or all dedicated workshops to
appropriate standards for no more than 10,000,000 cedis for public schools
and 3,000,000 cedis for private schools in each trade offered, for which
credit will be available from the project, excepting that institution's own
funds shall be used beyond this amount to achieve appropriate standards.
lThe ability to provide utilities and secure storage for any equipment that
may be provided within the project.
Willingness to participate fully in the project and to comply with
procedures and requirements of the project, including the inspection of the
institute and its staff at any time before or during the period of participation
within the project, including the inspection of the instructional process.
An institution will be accepted to take part in the project and will be authorized to
begin providing training when it has:
-     signed a contract agreement with the MOE;
demonstrated a willingness to comply with procedures and requirements of
the project,
provided evidence of staff able to teach practical skills within each trade to
be offered;



- 60 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 2
rehabilitated dedicated training workshop(s) to an appropriate standard;
installed and commissioned equipment and provided secure storage and a
secure lending system for tools provided within the project,
only distributed tool kits to the trainees on completion of their courses and
presentation of evidence that they have paid the due amount in full.
collaborated with local master craftsmen and their associations to identify
groups of approximately twenty apprentices or twenty master craftsmen to
be trained during the first cycle of training; and only admitted those with
intake vouchers.
An institution will maintain its participation within the project so long as it
continues to:
provide quality practical training in keeping with the curriculum provided in
the quality specified in the contract;
-     maintain the dedicated workshop at an appropriate standard,
-     maintain equipment and tools in good working condition;
-     maintain secure storage and a secure lending system for tools,
-     kept good and reliable records of the tool and equipment kits and only
released such kits when full evidence of payment of all outstanding
amounts is made;
provide appropriate consumable for each cycle of each trade course;
only accept apprentices and/or master craftsmen with intake vouchers for
training in the particular field;
allow comprehensive inspection of the dedicated training space(s),
equipment, tools, systems, and instruction with or without notice.
The continuing participation of an institution may be denied if inspection reveals
that any of the conditions described above are not maintained. Participation may be
discontinued for an entire institution or for a single trade training program, and may be
restored when deficiencies are corrected.
AF4
A:\NICHOLA5.DOC
March 7, 1995 5:20 PM



- 61 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS SELECTED TO PROVIDE TRAINING
Introduction. During project preparation, a number of training institutions were
evaluated for their ability to meet project objectives. These institutions were grouped by ownership
(Government, NGO, and private) and occupational area. In addition, KATTC was selected to
provide technical teacher training, and MDPI was selected to conduct the business management
portion of the Masters Training Program.
Government Institutions.  Fourteen Government institutions were selected to
provide training in each of the five trades representing approximately 53% of the anticipated
apprentice enrollment. Of these schools, the Technical Institutes were selected to also provide
technical training for the master craftsmen and women. Although for the most part, schools were
selected on the basis of existing faculty expertise in the subject areas and the condition of existing
facilities and equipment, these criteria could not be applied in all cases for refrigeration and air
conditioning. For this reason, four schools will be teaching this subject for the first time with
assistance from NACVET, GES and the Trade Associations.
NGO and Private Institutions. Twenty-six NGO and private institutions were also
selected to provide training in each of the five trades based upon the same criteria used to select the
Government institutions. These institutions will conduct courses for the remaining 47% of the
anticipated apprentice enrollment. Also due to lack of prior experience with refrigeration and air
conditioning courses, four of these schools will be teaching this subject for the first time with
assistance from NACVET, GES and the Trade Associations.
KATTC. Because of its unique status as a technical teacher training institution,
KATTC was selected to conduct short training courses for all instructors in the program. The
main facility in Kumasi will be used for those instructors living within a reasonable traveling
distance, with the remaining instructors being served at various locations around the country. In
this regard, off-campus instruction will be led by KATTC staff at training institutions that have
been selected to participate in the program.
MDPI. Due in part to its experience with similar training under the TRP 1 and
TRP2 projects, business management training will be conducted by MDPI at its Aecra and Kumasi
locations. Off-campus instruction will also be conducted at selected sites around the country when
it is deemed more efficient and cost effective.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS SELECTED TO PROVIDE TRAINING
NO.            TRA._G____T_TUT__                      El        RAC         CJ         DT         BC
*non 1: Govefwnment
I          TechnW Institute, Terru x                            R          x          x           x
2     kofoidua Technical Institute. K'djm            x                     x                      x
3     St.Padl's Tech. bt., Kukurantu                 x          R          x                      x
4     KpanduTech. inst.. Kpwndu                      x          R           x                     x
5          Coast Toch. nst., C    Coast              x          R          x           R          x
6     r.adiTech. hst.. Takac                         x          x
7             Tec. i.Suy                             x                     x                      x
8            Tedncal situts, awku                    x          .           x                     x
9         lPit Trinmg Came, Accra                    x          x           x                     x                         C
10      r     Voc. Trmbn Centre, Tarrie                                     x                      x
11        tre for Rural Industry, S&                             -                     s
12          Tech. Trg. Cenr.Accra                    x           x          x                      x
13        siTch. hist., Kuwna                       x           x          x                     x
14      btiIomen s Trg Centre. adinh AR         .                                      x
ColBon2:PtjySt wn NGOs
is     dCml c-, Tedhrical hstut, Surnyaif            x          A
16       nbWomns VocCsnresor                                     - .                   x
17     IMCA Voc Trg hst., Cape Coast                 .                                 x
18            Technl nstiute, Kuan                                          x                      x
19    Rgs rVoc IrW., Kursi                           .x                                           x
20             Pacal Voc kst., Nandom                            .          x          .           x
21     StA's Voc bst., Nndomn                                    .          .          x           .
22            Girls' Voc. hst., Accra                 .          .                     x           .-
23        CAVoc.Trg. Cere, Accra           .                                x K .
24        BetmB ette's Voc. Int. Nd.wongo                                   x          R           .
25      onboniVoc. Tro. Centre, Soy                             _           - _                    - _                   I



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS SELECTED TO PROVIDE TRAINING
(continued)
NO.   [        TRAINING INSTITUTION                  El        RAC   |SCJ             DT          BC
26      oyal Technical Irstitute, Nungua             x          R          R                      x
27    Son         Technical Insktte, Somanya         x          R           x                     x
28    hstinut o1 Technology, Hohoo                   x           .                                x
29     nst Adv Radio & Tdecotn, Kuuasi               x          x                      .
30    Gom   and Sons Ltd., Taniale                   x          R                      .
31        of Dom Sc & Cateing, Ktotbabi, Accra                                         x -
32     ity Educ. Conmlex. Kufuemsi                                                     x                                      a
33            Gids' Voc. Inst., Kurms                .                      .          x
34    Sp.citCawing and Voc. lnt., Tom                                                  x
35           War. Girls' Voc hnst., Kuma"                                              x
36             Vocatioral Inst., Twls                                       -          x
37        sewige Centr, Accra                        -                                 x
38          Gis' Voc. Sch., Achiota AR               -                                 x
39       Voc. 3, Tech. Trg Coe.n   Accra             .                      x          x
,40            vc Sc., Tesh:_.  ., A                                                    x_
dswW:                                  0   -T Dresurin and TJ lring
El -Eberii         4    Cotaiation     BC - mloclaying end Concretirg
R4AC  Rdri*'estion and Air Conditonirlg    x - on-going, 20 trames per class for project
CJ - Carp try and Join"  WoodwoIk   Ft 'recornmmnded, 20 tranees pw clas for pfoject
(rtTI



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
REQUIRED NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS PER TRADE
Course TitLe                Duration                                  ScheduLe by Weeks
Hours        01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
Apprentices:
Refrigeration/                  360            x         -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -
Air Conditioning
Electricat Installation         360            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Carpentry/Joinery               360            x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  A  -                    x -   -  A  x  -  x  -  x  -
Blocktaying/Concrete            180            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Dressmaking/TaiLoring           360            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Masters:
Refrigeration/                  120            x  x  x  x  x  x
Air Conditioning
ElectricaL Installation          72            x  x  x  x  x  x
Carpentry/Joinery               180            x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -  x  -
BLockLaying/Concrete            120            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Dressmaking/TaiLoring           144            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Instructors:
AUl Courses                      60            x  x
WEEKLY SCHEDULES
Apprentices:
Refrigeration/Air Conditioning             6 hours per day x 5 days per week a 30 hours
ELectricaL Installation                    6 hours per day x 4 days per week a 24 hours
Carpentry/Joinery                          6 hours per day x 5 days per week z 30 hours
BLockLaying/Concrete                       3 hours per day x 5 days per week = 15 hours
Dressmaking/TaiLoring                      6 hours per day x 5 days per week - 30 hours
Masters:
Refrigeration/Air Conditioning             5 hours per day x 4 days per week - 20 hours
ElectricaL InstaLLation                    3 hours per day x 4 days per week - 12 hours
Carpentry/Joinery                          6 hours per day x 5 days per week - 30 hours
BLocklaying/Concrete                       3 hours per day x 5 days per week = 15 hours
Dressmaking/Tailoring                      4 hours per day x 3 days per week a 12 hours
Instructors:
All Courses                                6 hours per day x 5 days per week * 30 hours



- 65 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE TRAINING PROGRAM
Introduction.  The apprenticeship system  has played a historic role in the
development of the industrialized nations. In earlier times, this process of passing skills and
knowledge from one generation to another occurred solely in the workplace as master craftsmen
and women taught their apprentices on the job. During this century however, with the increasing
complexity of technology and greater market demand for quality and cost efficiencies, the
developed countries have sought to improve the apprenticeship process by combining it with formal
instruction conducted at vocational training institutions. Thus today, it is quite common in
developed countries for apprentices to attend training programs on a released time basis during
working or non-working hours in order to focus on skills and knowledge which may be difficult to
obtain on the job.
In parallel with the apprenticeship trends noted above, the advances in technology
and increasing global competition have placed additional strains upon the ability of master
craftsmen and women to keep up with the latest techniques of their trade and modem business
practices. For this reason, the developed countries have for many years encouraged short courses
for masters in support of the various trades and small scale enterprises. The successful experience
with the above types of training assistance to apprentices and masters has formed the basis for the
training program supported by this project.
Apprenticeship Training. As shown by the example of the Carpentry and Joinery
Program the five apprenticeship training courses supported by this project will focus entirely upon
the strengthening and development of everyday skills needed in the workplace. To accomplish this,
the following guidelines will be applied:
a.     Course Content. Course content will be determined through joint consultation
between the trade associations, the training providers, and NACVET. Course
modules will focus upon the explanation and demonstration of specific skill
development exercises that will, through their sequential integration with other
exercises, lead to greater productivity, quality and efficiency in the apprentices'
work outputs. Depending upon the trade, it is expected that at least 60% to 75%
of the course will be devoted to practical work performed by the apprentices under
the supervision of their instructors. Wherever possible, the practical exercises will
be centered around the design, planning, and completion of a work project
encompassing most of the skills required in the course, thus simulating the
production process as it is found in the workplace. Theory, written exercises, and
traditional lecture presentations will only be applied when and where they are
directly related to the acquisition of skills needed on the job.  In addition,
instruction will be given on the basic principles of small scale business operations.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 3
b.    Instructional Methodoloy. At the beginning of each course, the trainees will be
given a series of practical exercises to determine their individual skill levels. This
will permit better grouping for instructional purposes, and will provide a
benchmark to measure progress during the course. The primary method of
instruction will encompass (i) an explanation of the work process, (ii) presentation
of any directly related theory, (iii) presentation of all necessary tools and
equipment, (iv) planning and design, and (v) demonstration of the process. The
apprentices will proceed to carry out the various work processes under the
supervision of the instructor.  Throughout these exercises, the instructor will
emphasize work quality, accuracy, and the efficient use of time and materials.
c.     Trainee Evaluation. While there will be no pass or fail requirements for these
courses, apprentices will be assessed by the quality of their project work. At the
end of the course, instructors will review individual progress made during the
course and advise the apprentices on areas of skill strengths and/or weaknesses.
The instructors will also provide guidance and counseling for follow up skill
development when the apprentices return to their employers.
d.     Course Scheduling. Courses will vary in scheduling and duration according to the
released time requirements of the apprentices' employers and the ability of the
training providers to adapt their schedules. These courses will vary from 180 to
360 hours of instruction over periods ranging from  12 to 24 weeks.  This
scheduling represents an initial agreement between all parties, but may be subject
to modifications as required by changing conditions and/or experience.
Master Training. As shown in the example of the Carpentry and Joinery Program
for Masters the five masters training courses supported by this project will focus upon (i) the better
use of existing technologies, (ii) new technologies, and (iii) business management operations.
Thus, skill development will be a lesser part of these programs, with greater emphasis on
production systems and techniques, and entrepreneurial principles.  To accomplish this, the
following guidelines will be applied:
a.     Course Content. Course content will be determined through joint consultation
between the trade associations, the training institutions, and NACVET. The
training will be divided into two sessions.  The technical sessions will be
conducted at the Government owned Technical Institutes, while the business
management sessions will be conducted by MDPI in Accra and at other locations
around the country. Technical course content will focus on the explanation and
demonstration of new and existing technologies with emphasis upon better
production techniques, quality control, cost estimates, and overall workshop
efficiency.   Business management course content will focus upon basic
accounting, domestic and export marketing, contract management, workshop
supervision, and relevant laws and regulations.
b.     Instructional Methodology. The method of instruction for the technical sessions
will encompass (i) the explanation of various technologies and production
techniques, (ii) prevention of relevant theory, (iii) presentation of the necessary



- 67 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 3 of 3
tools and equipment, (iv) design, planning and estimation of work, and (v)
demonstration of the processes. The masters will then perform practice exercises
to become acquainted with the various processes, but due to time constraints, will
not necessarily become proficient at them. The method of instruction for the
business management sessions will encompass (i) lecture presentations, (ii)
seminar discussions, (iii) practice exercises, (iv) case studies, and (v) field visits to
local enterprises.
c.     Trainee Evaluation. As with the Apprentice Training Program, there will be no
pass or fail requirements for these courses.  At the end of the course, the
instructors will conduct evaluation sessions with each group to determine key
areas of interest and future business plans and/or changes that the masters intend
to carry out as a result of the program.
d.     Course Scheduling. The courses will vary in scheduling and duration according to
the time the masters can spare from their businesses and the ability of the training
providers to adapt their schedules. These courses will vary from 72 to 180 hours
of instruction over periods ranging from  6 to 12 weeks.  This scheduling
represents an initial agreement between all parties, but may be subject to
modifications as required by changing conditions and/or experience.
e.     Instructor Training.  In order to improve and standardize the delivery of the
various courses, instructor training will be supported by the project, and carried
out by KATTC. The content of this training will be determined through joint
consultations between the Trade Associations, the training providers, NACVET,
and KATTC, and will focus solely upon the content and methodology of training
for the apprentices and masters. The instructor trainees will work in groups to
develop the instructional materials and practice the delivery of the course modules.
Because of their various backgrounds (ie; technical instructors and masters), it is
anticipated that a good mix of technical concepts and practical applications will be
integrated into the program. This training will be conducted at KATTC and at
other locations around the country during two week sessions.
f.     Enrollment Targets. The enrollment breakdown for the various trades and the
instructor training. During the first year of the project, 5 10 instructors will be
trained.  During the second through the sixth years of the project, 20,400
apprentices and 4,500 masters are expected to be trained.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-6
GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLANS - TARGETS OF NUMBERS OF TRAINEES BY TRADE
TRAINING ACTIVITIES                                   ENROLLMENT
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6    Total
A. Apprentices:
Electrical Installation          -         340    1020    1020    1020         680    4080
Refrigeration and Air Cond.      -         260      780      780      780      520    3120
Carpentry and Joinery            -         360    1080    1080    1080         720    4320
Dressmaking and Tailoring        -         400    1200    1200    1200         800    4800
Blockmaking and Masonry          -         340    1020    1020    1020         680    4080
Total                            -        1700    5100    5100    5100    3400   20400
B. Mastercraftsmen & women:
Electrical Installation          -         200      200      200      200      100      900
Refrigeration and Air Cond.      -         170      170      170      120       70      700
Carpentry and Joinery            -         210      210      210      210      110      950
Dressmaking and Tailoring        -         230      230      23C      230      130    1050
Blockmaking and Masonry          -         200      200      200      200      100      900
Total                            -        1010    1010    1010        960      510    4500
C. Instructor training:
Electrical Installation            68    -           34    -         -        -         102
Refrigeration and Air Cond.        52    -           26    -         -        -          78
Carpentry and Joinery              64    -           44    -         -        -         108
Dressmaking and Tailoring          80    -           40    -         -        -         120
Blockmaking and Masonry            68    -           34    -         -        -         102
Total                             332    -          178    -         -        -         510
GRAND TOTAL (A+B+CI               664    2710    6110    6110    6060    3910   25564



- 69 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
OPPORTUNITY COSTS OF TRAINING OF APPRENTICES AND MASTERS
Successful improvements in workplace productivity can only occur when skilled workers
are provided with the necessary tools and equipment to perform their jobs. For this reason, the
project will provide apprentices and masters with certain basic tools and equipment which will be
distributed by the schools upon completion of the training. In order to keep costs within affordable
limits, the composition of the trainee tool kits has been designed in such a way that total costs will
not exceed the trainees' ability to pav plus the opportunity costs of their time away from work.
These costs have been determined in consultation with the Trade Associations and as shown in the
following tables, they will vary between the trades. In addition to the basic tool kits, apprentices
and masters will have the opportunity to obtain optional tools and equipment at full cost.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
OPPORTUNITY COSTS OF TRAINING OF APPRENTICES AND MASTERS
Table A.: Basic KiU (amount In C)
Apprentice                             Muster
WilliSgnwa Opportunity   Total       Wiliingnwa   Opportunity   Total
to Pay       co"                     to Pay       cost
R.fngeritlon    100,000      120,00       220,000    2S0,000       144,000      394,000
and Air Cood.                                        _
Blectrical      75,000       108,000       183,000    200,000     64,100        264,800
Installation
Carpentry and    75,000      120,000       195.000    200,000      180,000      380,000
Joinery
Block and       25,000       45,000       70,000      100,000     90,000        190,000
Cannting                 _        _       .______
Dreuawking      7S,000       60,000        135,000    300,000     109,000       408,000
In Tailorn__
Table B.: Optional Higher Cost Items (amount in C)
Apprentic              Mastcri
100,000               500,000
Refrigeration and Air Cond.
75,000                400,000
Electrical Installation
75,000                400,000
Carpentry and Jolnery           _
25,000                200,000
Block and Cementing
75,000                600,000
Dresmaking and Tailoring



- 71 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR PROJECT
ProDosed Equipment Kit Content for Agmrentices and Masters
and Optional Items
1         CARPENTRY AND JOINERY
1.1       Apprentices
1.1.1      Standard List
Tape Measure                          16,000.00
Handsaw with Blades                   30,000.00
Oilstone                              15,000.00
Folding Rule                          15,000.00
Nail Punch (set)                      15,000.00
Rebate Plane (set)                    50,000.00
Try Square                            15,000.00
Chisel (set)                          30,000.00
Plumb Line                             6,000.00
192,000.00
1.1.2     Optional Tools
Tenon Saw                             25,000.00
Claw Hammer                           20,000.00
Frames Square                         25,000.00
Jack Plane (set)                      50,000.00
Smooth Plane (set)                    50,000.00
Brace and Bits                        50,000.00
Portable Spray Gun                    80,000.00
300,000.00
1.2       Mastercraftsmen
1.21      Standard Kit
Rebate Plane (set)                    50,000.00
Smooth Plane (set)                    50,000.00
Jack Plane (set)                      50,000.00
Claw Hammer                           20,000.00
Chisel (set)                          30,000.00
Brace and Bits                        50,000.00
Portable Spray Gun                    80,000.00
Portable Drill                        30,000.00
Clamps                                20,000.00
380,000.00
1.2.2     Optional Tools
Portable Circular Saw                260,000.00
Portable Router                      240,000.00
Portable Orbital Sander              280,000.00
Portable Belt Sander                 275,000.00
Portable Jig Saw                     240,000.00
1,295,000.00



- 72 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 2 of 4
2         DRESSMAKING AND TAILORING
2.1       Apprentices
2.2.1     Standard Kit
Sewing Maching (hand)                50,000.00
Tracing Wheel                         2,000.00
Electric Iron                        10,000.00
Ironing Board                        10,000.00
Cutting out Scissors                 10,000.00
Pinking Shears                       10,000.00
Trimming Scissors                     2,000.00
Tape Measure                          4,000.00
Thimble                               2,000.00
Button Hole Punch                    30,000.00
Needles                               5,000.00
135,000.00
2.2       Mastercraftsmen
2.21      Standard Kit
Knitting Machine                    250,000.00
Button Cover Machine                125,000.00
375,000.00
2.2.2     Optional Tools
Overlook Machine                    380,000.00
3         REFRIGERATION AND AIRCONDITIONING
3.1       Apprentices
3.1.1     Standard Kit
Tube Cutter                          25,000.00
Flaring Tool                         35,000.00
Tube Bender                          35,000.00
Dial Thermometer                     20,000.00
Spanner (set)                        30,000.00
Nut Driver (set)                     40,000.00
Tin Snipes                           25,000.00
Voltage Tester                       10,000.00
220,000.00
3.1.2     Optional Tools
Pop Rivet Gun                        50,000.00
Brazing Torch                        30,000.00
Tape Measure                         16,000.00
96,000.00
3.2       Mastercraftsmen
3.21      Standard Kit
Pop Rivet Gun                        50,000.00
Tube Cutter                          25,000.00
Flaring Tool                         35,000.00
Tube Bender                          35,000.00
Spanner (set)                        30,000.00



- 73 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 3 of 4
Nut Driver (set)                      40,000.00
Tin Snipes                           25,000.00
Brazing Torch                        30,000.00
Service Manifold                    125,000.00
395,000.00
3.2.2     Optional Tools
Gas Welding Equipment               500,000.00
Refrigeration Gas Repair Kit        160,000.00
Refrigeration Service Socket        200,000.00
Blue Bottle                         200,000.00
Air Compressor                      450,000.00
1,510,000.00
4         ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION
4.1       Apprentices
4.1.1     Standard Kit
Hacksaw and Blade                    30,000.00
Cold Chisel                           15,000.00
Screw Driver (set)                   25,000.00
Neon Tester                            5,000.00
Side Cutter                          10,000.00
Long Nose Plier                      20,000.00
Combination Plier                    20,000.00
Ballpein Hammer                      20,000.00
Gimlet                                10,000.00
Soldering Iron                       25,000.00
180,000.00
4.1.2     Optional Tools
Tube Cutter                          25,000.00
Blow Lamp                            25,000.00
Smouldering Iron (65m)               25,000.00
Rawl Plug (set)                      20,000.00
Avometer                              75,000.00
Polarity Tester                      75,000.00
Insulation Tester                    75,000.00
Twist Drill (set)                    50,000.00
370,000.00
4.2       Mastercraftsmen
4.2.1     Standard Kit
Pipe Bender (manual)                100,000.00
Extension Ladder                    100,000.00
Twist Drill (set)                    50,000.00
Side Cutter                           10,000.00
Neon Tester                            5,000.00
265,000.00
4.2.2     Optional Tools
Hand Drill (Electric)               100,000.00
Insulation Tester                    75,000.00



- 74 -
ANNEX 4-8
Page 4 of 4
Polarity Tester                      75,000.00
Avometer                             75,000.00
Megger Tester                      500,000.00
Digital Multi-Tester                100,000.00
Clamp Multi-Tester                  100,000.00
1,025,000.00
5         BLOCKMAKING AND CONCRETING
5.1       Apprentices
5.1.1     Standard Kits
Builders Square                       6,000.00
Claw Hammer                          15,000.00
Brick Hammer                         20,000.00
Brick Trowel                          8,000.00
Float                                 5,000.00
Steel Tape                           10,000.00
Plugging Chisel                       6,000.00
70,000.00
5.1.2     Optional Tools
Wire Cutter                          25,000.00
Bricklayers' Line Pins               20,000.00
Pointing Trowel                      10,000,00
Sledge Hammer                        20,000.00
Pickaxe                               6,000.00
Shovel                                6,000.00
Spade                                 6,000.00
93,000.00
5.2       Mastercraftsmen
5.2.1     Standard Kit
Builders' Square                      8,000.00
Brick Hammer                         20,000.00
Pickaxe                               6,000.00
Shovel                                6,000.00
Spade                                 6,000.00
Plugging Chisel                       6,000.00
Brick Trowel                         10,000.00
Pointing Trowel                      10,000.00
Float                                 5,000.00
Bricklayers' Line Pins              20,000.00
Plumb Bulb                            6,000.00
Steel Tape                           10,000.00
Wheelbarrow                          35,000.00
Builder's Sieve                     45,000.00
193,000.00
5.2.2     Optional Tools
Water Tank                         100,000.00
Steel Block Mould                  100,000.00
200,000.00



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS)
LocaL
The Government             IDA               TRAINEES                 Total            For.     (ExcL.   Duties &
Amount       %       Amount        %      Amount        %       Amount        %         Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. RehabiLitation                                  95,196.4       10.0 856,767.3       90.0                     - 951,963.6          7.7 380,785.5 543,931.7  27,246.5
2. Extension                                        8,896.8       10.0  80,071.2        90.0          -         -   88968.0          0.7  35,587.2  48,932.    4.448.4
Subtotal Civil Works                                  104,093.2       10.0 936,838.5       90.0          -         -  1,040,932         8.4 416,372.7 592,864.1  31,694.9
B. Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture
1. Workshops Equipment                                     -         - 854,568.8       100.0         -          - 854,568.8          6.9 854,568.8           -         -
2. Office Equipment                                 17,068.4      10.0 153,615.7       90.0          -          -  170,684.1         1.4 102,410.5  51,205.2  17,068.4
3. Tool Kits for Trainees                         612,664.9       10.0 3,908,512        63.8 1,605,473       26.2  6,126,649        49.5 4,901,319 612,664.9 612,664.9
4. VehicLes                                                -          - 254515.6       100.0          -         -  254,5156          2.1 254,515.6           -          -
Subtotal Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture            629,733.3       8.5 5,171,212        69.8 1,605,473       21.7  7,406,418        59 .8 6,112,814 663,870.1 629,733.3
C. Training and Materials
1. Training Fees for Trainees (Apprentices)       122,487.8       11.0 768,963.5       69.2 219,634.2        19.8  1,111,085         9.0          - 1,111,085          -
2. Training of Mastercraftsmen/Women               27,148.7        3.7 677,580.6        92.6  26,823.6        3.7  731,552.9         5.9          - 731,552.9          -
3. Staff Training                                          -          - 420,405.9      100.0          -         -  420,405.9         3.4          - 420405.9-
SubtotaL Training and Materials                       149,636.5       6.6 1,866,950        82.5 246,457.8       10.9  2,263,044         18.3         - 2,263,044
D. Field AlLowances                                           -          -  79,071.8      100.0          -         -   79,071.8          0.6         -  79,071.8           -
E. Honorarium                                                 -          -  57,795.7      100.0          -         -   57,795.7          0.5          - 57,795.7           -
F. Technical Assistance, Studies and Surveys
1. Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                       -         - 421,976.0      100.0          -          -  421,976.0         3.4          - 421,976.0          -
SaLary of Contract Staff                                -         -  30,377.0      100.0          -          -   30,377.0         0.2          - 30,377.0           -
Foreign ConsuLtants                                     -         - 146,806.2      100.0          -          -  146806.2          1.2  46,717.2 100,089.0           -
Subtotal TechnicaL Assistance                              -          - 599,159.2      100.0          -         - 599,159.2          4.8  46,717.2 552,442.1
2. Studies and Surveys                                     -          - 121407.4       100.0          -         -  121,407.4         1.0          - 121,407.4  -_I
Subtotal TechnicaL Assistance, Studies and Surveys            -          - 720566.7       100.0          -         -  720,566.           5.86       .2 673849.5            -
TotaL Investment Costs                                    883,463.0        7.6 8,832,434       76.4 1,851,930        16.0 11,567,828        93.4 6,575,904 4,330,495 661,428.2
11. Recurrent Costs
A. IncrementaL Recurrent Costs
1. Vehicles Maintenance and Operating Costs        29,286.0       10.0 263,574.1       90.0          -          -  292,860.1         2.4          - 292,860.1           -
2. Equipment Maintenance and Operating Costs        10,749.6      10.0  96,746.0        90.0          -         -  107,495.6         0.9          - 107,495.6          -
3. Office SuppLies                                  11,669.0      10.0 105,021.3        90.0          -         -  116,690.3         0.9          - 116,690.3           -
4. Distribution of Tool Kits                        29,888.5      10.0 268.996.4        90.0          -         -    8884.9          2.4          - 298884.-
TotaL Recurrent Costs                                      81,593.1       10.0 734,337.8       90.0          -          -  815930.9          6.6          - 815930.9           -
TotaL Disbursement                                         965,056.1        7.8 9,566,772       77.3 1,851,930        15.0 12,383,758       100.0 6,575,904 5,146,426 661,428.2
Fri Feb 17 16:12:24 1995
OQ z
(D X
01
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Financiers



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Surmary
%     % Total
(Cedis)                                    (USS)                Foreign    Base
Local          Foreign          Total         Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange  Costs
A. PROVISION OF TRAINING
1. PROVISION OF TRAINING FOR APPRENTICES                                      2,189,178,000  3,618,140,000  5,807,318,000  2,189,178  3,618,140  5,807,318              62       55
2. PROVISION OF TRAINING FOR MASTERCRAFTSMEN/WOMEN                            1,023.404,000  1,483.616,000  2,507,020,000  1.023,404  1,483.616  2.507,020              59       24
Subtotal PROVISION OF TRAINING                                                   3,212,582,000  5,101,756,000  8,314,338,000  3,212,582  5,101,756  8,314,338              61        78
B. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1. TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION (NACVET)                                            577,010,000    234,760,000    811,770,000  577,010.0  234,760.0  811,770.0              29        8
2. STRENGTHENING OF PLANNING, BUDGETING, MONITORING & EVALUATION (PBME)    251,690,000           63,200,000    314,890,000  251,690.0   63,200.0  314,890.0             20        3
3. PROJECTS MANAGEMENT UNIT                                                     489,905.000       78,200,000    568,105,000  489,905.0   78,200.0  568,105.0            14         5
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK                                                  1,318,605,000    376,160,000  1,694,765,000  1,318,605  376,160.0  1,694,765             22        16
C. LABOR FORCE DATA BASE                                                            466,780,000    131,780.000    598,560.000  466,780.0  131,780.0  598,560.0             22         6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                               4,997,967,000  5,609,696,000 10,607,663,000  4,997,967  5,609,696 10,607,663             53       100
Physical Contingencies                                                             410,471,950    556,569,600    967,041,550  410,472.0  556,569.6  967,041.5             58         9
Price Contingencies                                                              1,388,752,360  1,448,463,092  2,837.215,451  399.415.6  409,638.3  809.053.9             51         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                               6,797,191,310  7,614,728,692 14,411,920,001  5,807,855  6,575,904 12,383,758              53       117
Wed Jan 18 13:29:53 1995
01'
41
I-   \



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
%     X Total
(Cedis)                                  (USS)                Foreign    Base
Local         Foreign          Total        Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Rehabilitation                                   510,000,000    340,000,000    850,000,000  510,000.0  340,000.0  850,000.0           40        8
2. Extension                                          48.000.000     32000.000      80.000.000   48,000.0   32,000.0  80 000.0          40         1
Subtotal Civil Works                                    558,000,000    372,000,000    930,000,000  558,000.0  372,000.0  930,000.0          40         9
B. Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture
1. Workshops Equipment                                         -   768,428,000    768,428,000             -  768,428.0  768,428.0       100        7
2. Office Equipment                                   60,960,000     91,440,000    152,400,000   60,960.0   91,440.0  152,400.0          60         1
3. Tool Kits for Trainees                          1,026,332,000  4,105,328,000  5,131,660,000  1,026,332  4,105,328  5,131,660          80       48
4. Vehictes                                                    -    228.500.000    228.500.000            -  228,500.0  228.500.0       100         2
Subtotal Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture            1,087,292,000  5,193,696,000  6,280,988,000  1,087,292  5,193,696  6,280,988          83        59
C. Training and Materiats
1. Training Fees for Trainees (Apprentices)         924,000,000                -    924,000,000  924,000.0           - 924,000.0          -        9
2. Training of Mastercraftsmen/Women                 607,500,000               -    607,500,000  607,500.0              607,500.0         -         6
3. Staff Training                                    363.450.000               -    363.450.000  363450.0            -  363450.0          -         3
Subtotal Training and Materials                       1,894,950,000               -  1,894,950,000  1,894,950           -  1,894,950         -        18
D. Field Allowances                                      69,555,000               -     69,555,000   69,555.0            -  69,555.0         -         1
E. Honorarium                                            53,670,000               -     53,670,000   53,670.0                53,670.0        -         1
F. Technical Assistance, Studies and Surveys
1. Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                396,900,000                -    396,900,000  396,900.0           - 396,900.0          -        4
Salary of Contract Staff                           28,200,000               -     28,200,000   28,200.0           -   28,200.0                   -
Foreign Consultants                               99.000,000      44,000.000    143.000.000   99.000.0   44.000.0  143.000.0          31         1
Subtotal Technical Assistance                        524,100,000     44,000,000    568,100,000  524,100.0   44,000.0  568,100.0           8         5
2. Studies and Surveys                               106.000.000               -    106.000,000  106 000.0            -  106 000.0        -         1
Subtotal TechnicaL Assistance, Studies and Surveys    630.100,000       44,000,000    674.100,000  630 100.0   44,000.0  674.100.0           7         6
Total Investment Costs                                    4,293,567,000  5,609,696,000  9,903,263,000  4,293,567  5,609,696  9,903,263          57        93
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Recurrent Costs
1. Vehicles Maintenance and Operating Costs          257,600,000               -    257,600,000  257,600.0           - 257,600.0          -         2
2. Equipment Maintenance and Operating Costs          94,800,000               -     94,800,000   94,800.0           -  94,800.0          -         1
3. Office Supplies                                   103,000,000               -    103,000,000  103,000.0            -  103,000.0        -         1
4. Distribution of Tool Kits                         249.000,000               -    249.000.000  249000.0             -   49,000.0         -        2
Total Recurrent Costs                                       704.400.000               -    704.400,000  704,400.0            -  704,400.0         -        7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       4,997,967,000  5,609,696,000 10,607,663,000  4,997,967  5,609,696 10,607,663           53      100
Physical Contingencies                                     410,471,950    556,569,600    967,041,550  410,472.0  556,569.6  967,041.6          58         9
Price Contingencies                                      1,388.752.360  1,448,463.092  2.837,215,451  399,415.6  409638.3  809.053.            51         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        6,797,191,310  7,614,728,692 14,411,920,001  5,807,855  6,575,904 12,383,758           53      117
Wed Jan 18 13:30:03 1995
co
41
a  I
w- %
41



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS)
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
STRENGTHENING
OF PLANNING,
PROVISION OF TRAINING                                BUDGETING,
PROVISION OF           PROVISION OF          TECHNICAL      MONITORING &      PROJECTS       LABOR
TRAINING FOR           TRAINING FOR        IMPLEMENTATION   EVALUATION       MANAGEMENT      FORCE
APPRENTICES       MASTERCRAFTSMEN/WOMEN      (NACVET)         (PBME)           UNIT       DATA BASE   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Rehabilitation                                               544,929.0                       -       338,972.9                -               -  68,061.7  951,963.6
2. Extension                                                     88.968.0                                        -                               -          - 88968.0
Subtotal Civil Works                                               633,897.0                        -      338,972.9                -               -  68,061.7  1,040,932
B. Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture
1. Workshops Equipment                                          854,568.8                       -                -               -               -          -  854,568.8
2. Office Equipment                                                      -                      -        33,895.2        24,466.2        24,689.2  87,633.5  170,684.1
3. Tool Kits for Trainees                                       3,938,316               2,188,334                -               -               -          -  6,126,649
4. Vehicles                                       -__                                           -        58.941.3        55.605.0        72.687.2  67 282.0  254,515.6
Subtotal Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture                         4,792,884               2,188,334        92,836.5        80,071.2        97,376.4 154,915.5  7,406,418
C. Training and Materials
1. Training Fees for Trainees (Apprentices)                     1,111,085                       -                -               -               -          -  1,111,085
2. Training of Mastercraftsmien/Women                                    -              731,552.9                -               -               -          -  731,552.9
3. Staff Training                                                72.136.7                        -      158.681.7        42.509.7        61.663.4  85.414.3  420.405.9
Subtotal Training and Materials                                    1,183,222               731,552.9       158,681.7        42,509.7         61,663.4  85,414.3  2,263,044
D. Field Allowances                                                         -                               41,120.9         15,808.2        11,233.0  10,909.7   79,071.8
E. Honorarium                                                                                       -       43,764.4        14,031.3                -          -   57,795.7
F. Technical Assistance, Studies and Surveys
1. Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                                                                     53,587.0        76,827.0       219,546.2  72,015.8  421,976.0
Salary of Contract Staff                                                                     -                -               -       23,237.7   7,139.3   30,377.0
Foreign Consultants                                                   -                      -        46.717.2        33.363.0                -  66 726.0  146.806.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                    -      100,304.2       110,190.0       242,783.9 145,881.1  599,159.2
2. Studies and Surveys                                                   -                       -               -               -       64.246.2  57,161.2  121.407.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance, Studies and Surveys                          -                       -       100.304.2       110.190.0       307.030.1 203,042.4  720.566.
Total Investment Costs                                                  6,610,004              2,919,886        775,680.7       262,610.3       477,303.0 522,343.6 11,567,828
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Recurrent Costs
1. Vehicles Maintenance and Operating Costs                                                      -       66,535.6        57,161.2        94,853.8  74,309.6  292,860.1
2. Equipment Maintenance and Operating Costs                                                     -       33,888.4         13,637.0        20,333.0  39,637.2  107,495.6
3. Office Supplies                                                                               -       33,888.4         13,555.3        40,666.0  28,580.6  116,690.3
4. Distribution of Tool Kits                                    245.304.6                53.580.3                -               -               -          -  298.884.
Total Recurrent Costs                                                   245.304.6                53.580.3       134,312.3        84,353.6       155.852.8 14815930.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      6,855,308               2,973,467       909,992.9       346,963.9       633,155.8 664,871.0 12,383, 758
Taxes                                                                  425,526.4              218,833.4         20,338.2         2,446.6         2,468.9  12,166.4  681,779.9
Foreign Exchange                                                       4,258,780              1,750,667        261,584.8        70,284.7        87,500.7 147,086.8  6,575,904
Wed Jan 18 13:30:50 1995
01



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Narrativo Statemont        - Objectvely Venfiable Indicators                    Means d Venfication                Assumptions
F'ROJECT OBJECTrVES
1. To improve the capacity of private and    1 Existence of training programnes in     Monitoring Reports         1. lnstitLuions wiN remain committed to the
public training institutions to run short  the seleced training institutions                                      programrmes
competency-bored training prograrnres                                                Field visits
2 Well-run andwell-patronised short                                          MOE issues policy on TVET reonentation
courses in the training insttutiofs                                        being implenented
MOE Polcy on Peorien  on of   Trade Assocaionswillcontinueto show
TVET toNards short competenc   nteres in the programme
based programmes
2. To improve the level of technical/  1. Improved product quality                   1 Inforrmal s9ctor market survey  1 The right type of equpnnent and toolswvilI
entreprneurneL skits of nmslercraftsmen                                                                            be used
and apprentices in the IS               Divertfcation of prcudct types               ExhibitionslFars
on the market                                                              Good qLaity baining materils wil be used
3. To help create new businesses and improwe 1 Number of new busnessse created        1 Tracer Studies             1. Effective monitoring and tracoer studes
existing micro and sranl inorrrial sector  by beneficianes of trainees                                             wil be done
enterprises                                                                         2. Monitoring Reports
I Icrea sng returns on investment to                                       Mastercraftsrnen will be wilting to dierlose
Mastercratarren                            3. Supervsion Missins           financial returns
4. Firancil Peports of MSEs
4. To improve the teaching or practical sklos  1 Teachers attending orientation and   1. Review of records of orientabot 1. Teacherawil b ewiling to teach practical Skils
in the Technical & Voca tor-rt Institutions  upgrading programrres orgrnised          courses                      in which they have competnce
under this Project
2. Monhoring Reports          . Curricukum ofbred Iapproprkb for leaching
Improved qualfty of teaching of                                            pracbcal skills
practcal skills                             3. Products o tainees and
mastercraftsn|n|
0t 1
W



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROJECT GOALS
Narraiw Stalvrtement         Obgecbvivy Venfhable Iricators                      eans d Vnlicaton                   Asmjrrntho__
PROJECT GOALS
1. To prcmcte the dopyner  of the winormal 1 Gradal growh d the informral              Moritoring Reports            The gorrrnnet wgl tormnaLt pdcis
sector Ihrough tr ining                 coriribution to national dowelopmnent                                      that will f obr the grwth d the
2 Mid-Term Proecd Evwlustion    inoransl sectrr
2. hnped emporrenl sector  Iswith                                          2. Gownmsnt wil rerrain corenitted to
better emplyment pos  and                  3. Proqect Caorwtion Peport    reoarenlng technical tIining toArds a
mnagasd arnings through                                                   comstncy - brd and darnsnd drlwn ni
- imrowwd product qualily                  . Tracer Studies
and "                                                                                                                         I
- imrproed e9taepmneurship skils                                                                                              o
2. To provrd an enabling *envrorimnt for  1 . LwIs of go-mrmrn firnchI                 AnalysI of gawrnnurt budget
enlonrrent creaton and incrome geneatio  for inforrrel sector traiing and           and other statemens
Inhth microndrsdrallonrpies sector      job a.A4ornacUllas
2. Overall nprtongt in efriancy
prdirability sad productiMty of
MSE opraorm
Cl
i  D
0 Pt



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROJECT OUTPUTS
Narrative Summary                          Implementation Schedule                        Means of Verification                       Assumptions
TRAINING ACTIVITIES
Enrollment
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6   Total
A. Apprentices:
Electrical Installation          -        340    1020    1020    1020         680   4080  1. Training records in        1. A class size of 20 apprentices per trade area
Refrigeration and Air Cond.      -        260      780      780      780       520    3120       selected institutions.   is maintained.
Carpentry and Joinery            -        360    1080    1080    1080          720   4320
Dressmaking and Tailoring        -        400    1200    1200    1200         800   4800  2. Supervision mission        2. Three training cycles per year are conducted in each
Blockmaking and Masonry          -        340    1020    1020    1020          680   4080         reports.                trade area, except in year 2.
Total                            -       1700    5100    5100   5100    3400  20400
3. Training is conducted in accordance with the
B. Mastercraftsmen & women:                                                                                               specified time.
Electrical Installation          -        200      200      200      200       100      900
Refrigeration and Air Cond.      -        170      170       170      120       70      700                             4. Both technical and managerial courses will be
Carpentry and Joinery            -        210      210      210      210       110      950                                mounted for Master Craftsmen.
Dressmaking and Tailoring        -        230      230      230      230       130    1050
Blockmaking and Masonry          -        200      200      200      200       100      900
Total                            -       1010    1010    1010        960       510   4500
C. Instructor training:
Electrical Installation           68      -          34     -        -        -         102 1. Training data from Kumasi 1. An orientation course of 3 weeks duration will be
Refrigeration and Air Cond.       52      -          26     -        -        -          78    Advanced Technical         organized for instructors.
Carpentry and Joinery             64      -          44     -        -        -         108    Teachers Center.
Dressmaking and Tailoring         80      -          40     -        -        -         120 2. Training evaluation reports. 2. An upgrading course will be run for one-half of
Blockmaking and Masonry           68      -          34     -        -        -         102                               instructors in the 3rd year of proect.
Total                            332      -        178      -        -        -         510 3. Monitoring reports.
GRANDTOTAL(A+B+C)    664  2710  6110  6110  6060  3910 25564                                                                                                               a 
Ln
o  l
0h



- 82 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Evaluation Criteria
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
The table in this annex describes regular supervision. In addition, specific tasks such
as the review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual plans, audits, procurement and
disbursement actions, correspondence, etc. are estimated to require 12 staffweeks during the first year
and 8 staffweeks of various specialists per subsequent year. The supervision of each component,
including the review of procurement decisions and of progress reports, will be carried out by the task
manager and procurement specialist under the responsibility of AF4PH.
2.     Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Semi-annual Progress reports would be submitted [dates to be filled in] of each project
year by the Projects Management Unit of the Ministry of Education. They would
include a summary of implementation under each project component, financial
statements on project expenditures, updated project implementation and records of
contract advertising, bidding, and awards with indications of methods of procurement.
(b)    An implementation review workshop, convened by the Director General, PMU/MOE,
with the participation of the various technical units (NACVET, PBME, MESW,
public and private institutions, Trade Associations), including IDA, will be held
annually of each project year. The workshop would be based on: (i) the progress in
project implementation which for the purpose of the annual review, would also
include an annual work program and estimated budget for the next period; (ii) the
status of performance indicators; and (iii) will update the Implementation Manual to
reflect status of project implementation.
(c)    A joint Government/IDA mid-term review will be carried out at an appropriate time
between July and December 1997 to (i) assess overall progress made in implementing
project development and performance objectives; (ii) assess the effectiveness of the
implementing agencies and other key players (see para. 2 (b) above) in executing the
physical and technical implementation of the project; (iii) verify the continued validity
of the project design and assumptions in the light of implementation experience and
response to the training programs (demand-driven training programs); and (iv) decide
and commit to necessary adjustments in project objectives, design or performance.
This interim evaluation of the project will also decide on the quantity and nature of
the inputs that remain to be financed under the project. The Government will
prepare, two months ahead of time, a report required for a comprehensive mid-term
review.
(d)    The Director General of the PMUIMOE, in collaboration with the NACVET
executive director, will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision



- 83 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 2
missions and participating in the mission with them. Each mission will consist of a
briefing and a wrap-up meetings hosted by the Minister of Education that will include
heads of the project implementing agencies, and other relevant services.
(e)    Imlplementation Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing date, an
evaluation report on the project prepared in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, would be transmitted to IDA.



- 84 -
REPUIBLIC OF GHANA                                                ANNEX 5-3
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                            Page 1 of 2
Procurement and Disbursement Schedules
Procurement Implementation Schedule/
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
Project Year
Pre-      --------------------------            -     -    -    -      Total
Project Element           Project    FY96       FY97      FY98     FY99      FY00   FY01        Payment      Remarks
- ------ -(US5$ Million Equivalent)---------
Credit Timing
Sign/Effec/Close*  1***
1.  Works
Prequal/Bid/Award                 xxxxxx    xxxxxx
1.1 Rehabilitation                                  0.756    0.285                                             1.041         LCB
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Subtotal 1                           0.756    0.285                                             1.041
2.  Goods
2.1 Workshops Equipment for                         0.855                                                       0.855        ICB
Training Institutions                        xxxxxxxnx
2.2 Office Equipment and Furniture                  0.133    0.031    0.004    0.003                            0.171        LCB
xXxxxx)uucxxxxxxxxxXxxx)uaxxxxxxxxxxx
2.3 Tool Kits for Trainees                                    1.114    1.403    1.357    1.367    0.884    6.125             ICB
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxJcxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx,o*xxxnxxxx
2.4 Vehicles, Motorcycles                           0.237    0.017                                              0.254       ICE/
and Bicycles                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                                                   Local Shopping
Subtotal 2                           1.225    1.162    1.407        1.36    1.367    0.884    7.405
3.  Consultancies
3.1 Project Supervision and
Implementation and
Monitoring support                              0.207    0.106    0.072    0.097    0.059    0.058    0.599            Other
xxxx,xxxxxxxxxxCxxxxXxxxxx,oxxxxxnxxxxxxxxxx,oooocjooooa
3.2 Institutional Development                       0.006    0.012    0.035    0.012    0.019    0.037    0.121            Other
,ucxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxnxxxx,ocxxx,ouax
Subtotal 3                           0.213    0 118    0.107    0.109    0.078    0.095    0.720
4. Training
4.1 Local Training/Workshops                        0.142    0.209    0.543    0.458    0.511    0.379    2.242            Other
xxxxxx)xxxxxxxXucxxxxx,uuxxx,ucxxxxxxxxnxx,ucxxxxxxxxxxxx
4.2 Training Abroad                                  0.00    0.014    0.007                                     0.021      Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx,xxxxxxxx,axxxx,cxxx,uoooo
Subtotal 4                           0.142    0.223    0.550    0.458    0.511    0.379    2.263
5.  Miscellaneous
5.1 Field Allowances                                0.008    0.012    0.014    0.015    0.015    0.015    0.060            Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx,oxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5.2 Honorarium                                      0.008    0.010    0.010    0.009    0.010    0.010    0.057            Other
x~xxnuucxxxxxxx,uxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxjooooXXcxxnooouonc
Subtotal 5                           0.016    0.022    0.024    0.024    0.025    0.025    0.137                 0.000
6.  Incremental Recurrent CoSts                     0.038    0.126    0.167    0.172    0.175    0.138    0.816             Local
------------------------xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxucxxxxxx~xxxxaxxx)x,ouooooooox                           Shopping
Subtotal 6                           0.038    0.126    0.167    0.172    0.175    0.138    0.816
TOTAL                             2 .3 90    1.936    2 .2 55    2 .12 3    2 .156    1.521   12 .3 84
IDA-financing                         (2.4)    (1.8)    (2.0)    (1.3)    (1.2)    (0.9)    (9.6)
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
a:procvoc (rk-5)



_ _ b_ _ __WA                     Fro m
CA FcM                                                                SectoA
IDA                                                                   sor
Yewa NW           eV Semese       CamuiutI              Plejmc         p.u0
_ MS N              S     d       (Us tMOIV%
19e6       1           1.2             1.2              12.5%            0.0%
2          1.2              2.4             25.0%             6.0%                    10
1997       1           0.9             3.3              34.4%           10.0%                      8-                                                    4
2          0.9              4.2             43.8%            14.0%                 EX
1996       1           1.0             5.2             54.2%            22.0%                      6
2          1.0              6.2             64.6%            30.0%                 1
19"        1           0.7             6.9              71.9%           38.0%                      4
2          0.6              7.5             78.1%            58.0%                      2
2000       1           0.6             6.1              94.4%           50.0%
2          0.6              8.7             90.6%            66.0%                      0
X       r-.               0        0a_ 
2001       1           0.5             9.2              95.8%           74.0%                                CD       0        00       0                8 Q      Q
2          0.4              9.6             100.0%           86.0%                                _
2002       1                                                            90.0%                                                       Fiscal Yews
2                                                            94.0%
2003       1                                                            98.0%                       |                   Project Profile -4-Regional Profile
2                                                           100.0%
a:.b.ix jrk5)
0Q Z
X A
0h 1



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of the Physical Infrastructure Component
(Month/Year)
A. Civil Works (LCB)
Bank's
Draft               Bidding                            Response      Contract
Bidding             Documents         Bid              on Eval.       Awards         Contract       Rehabilitation   Rehabilitation
_Typ-e -of                  _______ itie-s--   Documents    Completed         Openinq          Report         Completed    Siqned           Started             Completed
Apr. Est.        Mar.  95           Apr.  95          Jun.  95       Aug.  95        Aug.  95       Oct. 95           Nov.  95            Apr. 96
Rehabilitation             -------  ---  -------------------------------  -----------------  -------------------------------------- --  --------------------------------------
of Training
Institutions               Actual
Apr. Est.        Jun.  95            Jul.  95        Sept.  95        Nov.  95       Dec.  95       Jan. 96           Mar.  96            Oct.  96
Office Block for
NACVET                     Actual                                                                                                                                                     X
Rehabilitation of          Apr. Est.         Mar.  95           Apr.  95         Jun.  95        Aug.  95       Aug.  95       Oct. 95           Nov. 95              Jan.  96
Employment                 --- -- --  - -- -- -- --- --  -- __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ t _ __ _ _ _ _ ---------------- -- ------------ ----- ------------------ ----------------- ------------------ -----------------
Information
Bureau (EIB)               Actual
Rehabilitation of          Apr. Est.         Aug. 95            Sept. 95         Nov. 95         Jan. 96        Jan. 96        Feb. 96           Mar. 96              May 96
Five   Central   Pre-     --     -----        ---       -  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
liminary and
Processing Centers         Actual
a: a6 (ja9O-b)                                  18-Nov-94
oQz
Ln
0 l
F" 41



Implementation Schedule of the Physical Infrastructure Component
(Month/Year)
B. Goods
o    '"'"""""'"""""''''""""''''-'"..                               ..   ..   ......... '"'
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ....'''  ''                      .....-SL    .
-T-Y-   f:  Dd-: t:                                                      C    I: : .                                           - .
Workshops                           Apr. Est.               Mar. 95                   Apr. 95                 Jun. 95              Oct. 95              Nov. 95             Dec. 95                   Mar. 96
Equipment for-                                  ------------
Training
Institutions (ICB)                  Actual
Apr. Est.               May. 95                   'Jun. 95                Jul. 95              Aug. 95             Sept. 95             Oct. 95                   Dec. 95
.-- - --------   -----------------------   --------------------   -------------------   -----------------   -----------------   -----------------   --------------------------
Office
Equipment  (LCB)   Actual
(first batch)                                      Apr. 95                  May. 95                  Jul. 95             Sept. 95              Oct. 95             Nov. 95   Starting 03/1996
Apr. Est.                                                                                                                                                Ending  11/2000
Tool Kits for
Trainees a/ (ICB)                   Actual
Apr. Est.                                         Dec. 94                 Jan. 95              May 95               Jun. 95              Jul. 95                  Sept. 95
Vehicles    (ICB)                   Actual                  Nov. 94              _
>
P z
a/ This procurement will be repeated annually over a four-year period.
: g
a: goods (ja90-b)                                              03-Mar-95



- 88 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1.    Government of Ghana Proposal for a Vocational and Informal Sector Support Project-
August 1994
2.     List of Equipment Available in Participatory Institutions and their Status by selected
Trades
3.     Fully Elaborated and Costed Labor Force Database System Proposal
4.     Draft Law Establishing NACVET
5.     Report on Seminar With Beneficiaries
6.     Report on the Pilot Program for the Training of Post JSS Apprentices in Technical
and Vocational Courses for self employment
7.    Skill Acquisition and work in Micro Enterprises - Recent Evidence from West Africa
8.    Development Policies and Institutional Environment for Employment Promotion in the
Informal Sector in Ghana, JASPA, ILO
9.     Strategies for Achieving Economic Growth through Micro and small Enterprise
Development in Ghana, MESW
10.   Government of Ghana. Survey of the Existing Physical Infrastructure of Selected
Vocational and Technical Institutes of (a) Southern Sector and (b) Northern Sector
11.   Republic of Ghana. Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support Project. Project
Implementation Manual
a:doc (ja9O-b)



MAP SECTION






IBRD 2674
'BU RKI NA FASO                                                                               aGHN
' B U R K I N A F A S O                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~J . k                G H A N A
r   - n  TNovrongo  'IOn)g7e  e  o~  *) VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND
PriU P E R  A sJ    INFORMAL SECTOR SUPPORT
BOLGATANGA                                PROJECT
UP P E R                Sondel,o                             - -                          o.O      A
\o om                W  E ST                           W aleyr->,,-  1      Gorbg      N   .....  -r1        O.KP /
Vit   Nodowls  ,.  ;
t    .WA                    S                                                                          l /   j,_ 1 -A  '
_-     (    -   \o q                                                            )Gush                                          A
\   _ ,o                                       \                <' N !e Rt!t?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  ,,,    ,
Nyoskpo
!                                  ~~~~          ~         ~         ~~~~~To on -Yetl a   j
AMALE
a                                                                        \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Zoo,l F
NORTHERN
9_  IBole                 Dnog                     
B,,,r   o a
COTE   \ \                                                                        o                                        TOGO
(   /                     5009  
D'IVOIRE      
BRONG-AHAFO
h      , j                     it n~~~~~~Kto,po /'                                           
Kete
K.nosae Donis     R    Koroch,
Wench             ~>    Ate0b,b                                             i/
Be,ek-n          r         ,       -                                                                   11
)Do mod    SUNYANI                                                ASHANTI
Ah,nnkro                  ochern      \                 Soro                                                   Lion
K  -a5| Agono M pongD4
Kenyosv Tepo        Offso            Effduse' Kpod
n    >    Moneronso-<    E 3    Kno                                        ;         /
* ->        r                KUMAS               qosorosej  ponso                                        * HO
L-..    yBIb                 K,-tem-se -          nocY                                   >      V  0 L T
obeso                         N,monto      f Bekwo         (Neo,- )              Beg        dnE A S T E Rdn
,    Juobeso           vt7   ~~~~~~Obuos /A New,                                    3  Od,,ls, ;tnle   
OVoorsK /de                                                        K bo         2  ,oo           Ad dorno    f r,
Neir          KaNe w    ( Sonnr?0 KOFOR DUA SO                                -D
D Dunkwo ,9__   Edg>os       A   - O                 AAlopong  ./5                 *.
; on Ofn\io      5                  \                 Akizzl     Oda !              )Nsowo,nl   / 0 wk  ,  Keto
CENTRAL                  Aso-onLe-e                                     A
E-h  A,~~~,k,o~~g~~o                 Fos~-                           -,NgoAdo
Enon         AsonirgWESTER N         L-    w   Poso       As,kuo               '        /J  T
i               > \                      Swecdiu         7      1   'em~~~~~~~~~AA C C R A
|I>   Abuo    A,orhL   1 2ACCRA
.  ( fe  \Dunkwo                                   0    10  20  300   50   K
T.rxko/                                         Winnebo                                MILES
A_so,       & Kim         Doboose  J           ?     Soltpood         The boo-dore, colors de-rm iot,on, ond .,n, J- he  t10  of
'u fs  K,kam -           ElmI-e  CAPE COAST             shown o- tfh,, nop do no- rnplF erh n,- pon oc The Wcdd B-o
Elmee                         Group on>y ,odgmert on, he legal rioros of drip ter'rzIr, 0, , 1
* 6    _J->SEKONDI -                           endorsement o, -coep-r-ce of    b.n dourdorne
A. m          Agona  TAKORAD
Nkwoneto
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FB~R 1 0"



