LOAAi/    2~
PitA.t tb   lRESTRICTED
Report No. PT-la
Ths teport is for offrci us odly by the ank Goup sad speicay suthrized oanlzato
or peaons. It nMy not be pubibsed, quoted or cited witdout Bank Group authoria tion. The
Dank Group does not ccept responsb"ity for the acwacy or oompleteness of the report.
INTEWATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE BABIN KUK TOURISM PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
June 2, 1971
Tourism Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Dinar
US$1.00           -  Dinar 15.00
Dinar 1.00        =  US$0.07
Dinar 1,000,000 - US$70,000
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 m     =  3.28 ft
1 m2    - 10.76 sq ft
1 km    =  0.62 mi
1 km2   =  0.386 sq mi
1 ha    =  2.5 acres
1 m ton =  0.98 ig ton
1.1 US sh ton
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE BABIN KUK TOURISM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY. . . 
1. INTRODUCTION..1
2.   BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
A.   The Economy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
B.   The Tourism Sector  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           2
3.   THE PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           4
A.   Background .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           4
B.   Description   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           6
C.   Design and Planning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           7
D.   Cost Estimates   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           7
E. Execution. . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
)4.  EXTERNAL INFRASTRUCTURE  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          11
5.   JUSTIFICATION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          12
A.   Market Demand .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          12
B.  Economic Justification .  .  .  .  .  .  . ,               14
6.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          15
A.   The Sponsor - Minceta  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          15
B.   The Borrower  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          16
C.   Organizational Structure  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          16
D.  Management Consultants .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           17
7.   FINANCE   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          17
A.   Financing Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          17
B.  Financial Forecasts .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           20
8.   RECOMMENDATIONS .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          22
This report is based on the findings of a project appraisal mission
consisting of Mr. D.T. Scarisbrick, Mr. J.G. Boyd, Mr. A. Odone,
Mr. J.E. Kulski (Consultant) and Mr. R. Calkins. The main report
was written by Mr. J.A. Simmons.



Tab-Le of' Contents
Page 2
Table No.
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Average Monthly Temperatures in Selected
Mediterranean Resorts  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           1
Breakdown of Cost..                                          2
Contingency Allowances        ..                             3
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements       .     ..
Growth of Tourist Traffic to Dubrovnik, 1961-69  .5
Development of Dubrovnik's Accommodation
Capacity,, 1965-69.  .  .  I  . ,.  .  .  .             6
Minceta's Financial Record of Growth 1962-69  .              7
Minceta's Balance Sheet 1962-69   .  .  .  .  .  .           8
Annex No.
ANNEXES
Hotel Subsidies .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           1
External Infrastructure  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           2
The Market..                                                 3
Economic Justification   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           4
Financial Analysis .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           5
Chart No.
CHARTS
Estimated Construction and Disbusement Schedule              1
General Organization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           2
MAPS
Babin Kuk Tourism Project Location   .1
Babin Kuk Tourism Project Land Use   .                       2



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAIL OF THE BABIN KUK TOURISM PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises a project to establish a large integrated
tourism complex at Dubrovnik on Yugoslavia's south Adriatic coast. The
complex would provide accommodations in nine hotels for 5,000 persons to-
gether with facilities for sports and recreation, restaurants, shops and
entertainment. The proposed project is one of several recommended in the
Physical Development Plan for the South Adriatic Region prepared over the
past five years with assistance from the UNDP.
ii.       International tourism in Yugoslavia has developed rapidly in the
past decade, with foreign exchange earnings from tourism rising from US$22.0
million to US$310.0 million equivalent. The principal destinations of for-
eign visitors are resorts on the Adriatic coast where about 80% of foreign
visitor nights are spent and almost two thirds of all hotel capacity is lo-
cated. Most visitors to the northern coastal resorts arrive by road. With
the greater distances to the southern Adriatic coast, air traffic is impor-
tant, In consequence this is a higher priced market, catering for a more
select clientele, for whom Dubrovnik has been the principal destination.
iii.      Yugoslavia's draft Development Plan for 1971-75 sets targets for
the tourism sector including a near doubling of hotel capacity and foreign
exchange earnings of US$900.0 million in 1975. These targets are ambitious,
but Yugoslavia's share of Mediterranean tourism is still small, and prices
there are still lower than in competing countries, on average by 20-25%.
Provided this competitive advantage can be maintained, there is little doubt
that with vigorous development policies Yugoslavia can attract many more
foreign visitors than heretofore.
iv.       The site for the proposed project is a small peninsula, about 4
km to the north of the old walled city of Dubrovnik. Besides the great
scenic beauty of the mountainous coastline, the palaces, churches and mon-
asteries of the old city are tourism assets in themselves and provide a
setting for a summer festival offering music, drama, opera and dance which
has been a major attraction for tourists in recent years.
v.        The project is one of the largest so far developed in Yugoslavia
or abroad. The scale of the project offers considerable potential economies
in construction and operation.  To realize this potential will require the
development of new management systems to identify and provide solutions to
problems which have not yet been met in the industry. It will also require
the selection and training of a management team. Qualified management con-
sultants will be engaged by the borrower to develop and implement the man-
agement systems and to select and train the senior management personnel.



- ii -
vi.       The project is estimated to cost US$45.5 million equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies. Interest during construction would amount to an ad-
ditional US$4.4 million equivalent. The project would be constructed and
operated by a new entity to be established for the purpose. The proposed
Bank loan of US$20.0 million would cover 38% of the total project cost and
US$2.8 million of interest during construction. The balance of the re-
quired financing would be provided by Minceta, a trading enterprise in
Dubrovnik and the sponsor of the project, as equity capital (19%) and by
Privredna Banka, Zagreb, the largest investment bank in Croatia, as a loan
to Minceta for onward lending to the new entity. Financial forecasts show
that the new entity should be able to meet all project costs and service
its debt satisfactorily.
vii.      The successful operation of the project would require investment
in external infrastructure, namely extensions to water and sewerage systems
in Dubrovnik and to the Dubrovnik airport, and short road connections. As-
surances have been received from the appropriate Yugoslav authorities that
these investments will be made. The share of the cost of such investments
which can properly be charged to the project is estimated at about US$1.0
million equivalent.
viii.     Contracts for construction and equipment would be awarded after
international competitive bidding. Depending on whether local or foreign
contractors would carry out the project and the extent to which foreign
equipment would be used, the foreign exchange component in the total pro-
ject costs would range from 24% to 38%. On the quite probable assumptions
that Yugoslav bidders would win construction contracts and that the bulk
of equipment would be imported, the foreign exchange component would be
about 30%, or US$13.8 million.
ix.       The benefits of the project would be measured by expenditures of
guests staying at the complex, of whom the large majority would be foreign
visitors. At the recently established official exchange rate of D 15.0 =
US$1.0, the internal economic return of the investment would be 12.3%. On
varying assumptions about occupancy, the exchange rate and the opening date
of the complex, the internal economic return would range from 10-18%. When
the proposed project is in full operation, the annual net foreign exchange
earnings are estimated at US$14.7 million.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million equival-
ent for a term of 22 years including a grace period of 5 years. The amount
of the loan is approximately equal to the maximum estimated foreign exchange
component. To the extent that local currency financing may be involved, it
would be justified on country economic grounds. The borrower would be the
new entity, referred to in vi above.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE BABIN KUK TOURISM PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01       Early in 1969 the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia requested assistance from the Bank in developing tourism along
the country's Adriatic coast and subsequently submitted three large scale
tourism projects for detailed consideration, located at Portoroz on the
northern Adriatic coast in Slovenia, at Dubrovnik in Croatia and at Budva
on the southern coast in Montenegro.
1.02       The project at Dubrovnik is one of those recommended in the Phy-
sical Development Plan for the South Adriatic Region which was prepared in
the past five years by an international team of Yugoslav and foreign plan-
ners with assistance from the UNDP.
1.03       The Dubrovnik project is an integrated tourism complex of 5,000
beds in nine hotels together with restaurants, shops, guest services and
recreational facilities. It is one of the largest tourism complexes so
far developed in Yugoslavia or abroad.
1.04       A project identification mission from the Bank visited Yugoslavia
in November 1969. In the course of project preparation missions during
1970, the project was substantially modified. The appraisal mission con-
sisting of Messrs. Scarisbrick, Boyd, Odone, Kulski (Consultant) and Calkins
(Young Professional) completed its field work in November, 1970.
1.05       The loan for the Babin Kuk project would be the first Bank loan
for tourism in Yugoslavia.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   The Economy
2.01       Yugoslavia is a Socialist Federal. State comprising six republics,
about the size of the United Kingdom. Its population of about 20 million
is growing at the rate of 1% per annum. The gross national product at current
market prices was estimated at US$12.0 billion equivalent in 1969 and per
capita income at US$600 equivalent.
2.02       In 1965 the Yugoslav Government initiated basic economic reforms
designecl to cle-centralize economic management and establish a market orient-
ed economy. Following a period of adjiustment and slow growth, real output



- 2 -
increased more rapidly from the middle of 1968 and grew by 97 in 1969.  In-
creased investment, particularly in industrial expansion and diversifica-
tion, and rising consumption generated sharp pressures on the balance of
payments. The expansion of commodity exports did not keep pace with the
growth of imports and earnings from "invisibles" became an increasingly
important element in the balance of payments, particularly those from
tourism which more than doubled during the four years to 1969 to become second
in volume only to remittances from workers living abroad.
2.03      Since 1965 unemployment in Yugoslavia has steadily increased.
In 1970 it was estimated to be 8% of the labor force in the socialized
sector. Much of this increase reflects the gains in labor productivity
stimulated by the reorganization of production after 1965. It also re-
flects a continuous migration of under-employed workers from rural to
urban areas. A regional imbalance in unemployment levels is accompanied
by a lengstanding disparity in levels of incomie between the less and the
more developed areas of the country. In recognition of this problem the
Government has stressed the need for greater balance in the regional dis-
tribution of employment and income and the development of tourism, parti-
cularly on the southern Adriatic coast, will contribute to this objective.
2.04      The prospects for Yugoslavia's further economic development are,
on the whole, favorable. The industriousness of her people, her sizable
natural resources and proximity to European industrial nations provide
the basis for continued expansion. Growth will, however, largely depend
on the increase of earnings of foreign exchange, particularly of convert-
ible currencies. Tourism is a sector where Yugoslavia has a comparative
advantage and where the major part of foreign exchange earnings is in con-
vertible currencies.
B. The Tourism Sector
2.05      Yugoslavia, with over 2,000 kms of mountainous coastline of great
scenic beauty, warm, dry summers and picturesque old coastal towns and
villages, of which Dubrovnik is the most famous, possesses tourist attrac-
tions which compare favorably with any in the Mediterranean. These attrac-
tions together with the country's relative proximity to the major touris!t
generating centers of Europe constitute an important potential for the in-
dustry.
2.06      The fast growth of foreign tourism to Yugoslavia has been mainly
a phenomenon of the past decade. Growing prosperity in Europe and more
liberal entry policies to Yugoslavia brought a rising demand for travel to
the country, while the implementation of certain key investments, particu-
larly the construction of the Adriatic highway (partly finance by Loan 344-
YU of 1963) and the rapid expansion of hotel capacity, made it possible to
go far in meeting this demand. Foreign visitor nights spent in Yugoslavia
increased more than five-fold over the decade to reach 22.4 million in 1969,



while estimated excursion traffic (those not staying overnight) increased
from 1 million in 1960 to 30 million visitors in 1969.
2.07      Gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism including those aris-
ing from tourist transportation are officially estimated to have risen from
UiS$22 million in 1960 to US$310 million in 1969, an average annual growth
rate of 35%. As a proportion of total receipts from exports of goods and
services, tourism receipts rose from 3% to 13% over this period.
2.08      Statistics of the impact of the growth of the sector on employment
are incomplete. Between 1960 and 1969, 50,000 new jobs were created in tour-
ism and catering in the socialized sector, which at present absorbs about
130,000 workers (3.5% of the total in employment). In addition small priv-
ate ventures have developed (restaurants, pensions, etc.) particularly along
the Adriatic coast, but statistics on these are not available.
2.09      The principal destinations of holiday visitors to Yugoslavia are
resorts on the Adriatic coast where about 80% of foreign visitor nights are
spent and almost two thirds of all hotel capacity is located. Most visitors
to the northern coastal resorts arrive by road, particularly those from
Italy, Germany and Austria, who together account for more than 50% of all
stopover visitors. With the greater distances involved in reaching the
southern Adriatic coast, air traffic plays a greater role. In consequence
this is a higher priced market catering for a more select clientele, for
whom Dubrovnik has been the principal destination.
2.10      As in other Mediterranean countries, Yugoslavia's foreign tourist
traffic is rather seasonal with peaks in July and Augtust. Domestic tourism
in certain favored locations offsets to some extent the sharp seasonal. fluc-
tuations in foreign visitor traffic, and particular locations, for climatic
and other reasons, have a longer season than the average for the coast.
Dubrovnik is one of these, with annual bed-occupancies well above the aver-
age in Yugoslavia.
2.11      Recognizing the important contribution that tourism could make to
earnings of foreign exchange, particularly of convertible currencies, the
Federal and Republican Governments have taken a series of measures to as-
sist the growth of the sector. Important among these were:
(i)  the implementation of various tourism oriented infra-
structure projects such as the Adriatic higlhway;
(ii)  liberalization of restrictions on entry of foreign
visitors;
(i.l)  the introdtiction of Incentives for development of
tourist facilities, including subsidies on bank funds
lent for tourism investments, (Annex 1) higher foreign
currency retention quotas for tourist enterprises than
for other export industries, and exemption from the 3%
Federal tax on salaries for personal incomes paid in
the tourist industry;



- 4 -
(iv)  the promotion of comprehensive regional plans with
particular emphasis on tourism, such as the Physical
Development Plan for the South Adriatic Region, un-
dertaken in the past five years with assistance from
the UNDP.
2.12      The various incentives to development have helped to bring about
a major expansion of hotel capacity in the industry. From 1960-69 accom-
modation in hotels alone quadrupled, rising from 33,000 to 130,000 beds.
Investment is continuing. The 1971-75 Draft Plan for the industry en-
visages a total investment exceeding $500 million, and additions to ca-
pacity of 100,000 to 120,000 hotel beds over this period. It also esti-
mates foreign exchange earnings of USS900 million in 1975. These targets
are ambitious. Nevertheless, Yugoslavia's present share of Mediterranean
tourism is still modest; hotel capacity is only 6% of the total in OECD
Mediterranean countries, and a slightly lower proportion of capacity in
all Mediterranean countries. Despite the price increases which have oc-
curred in the past decade, hotel and other tariffs in Yugoslavia are still
20-25%. lower than in competing countries of the region. Assuming that this
competitive advantage can be maintained, with vigorous development policies
Yugoslavia should be able to achieve an increase in her share of Mediterranean
tourism.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The town of Dubrovnik on Yugoslavia's southern Adriatic coast is
at about the same latitude as Elba and Barcelona. Sheltered by high moun-
tains from cold winds in winter, the climate compares favorably with other
well-known Mediterranean resorts such as Nice and Monte Carlo, with warm
dry summers and mild winters. (Table 1) The natural setting of coastal
mountains, subtropical vegetation, a rocky and indented shoreline, pine-
clad islands offshore and intensely blue sea, form a landscape both beau-
tiful and dramatic. In this setting lies the old city of Dubrovnik, the
capital of the ancient republic of Ragusa. Largely rebuilt after a great
earthquake in 1667, the old city, encircled by massive walls and fortifi-
cations has been carefully preserved since that time. Romanesque, Gothic,
Renaissance and Baroque monuments harmoniously coexist, and within the
many churches, monasteries and palaces are important works of art, includ-
ing paintings by Titian and Vasari. A summer festival of high artistic
standards offering music, ballet, theatre and opera as well as a flourish-
ing school of local painters and sculptors provides additional attractions
for the tourist.
3.02      Until the 1960's Dubrovnik was accessible for foreign visitors
only by sea. The opening of the Adriatic highway, and the expansion of
Dubrovnik airport, now capable of handling planes up to the Boeing 707,



have made possible the great expansion of tourism to the area in the last
decade. Regular direct year-round flights link Dubrovnik with Belgrade,
Sarajevo, Zagreb and Rome. During the season from May to September regu-
lar direct flights also operate twice-weekly to a number of European
cities including Athens, Venice, Vienna, Munich, Frankfurt, Zurich, Copen-
hagen, Amsterdam, Paris and London. The area is served also by charter
flights from Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, Holland and Germany. Passen-
ger and car-ferry services operate between Dubrovnik and other Adriatic and
Ionian ports such as Split, Rijeka, Trieste, Bari and Piraeus.
The Project Site
3.03      The site for the project is a small, peninsula within the town
boundaries, approximately 4 km north of the old city. Partly pine-covered,
the area slopes gently from a high point (altitude 100 m) to the sea. It
has about 1.5 km of indented rocky coastline and about 0.5 km to the north-
east is the small island of Daksa which has sandy beaches and dense woods.
Because of its topography the site offers panoramic views of the sea and
surrounding islands, and it has a slightly more favorable climate than the
old city. It is the last large tract of undeveloped land fronting the sea
within Dubrovnik's town boundaries (see map 1). During negotiations the
sponsors of the project agreed that a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan would be the acquisition of 73 ha of the project site. It
was also agreed that the remaining 6 ha of the project site will be ac-
quired by June 30, 1972 and that no construction contracts would be award-
ed until the whole 79 ha has been acquired.
The Concept
3.04      The concept of the project is that of an integrated tourist resort
large enough to support a variety of facilities for sports and entertainment,
restaurants, shops and services. The project is designed to cater for the
resident guests and the substantial numbers of non-resident daily visitors
who will be attracted by the variety and proximity of facilities available.
The concept of the Bahin Kuk tourism complex was conceived within the larger
framework of the Master Plan for Dubrovnik, itself an integral part of the
Physical Development Plan for the South Adriatic Reglon.
3.05      The project will include O hotels operated individually btit parti-
cipating in certain common services under the general direction of the proj-
ect management. This will leave most day-to-day operations in units of
easily manageable size. It will at the same time provide substantial oper-
ating economies from joint advertising and promotion, training and the pur-
chase of supplies and from the provision of services such as heating and
laundry which will be operated for the complex as a whole. There will also
be a common computerized reservations system which will ease the handling
of large groups, increasingly characteristic of modern tourism.
3.06      The concept of individual hotels uin(ler a single ownership oper-
ating under one overall, direction permits the flexibility of opening and



- 6 -
closing units as required by seasonal fluctuations in traffic with conse-
quential economies in operating and maintenance costs. There will also be
economies in investment costs from providing project infrastructure includ-
ing roads and parking spaces, marinas, swimming pools, shopping and enter-
tainment centers on an integrated basis.
3.07      With so large a complex, careful consideration was given to the
question of wlhether the project should be developed in stages. Demand is
expected to be adequate by the mid 1970's, when the project will open to
support the complex as a whole, and there would be serious disadvantages
in a phased development. Important among these would be the unfavorable
impact on visitor traffic caused by the disturbance resulting from con-
struction over an extended period and the likelihood of additional costs
arising from staged construction.
B. Description
3.08      The project comprises a 5,000 bed hotel complex and communal
centers with shops, restaurants, recreation facilities together with the
necessary stores, service and other ancillary buildings. The beds would
be distributed among a luxury class hotel (300 beds), four class A hotels
(1,700 beds) and four class B hotels (3,000 beds). The class B hotels
would remain open only during April-October.
3.09      The architectural concept is of multi-story hotels with exten-
sive terraces and balconies. The complex will be placed on the higher
parts of the sloping terrain, separated from the shore recreational fa-
cilities by an open green zone. The Dubrovnik Master Plan requires that
this green zone containing rare tree specimens be conserved, and that the
land be used only for recreational purposes which would not disturb the
existing ecology of the area.
3.10      The varying ground conditions, landscape and micro-climate on
different parts of the peninsula are factors which have defined the most
suitable site for the various tourist facilities. The north western
part of the Babin Kuk peninsula will contain the luxury and class A
hotels for all year-round use. Class B hotels will be located to the
northeast.  (Map 2)  The approximate total area of buildings is about
130,000 m2 divided as follows: Luxury hotel 7.3%; class A hotels 34.2%;
class B hotels 44.6%; shops and restaurants 4.5%; agencies and offices
1.5%; service center 7.8%.
3.11      There will be two commercial centers, one serving the year-round
hotels and the other the class B hotels. These centers will contain shops,
speciality restaurants, coffee shops, bars, as well as travel and tourist
agencies, a bank, a post office and other public services.
3.12      Initially, parking for 1,100 cars will be built with a possible
future expansion to about 1,700.  This would be ample on the assumption



- 7 -
that about 25% of the guests will arrive by car resulting in about 85
parking spaces per 1,000 hotel beds. The complex is expected to serve
mainly air-borne tourists who will travel from the airport by bus. To
enable the tourists to travel by boat to the old city and neighboring
islands, a harbor will be provided at the western end of the site.
3.13      The project includes staff housing because of the critical housing
shortage in Dubrovnik and because the hotel complex will draw part of its
staff from other parts of Yugoslavia. Fifty apartments and hostels with ac-
commodations for 350 seasonal workers, approximately 18% of the estimated to-
tal staff, will be provided.
C. Design and Planning
3.14      Architectural and city planning controls under the approved Master
Plan of Dubrovnik are being strictly enforced by the municipal authorities
with professional assistance from the Zagreb Urban Institute. The proposed
project must conform to these regulations, which not only govern the use of
the land but also the height, hulk and materials of buildings. The general-
ized land use plan, has already been approved as being in conformance with
existing zoning regulations. Before the building permit is granted the de-
tailed architectural studies of the hotel complex will also have to be ap-
proved by the municipality. In order to ensure that the final detailed
architectural designs meet the operating requirements of the complex, the
architects' brief will be developed with the assistance of the management
consultants. The final site plan and architectural designs would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for approval.
D. Cost Estimates
3.15      The estimated total cost and foreign exchange component of the
project are summarized in the following table:



Cost Estimate
(millions)
Dinars           US$  Equivalent         % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Project Cost
i. Land                 22.5     -    22.5   1.50    -    1.50          3.3
ii. Construction
Site Development 40.3   11.1   51.4   2.69  0.74   3.43
Buildings        224.3   61.9  286.2  14.95  4.13  19.08
Professional
Fees*           18.0   30.0   48.0   1.20  2.00   3.20
Sub-Total 282.6  103.0  385.6  18.84  6.87  25.71         56.5
iii. Equipment            21.8   48.2   70.0   1.45  3.21   4.66         10.2
iv. Housing               6.9    2.0    8.9   0.46  0.13   0.59          1.3
v. Staff Training
and Pre-opening
Expenses             4.0    1.2    5.2   0.27  0.08   0.35          0.8
vi. Management
Assistance            1.1    7.6    8.7   0.07  0.51   0.58         1.3
vii. Project
Administration       4.9    1.5    6.4   0.33  0.10   0.43          0.9
viii. Working Capital    17.0        -    17.0   1.13   -       1.13       2.5
Total before
Contingency      360.8  163.5  524.3  24.05 10.90  34.95
ix. Contingency
Physical
Increase        31.8   15.0   46.8   2.12  1.00   3.12
Price Increase   84.0   27.9  111.9   5.60  1.86   7.46
Sub-Total  115.8   42.9  158.7   7.72  2.86  10.58         23.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST   476.6  206.4  683.0  31.77 13.76  45.53    100.0
* Includes cost of sewerage and traffic studies.
3.16      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$45.5 million.
Unit construction costs of US$135.0 equivalent per m2 were used in project



- 9 -
cost estimates, reflecting up-to-date construction costs of similar types
of accommodation in Yugoslavia. Construction costs in Yugoslavia have in-
creased at an average rate of about 12-1/2% annually since 1965 and this
trend has recently accelerated. The dinar was devalued in January 1971
from D 12.5 to D 15.0 per U.S. dollar. It is very difficult, so soon after
devaluation, to gauge its likely impact on domestic costs. In arriving at
the price contingency, an 8% per annum increase has been assumed during the
construction periodl for domestic costs and a 6% per annum increase for
foreign costs. The 8% estimate of yearly domestic cost increases is based
on construction price trends in Yugoslavia in the four years following the
1965 devaluation; the price contingency allowances can be regarded as
prudently adequate. In addition a 10% physical contingency allowance for
construction has been made, since final designs for the project have not yet
been completed. For site development and equipment, a contingency allowance
of 15% has been included to cover undefined soil conditions and unforeseen
equipment needs. The details of the allowances provided for other compo-
nents of the project are shown in Table 3. The overall provision for con-
tingencies would amount to 23.2% of total project costs.
3.17      The standards of hotel accommodation under the proposed project
are economical. The sizes of bedrooms and public areas have been based
upon standards of similar hotels in Yugoslavia and abroad. Estimated unit
costs of construction and equipment for different classes of hotels are
shown below:
Project Hotels TJnit Costs (US$)
Hlotel Category    IUnit      Site Development   Building   Equipment   Total
Luxury            Bed Cost          1,227            5,333       1,333      7,893
Class "A"         Bed Cost            566            3,294         647      4,507
Class 'B"         Eed Cost            416            2,500         566      3,482
These costs are reasonable.
3.18      The foreign exchange component of the total project cost would de-
pend upon the outcome of international bidding.  The size of construction
contracts would be large enough to attract foreign bids.  W4ere such bids suc-
cessfiil, and were the htlk of equipment to he imported, the foreign exclhange
component could be as high as 38% of total project cost.  Should Yugoslav
contractors win the btds and the hulk of equipment be obtained from domestic
firms, the foreign exchange component would be about 24%. On the assumption
that all construction contracts would be won by Yugoslav contractors and the
bulk of equipment would be imported, as is probable, the foreign exchange
component would be 307 of total project costs or US$13.8 million.



- 10 -
Amount of the Loan
3.19      The proposed loan of US$20 million would amount to 40% of the
estimated total costs of the project of IJS$49.9 million including interest
during construction. It would cover the foreign exchange costs of the
project, estimated at US$13.8 million equivalent, interest and other charges
on the Bank loan during construction, amounting to US$2.8 million and would
provide about US$3.4 million equivalent for local ctirrency financing. If
all construction and equtipment contracts were won by foreigners, the loan
would approximate the full foreign exchange component of the project.
Disbursements
3.20      The loan would be disbursed on the basis of (a) identifiable for-
eign exchange costs of all imported equipment and professional services, (b)
interest and other charges during construction and (c) an appropriate per-
centage of civil works and locally procured equipment. The estimated
schedule of disbursements of the loan is shown in Table 4.
Procurement
3.21      Civil works contracts and contracts for equipment and furniture
would be awarded under international competitive bidding. Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage such competitive bidding.
The proposed project is well within the capacity of the Yugoslav construc-
tion industry to implement, but it is expected that foreign contractors
would submit bids. In evaluating bids, local equipment manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 157 of the c.i.f. costs of com-
peting imports or the level of customs duties generally applicable, which-
ever is the lower. During the loan negotiations, assurances have been ob-
tained that a pre-qualification system, prepared by the consulting archi-
tects and engineers and acceptable to the Bank, is to be employed to en-
sure that only qualified contractors will be allowed to submit bids for
construction.
E. Execution
3.22      Consultant architects and engineers would be commissioned to de-
sign the project, including interior design and landscaping. They would
be responsible for the preparation of master plans, specifications and
working drawings. They would also supervise tendering, construction, and
installation of equipment, and would approve payments. The conclusion of
a contract between the borrower and the consultant architects, acceptable
to the Bank, has been agreed as a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan. This contract will include detailed project implementation
programs.
3.23      A construction office headed by a full-time manager will be
established for the construction of the project. The construction manager



- 11 -
will be directly responsible to the Director of Babin Kuk and will be
appointed1 subject to approval by the Bank. It has been agreed that the
construction manager irll be appointed as a condition of effectiveness.
The construction office will include on a full-time basis, architects,
engineers, an equipment specialist, a procurement officer and an account-
ant, all with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The borrower has
provided assurances that the construction office will be provided with
sufficient supporting staff, office space, equipment, transportation and
finance to enable it to function effectively. Tt has been agreed that
the establishment of the construction office will be a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.24      The consultant architects and engineers will prepare a manual of
maintenance. During negotiations it was agreed that the borrower will pro-
vide assurances that adequate provision for maintenance as recommended in
this manual would be made.
4. EXTERNAL INFRASTRUCTUREF
4.01      The recent expansion of tourism in the Dubrovnik area has
strained the commune's infrastructure facilities.  There is need for more
expenditious handling of the flow of aircraft, passengers and baggage passing
through the airport; the access roads linking the Adriatic Highway with
the area south east of the old city and the main streets leading from the
new harbor area to the old city are subject to severe traffic congestion
during the peak tourist season; while Dubrovnik's sewage system has been
extended to service new hotel and commercial facilities, the system dis-
charges untreated sewage into the sea at various points, resulting in
heavy pollution in the port area and significant contamination along some
parts of the coastline used for bathing and other recreational purposes.
It is evident that the planned rapid expansion of tourism facilities, of
which the Babin Kuk complex will be the major component, will aggravate
these problems. (Annex 2).
4.02      It is estimated that by 1980 peak hour aircraft movements and
passenger arrivals at the Dubrovnik airport will be more than three times
those in the 1970 toturist season. The Airport Enterprise has developed
with the help of consultants, a comprehensive program for staged expansion
of the airport facilities. The Federal Government as guarantor has agreed
to provide assurances that a first phase of the airport expansion pro-
grain covering improvements and extension of the terminal, construction of
a taxiway and an apron and the installation of additional lighting and
other equipment, will be completed no later than December 31, 1974.
4.03      Based on present and projected demand, the present source of water
for Duhrovnik will be adeqgate for many years to come, but additional trans-
mission and ptunping capacity will be needed by mid 1975. The cost of these
aclditions is estimated at about US$1.0 million. To safeguiard Dubrovnik as
a prime tourism area, the city's entire sewerage system needs to be extended



- 12 -
and improved as soon as possible. The Federal Government has agreed to
provide assurances that the municipality of Dubrovnik and the Dubrovnik
lWater and Sewerage Enterprise will: (i) complete the engineering studies
for extending and improving the water supply and sewer-age systems; (ii)
take action to ensure that the sections of the systems affecting the
project will be completed in time for the opening of the proposed project;
and (iii) endeavor to complete the full program by 1975, and in any case
complete it within a few years thereafter. The proposed Bank loan includes
US$150,000 to provide the foreign exchange component required in carrying
out the engineering studies for extending and improving the water supply
and sewerage systems. During negotiations it was agreed that this amount
would be relent by the borrower to either the Municipality of Dubrovnik or
the Duhrovnik Water and Sewerage Enterprise for the purpose of the studies.
4.04      Relatively minor improvements in the road system will be re-
quirez' to give better access to Babin Kuk from the rest of Dubrovnik, and
from the Adriatic highway. The project would, however, intensify traffic
congestion on Dubrovnik's main streets during the peak tourist season (ex-
cept in the old city which is closed to general traffic). Solutions pro-
posed so far for this problem would be expensive and of doubtful effective-
ness. A different approach seems necessary, which may involve banning priv-
ate vehicles from most of the town. The Federal Government has agreed to
provide assurances that the municipality of Dubrovnik will: (i) complete
the minor road improvements required for the project no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1974; (ii) commission a study by consultants of alternative solutions
to the problem of peak season traffic congestion in Dubrovnik, with the
consultants and their terms of reference being approved by the Bank. The
proposed Bank loan includes US$150,000 to provide the foreign exchange com-
ponent required in carrying out the traffic study. During negotiations it
was agreed that this amount would be relent by the borrower to the Munici-
pality of Dubrovnik for the purpose of the study. The borrower has agreed
to present, before the start of operations, a plan for review by the Bank
for transportation of guests between the complex and the old city.
4.05      The guarantor has asked the Bank for its assistance in financing
the Dubrovnik infrastructure programs discussed above.
5. JUSTIFICATION
A.  Market Demand
5.01      With a slow recovery of tourist traffic to Dubrovnik in the after-
math of World War II and during the 1950's, it was not until 1959 that traf-
fic caught up with the pre-war level. With improved transportation links,
traffic in the 1960's expanded rapidly. Foreign tourist nights rose by 19%
annually from 1961 to 1969 reaching 895,000 in the latter year. This fast
growth was not matched by a comparable growth in capacity and the consequent
rise in prices caused domestic tourists to seek cheaper accommodations else-



- 13 -
where. Hence domestic tourist nights spent in Dubrovnik almost halved be-
tween 1961 and 1967 but this trend was reversed in the next two years with a
general expansion in Yugoslav domestic tourism. The overall annual growth
in tourist nights from 1961-69 was 10.3%. (Table 5). This growth rate
would have been faster had more capacity existed; substantial numbers of
potential visitors were unable to secure accommodation during the peak sea-
son in recent years.
5.02      Though the four months, June to September are the months of high-
est foreign demand, substantial numbers of foreign visitors come also in
March, April, May and October, and occupancies in class A hotels especially
are high during these months. Many domestic tourists visit Dubrovnik in
the off season, encouraged by large seasonal price reductions. These favor-
able factors have meant average annual bed occupanies in Dubrovnik's hotels
(62% in 1969) much above the average for other Adriatic resorts: for ex-
ample, the Slovenian coast (35%), Venice (36%) and Rimini (25%). Moreover
occupancies in class A hotels have consistently been higher (74% in 1969)
than in class B (57% in 1969) and class C hotels (46% in 1969), although the
increase in capacity in class A hotels was much faster than in the lower cat-
egories over the past five years. The proportion of class A capacity to to-
tal hotel capacity is much greater in Dubrovnik than in most Yugoslav coastal
resorts. These various factors point to the special characteristics of the
foreign tourist market for Dubrovnik. It is mainly a richer clientele, whose
interests are sight-seeing and culture as well as climate and the beach, and
also one which is not entirely restricted to holidays in the peak summer sea-
son.
5.03      The growth in hotel capacity in the past five years has been whol-
ly in classes A and B. Approximately 1,000 beds have been added, almost 800
in class A and about 250 in class B. There was a slight decline in class C
hotel capacity and in supplementary accommodation. (Table 6) Total capacity
amounted to almost 10,700 beds in 1969.
5.04      The expansion of hotel capacity envisaged for the next five years
including the Babin Kuk project would add about 8,000 beds in higher class
hotels - Luxury, A and B. There are no plans for expanding capacity in C
class hotels or in supplementary accommodation. Of the 8,000 beds, 5,000
would be in Luxury and class A hotels and 3,000 in class B hotels. This
proportion is approximately in line with past growth in traffic to the dif-
ferent classes of accommodation, but also provides for a substantial growth
in middle level capacity which could appeal especially to larger groups
travelling on charter flights.
5.05      In Dubrovnik the growth of traffic is mainly dependent on the
growth of capacity.  With adequate promotion and satisfactory service at
competitive prices, a large increase in capacity there, amounting to only
a small fraction of capacity in all comparable (competitive) destinations,
can be sold.
5.06      A holiday in Dubrovnik is within reach of a small but rapidly grow-
ing section of the tourist market in western Europe, which supplies the bulk



- 14 -
of foreign visitors to Yugoslavia. Germany, the U.K. and the Netherlands ac-
counted for about hal.f of total visitors nights in recent years. For desti-
nations comparable in price with Dubrovnik, vacation visitor arrivals have
risen considerably in recent years, and the growth rate may well increase
as European incomes rise. The recent rise in domestic visitor traffic to
Dubrovnik also seems likely to continue.
5.07      An analysis of the likely growth in the different categories of
visitor traffic to Dubrovnik and of hotel occupancies as new capacity is
added in the next five years shows that with a growth in visitor nights
equivalent to an average of 12.4% annually from 1969 to 1977, and no change
in seasonality, average hotel occupanies will decline in 1975 with the large
additions to capacity projected for that year, but should be almost back to
current high levels by 1977-78. (Annex 3). These assumptions appear reason-
able in that the growth and pattern of traffic they imply are not out of
line with Dubrovnik's past development trends or the likely developments in
originating markets.  Moreover the new hotels will cater for both new traf-
fic and previously unsatisfied demand.
B. Economic Justification
Economic Return
5.08      The quantifiable net benefits from the project consist of visi-
tors' expenditures in the complex less the costs (excluding depreciation,
taxes and interest payments) of operating the project. The investment is
the capital cost of the project itself plus the share of the cost of ex-
ternal inf'rastructure properly chargeable to the project, which is esti-
mated at approximately US$1.0 million.
5.09      Additional benefits would be derived from visitors' expenditures
outside the project to the extent that these do not require additional in-
vestments but enable a fuller utilization of existing capacity to be made.
It has not been possible to quantify such benefits with much precision.
Sample studies indicate, however, that up to 38% of tourists' total daily
expenditures in Dubrovnik are for goods and services other than accommoda-
tion and food. This high proportion is attributable to the sophisticated'
clientele visiting Dubrovnik and the comprehensive range of opportunities
available for such expenditures ranging from the traditional souvenir trade
through to the famous Dubrovnik festival of arts and music. These external
effects are therefore quite sizable and are not reflected in the measure
of the overall economic benefits which the Yugoslav economy is likely to
derive from the operation of the project.
5.10      With an estimated economic life of the project of 25 years and
at,the present rate of exchange of D 15.0 to US$1.0, the internal econom-
ic return on the project would be 12.3%. As approximately 90% of visitor
expenditures would represent receipts of foreign exchange, the rate of re-
turn would be highly sensitive to any change in the foreign exchange rate.



- vJ -
Ince rc-"ulis ocf sellsiLivity testing indicate thLat tile rate of return would
also he highly sensitive to changes in occupancy levels an(d a delay in
openinig (Annex 4).  At tlhe time of appraisal, the rates for the dinar in
various grey markets ranged from D 15.0 to D 18.0 = US$1.0. Taking also
into account varying assumptions about occupancv levels and the opening
date, tlhe internal economic returni could range from 97. with the worst
combination of variables to almost 18% with tlie best combination.  The
best estimate of the economic rate of return is 16.9%.
Foreign Exchange Earnings
5.11      When the proposed project is fully operational the annual net for-
eign exchange earnings are estimated at US$14.7 million equivalent. This
compares with the estimated foreign component in total investment costs plus
interest during construction of US$16.6 million.
6. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The Sponsor - Minceta
6.01      The project sponsor - the enterprise Minceta - is a wholesale
and retail business formed by amalgamation of several small enterprises
in 1962, trading in general merchandise mainly in the Dubrovnik area.
Minceta has a record of successful sales growth, accompanied by an even
faster rise in profitability and reinvestment of funds. The rapid growth
and a heavy build-up of inventories as an inflation hedge, has resulted
in a continuing problem of illiqitidity, which could prove serious were ec-
onomic conditions to change. Minceta's top management is dynamic and
flexible, though the management structure is thiin, and net worth (almost
US$2.0 million equivalent at the end of 1969) very small in relation to
the project. Tables summarizing Minceta's financial growth are attached
(Tables 7 and 8).
6.02      Minceta's management originally proposed that the Babin Kuk project
should be an integral part of the Minceta enterprise, operated as a division.
In addition to the Babin Kuk project, however, Minceta has plans for further
expansion both by entering new business activities and by absorption of other
enterprises. Acceptance of this proposal would have meant the exposure of
the project to the risk entailed in all future activities of Minceta as well
as a potential liability for all Minceta's future debts. It would have re-
quired extensive supervision of all Minceta's activities by the Bank, almost
all unrelated to the tourism project. It has, therefore, been agreed with
Minceta that a legal separate unit should be formed to construct Babin Kuk
and operate it subsequently.



- 16 -
B. The Borrower
6.03      The borrower of the Bank loan would be the new entity to be called
"Babin Kuk" Hotel Tourist Center, Dubrovnik (hereinafter referred to as
BKIITC). BKHTC would be somewhat analogous, in Western terms, to a subsidiary
company whose sole shareholder would be Minceta. The detailed provisions of
the relationship between the two entities will be covered in a joint venture
contract. During negotiations agreement was reached on a definitive version
of the contract.
6.04      This contract is designed to provide for the assets of the proj-
ect to be protected from any future creditors of Minceta, for the introduc-
tion of Minceta's equity investment and for the rights, duties, obligations
and undertakings governing the relationship between Minceta and BKHTC, in-
cludirig a formula providLng that 45Y of annual net profits or losses is at-
tributable to Minceta.
6.05      During negotiations it has been agreed that prior to the presenta-
tion of the loan to the Executive Directors the separate legal entity BT'HTC
will be formed and that the contract regulating the relationship between
Minceta and BKHTC will be signed. Changes in the terms of this contract or
in the relationship between Minceta and BKHTC will be subject to approval
by the Bank.
C. Organizational Structure
6.06      The operational management of the complex would be exercised by
the Director of BKHTC over whose appointment the Bank would have the right
of approval initially and for the first three years of operation of the
project. The Director would be a member of a "Business Committee", consist-
ing in addition to himself, of 3 representatives of Minceta and 1 representa-
tive of BKIITC. This committee would be responsible for the determination
of overall policy. The appointment of the Director of BKIITC is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
6.07      Subject to modifications which may be suggested by the management
consultants referred to below, the Director of BKHTC should have three oper-
ational assistants reporting to him. One would be responsible for the oper-
ations of the hotels, restaurants and bars. The managers of the 9 indivi-
dual hotels would report to him. The second would be responsible for enter-
tainment, recreation and guest service functions, and the third would be re-
sponsible for the centralized services of hotel reservations, food pre-prep-
aration, laundry, heating, transportation, storage and repairs and mainte-
nance. In addition, those responsible for Public Relations and General Ad-
ministration covering the functions of central purchasing, accounting and
internal audit, personnel and information, would report to the Director. A
chart of the proposed management organization is attached (Chart 2).



- 17 -
D.  Management Consultants
6.08      The creation of a successful management structure for the complex
may be divided into two distinct but inter-dependent phases. The first or
pre-opening phase would be concerned with developing and coordinating the
systems and procedures and with recruiting and training the key personnel
required to achieve the operating standards set for the project. The second
or "post-opening" phase would be concerned with operating the complex using
the systems, procedures and staff developed in the pre-opening phase and in-
troducing changes indicated by actual operating experience.
6.09      To realize fully the economies of scale presented by the project,
problems and difficulties, most of which have not generally faced the tour-
ism industry before, will have to be successfully identified and overcome.
To provide sufficient resources both to identify these problems and devise
and implenent the solutions, Minceta has agreed to retain qualified con-
SU ltants.
6.10      It is true that, because of the uniqueness of the project, no or-
ganization or consultant can have had actual experience of the problems that
will be posed by Babin Kuk. The solution must be to blend the knowledge and
experience of the best management consultants, the expertise available in
the international hotel industry and local Yugoslav resources to create a
team which is capable of developing the management systems prior to opening
the comnlex and has the ability to adapt and amend them during the operation-
al life of the project after the consultants have departed. Minceta has de-
cided to seek the help of foreign management consultants in this task.
6.11      The consultants' assignment would last for at least the 4 years
of construction and the first 18 months of operation. They would be re-
sponsible to BKHTC for the development, coordination and implementation of
the management and operational systems and for the selection and training
of top and middle management personnel. Before rejecting any of the con-
sultants' proposals, BKHITC would seek the approval of the Bank which will
needI to maintain close contact and supervision of the pre-opening and post-
opening phases of the project.
6.12      The firm of management consultants selectedl and the detailed con-
tract and terms of roference w,All all he sublect to Bank approval.  It is a
condlition of effcetiveness of the proposed loan that tHe contract between
the borrower andl the management consultants be signe(l.
7. FTNANCE,
A. Financing Plan
7.01      The total estimate(d financial requirements of the project together
with interest during construction are expected to he provided as follows:



- 18 -
Financing Plan
(IJS$ million)
Estimated        Interest
Project          During                    %  of
Cost        Construction       Total      Total
Equity - Minceta                   9.50                            9.50s     19.0
Long-Term Debt
Privredna Banka Zagreb
(via Minceta)                 17.70            1.58          19.28       38.6
IBRD                              17.20            2.80          20.00       40.1
44.40            4.38          48.78
Working Capital - Minceta          1.13                            1.13        2.3
45.53            4.38          49.91      100.0
7.02      Minceta's equity contribution of US$9.50 million equiivalent will
include cash in the amount of US$3.00 million, and land valued at US$1.50
million. Most of this land has already been acquired by Minceta. As a
condition of effectiveness, however, acquisition of the 73 ha of site area
must be verified. Minceta's cash equity contribution (US$8.0 million) is to
be obtained from a loan to Minceta from the Privredna Banka of Zagreb, the
largest investment bank of Croatia. The working capital of US$1.13 million
will be provided by Minceta.
7.03      It should be noted that the usual concept of equity and its rela-
tionship to risk is not fully applicable in the Yugoslav context. The workers
of BKHTC will have the assets of the enterprise assigned to them by the
state, rights over its income and bear some of the commercial risk, since
their income would be reduced to some extent in the event of losses. They
will give up a percentage of net profits to Minceta for a specified time
under a joint venture contract. Outside the terms of this contract, Minceta
will not legally have rights of equity in the usual sense. Only a portion of
the benefits of the high leverage in this loan will accrue to the sponsor,
Minceta; the major share will go to BKHTC's workers and to build up BKHTC's
financial position. As is usual in Yugoslavia and as noted below, the bulk of
the dinar financing will be provided by a local bank on terms so favorable as
to constitute quasi-equity. The proposed financial structure is acceptable
in the light of these considerations.
7.04      Minceta's loan to BKHTC of US$17.70 million equivalent is to be fi-
nanced also from a loan from the Privredna Banka, Zagreb. Under an agreement
dated July 17, 1969, the Privredna Banka agreed to lend Minceta up to D 320.0



- 19 -
million (IUS$21.34 million equivalent) for BKHTC. It has been agreed that
D 120 million (US$8.0 million equivalent) of this total is to be invested by
minceta as equity in BKHTC.  Privredna Banka has confirmed that in accordance
witlh its normal practice an additional amount will be provided to cover in-
terest during construction. The agreement of July 17, 1969, was made prior
to investment costs being revised, and Privredna Banka has agreed to provide
all the additional funds required plus interest during construction. In
a(daition assurances were obtained during negotiations that Minceta and
the Privredna Banka would be jointly and severally liable to cover possible
cost over-runs. The loan from Privredna Banka would be for thirty years in-
cluding a grace period of five years. The loan from Minceta to BKIITC would
be for the same period and It would be subordinated to the proposed loan
from the Bank.
7.05      Both the Federal and the Croatian Governments subsidize the in-
terest rates payable on long-term loans made by the banks for tourism proj-
ects. These subsidies will apply to the loans provided by the Privredna
Banka. The Bank's loan would not be eligible for either subsidy. The Federal
subsidy effectively reduces the interest rate charged to the project by the
Privredna Banka to 4%.  The subsidy of 1% from the Republic of Croatia
is paid direct and reduces the effective interest rate paid by the project
to 3% on the local loan. It has been agreed that the Republic of Croatia
interest subsidy received by Minceta in respect of the loan capital provided
by Privredna Banka and relent to Babin Kuk will be passed on to Babin Kuk in
full at least until the end of the first three full years of the operation
of the project. At the conclusion of this period one-half of the Republic
subsidy will be passed on hy Minceta for a further three full years of opera-
tion. Thereafter Minceta may retain the subsidy in full or in part unless
the financial condition or profitability of Babin Kuk warrants otherwise.
A table showing the effect of the subsidies is included in Annex 5.
7.06      The Yugoslav interest rate subsidy system for investments in the
enlargemnent of tourist accommodation facilities is similar to that used by
other major Mediterranean tourism countries, including France, Italy, Spain,
Greece and Morocco.  The area is the center of European mass tourism, which
requires low-cost facilities and where non-commercial accommodation in-
fluences the prices that can be charged by hotels. The subsidy system is
based on the justification that success in attracting a(dditional foreign
tourists and thus achieving a significant increase in net foreign exchange
earnings is of much broader benefit to the economy as a whole than indicated
by the financial return to the project itself.  The subsidies are thus a
means of creating financial conlditions favorable enough to attract invest-
ments for projects which have a relatively modest financial, but a satis-
factory economic return nnd give rise to sizable external economic benefits.
As already noted, the use of these subsidies is now widespread throughout
the Mediterranean basin and cannot he abandoned by any one country without
running thie risk that some of its new hotels will be unable to compete suc-
cOssfully.  These considerations apply to thie competitive position of the
Bahin Kuk project vis--.--vis both its local an(d foreign competitors.



- 20 -
7. 07     It is proposed that the IBRI) loan be made directly to BKIITC for
a term of 22 years, including a grace period of five years to cover the
construction period and the first operating year. Minceta has agreed to
guarantee the loan.
B. Financial Forecasts
7.08      Forecasts of annual earnings, financial position and cash flow
for the first 20 years of the project are presented in Annex 5, together
with details of operating assumptions. Projected earnings are summarized
below:
Projected Annual Earnings
(US$ Million)
Year Ending December 31:                  1975    1976    1977    1980    1990
Operating Year                               1        2        3        6      16
Average Annual Hotel Occupancy (%)          47       54       57       57      57
Total Sales                               17.7    21.3    22.4    22.4    22.4
Net Profit before Interest                 0.9      3.0      3.4     3.7      3.7
As Z of Original Investment /1             1.9      6.0      6.9     7.4      7.4
/1   Operating profit before interest but after depreciation and deferred
expenses as % of invested capital of US$49.91 million.
7.09      A detailed financial analysis was made by Kienbaum-Steigenberger,
consultants to Minceta, on the basis of local cost and revenue estimates
prepared by the Institute of Econornics and Planning, Duhrovnik. This has
been revised by the Bank. The assumptions and estimates used are consistent
with both local and international experience. The tariffs are approximately
the same as the 1970 rates charged in comparable Dubrovnik hotels adjusted
to reflect the price increases expected by 1975 when the project opens. The
1975 full pension tariff would range from about USSlO.O to US$24.0 depending
on hotel class and season. The operating costs have been estimated on a con-
servative basis.
7.10      The financial rate of return on the project, estimated on a dis-
counted cash flow basis for the first 25 years of operation, would be 9.93%
In the event that the project opening were to be delayed by one year, the
financial rate of return would be reduced to 8.93%. Assuming an occupancy
level of 54%7 instead of 57 in the typical year, (i.e., from 1977 onward)
the financial rate of return would be 9.17. The impact of these alternate
assumptions on the projected cash flow indlicates that the project should be
able without difficulty to meet its debt service obligations.



- 21 -
7.11      A forecast of Balance Sheets and financial ratios is summarized
below:
Projected Balance Sheets and Financial Ratios
(US$ million)
Year Ending December 31:                  1975    1976    1q77    1930    1990
Operating Year:                             1        2        3       6       16
Current Assets                            6.05    8.52    3.99    7.62    5.40
Current Liabilities                       4.31    5.16    4.95    4.98    6.16
Net Working Capital                       1.74    3.36    4.04    2.64   (0.76)
Total Net Assets                         47.99   47.0S   46.04   42.71   29.13
Long Term Debt                           38.20   36.78   35.31   30.57    9.34
Original Equity & Retained Earnings    9.79   10.30   10.73   12.14   19.29
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage            -      2.3:1   1.7:1   1.7:1   1.7:1
Long--Tern Debt/Equity Ratio             80:20   78:22   77:23   72:29   34:66
7.12      Equity capital and loan capital from Minceta will be provided
equally until the cash equity capital reaches the agreed figure of US$8 mil-
lion equivalent. It has been agreed that Minceta will receive 45% of the
net profits after providing for interest payments and depreciation. BKHTC
will not be liable for taxes on profits. The balance of net profits would
under Yugoslav law be available for retention in the business or for distri-
bution to the workers in the enterprise.
7.13      In view of the heavy reliance on loan financing normal in the case
of new enterprises in Yugoslavia, the build-up of etquity from retained earn-
ings is desirable. During negotiations agreement has been reached that not
less than 207 of the net profits would be retained in the business.
7.14      With the build-uip of retaine(d earnings, BTIITC may find opportunities
for profitable investment elsewhere.  It has been agreed that capital expendi-
tures, other than for replacement, in excess of US$1oo,n00 equivalent will be
made only after consultation with the Bank.
7.15      Accotunts and financial statements will be kept by BK1ITC in a form
acceptable to the Bank. Audite(d financial statements in a form acceptable
to the Bank will he presentedl to the Bank within four months of the close
of the financial year.



- 22 -
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, the terms of the contract between Min-
ceta and BKTIHC were agreed andI assurances were obtained that:
(i)  any change in the relationship between Minceta and BICTITC
or in the terms of the contract between them would be
subject to approval by the Bank (para. 6.05);
(ii)  a pre-qualification system prepared by the consulting
architects and engineers and acceptable to the Bank
would be employed to ensure that only qualifiedI con-
tractors would submit bids for construction contracts
(para. 3.21);
(iii) architects and engineers, acceptable to the Bank, would
be appointed to design the project and supervise its ex-
ecution, with terms of reference and on conditions approved
by the Bank (para. 3.22);
(iv) a construction office would be set up, headed by a full-time
construction manager acceptable to the Bank, and with ade-
quate supporting staff for the execution of the proj-
ect (para. 3.23);
(v)  before the start of operations, a plan would be prepared
for review by the Bank for the transport of guests between
Babin Kuk and the old city (para. 4.04);
(vi)  the appointment of the Director of BKHTC would be sub-
ject to the approval of the Bank (para. 6.06);
(vii) Management consuiltants acceptable to the Bank would be
employed by the borrower with terms of reference and on
conditions approved by the Bank (para. 6.12);
(viii) Minceta and/or Privredna Banka would provide funds needed
to meet cost over-runs (para. 7.04);
(ix)  the equjity capital due from Minceta to BKITC would be
provided equally with loan capital until the agreed
US$8.0 million equivalent of equity has been provided
by Minceta (para. 7.12);
(x)  not less than 20% of the net profits would be added to
retained earnings annually (para. 7.13);
(xi)  capital expenditures, except for replacement, in excess
of US$100,000 equivalent would be committed only after
consultation with the Bank (para. 7.14).



- 23 -
8.02      During loan negotiations, the guarantor has agreed to provide
assurances that:
(i)  the first stage of the expansion program for Dubrovnik
airport would be completed not later than December 31,
1974 (para. 4.02);
(ii)  the extension and improvement of those sectors of
Dubrovnik's water and sewerage systems affecting Babin
Kuk would be completed in time for the opening of the
project (para. 4.03);
(iii)  the road improvements in Dubrovnik required to improve
access to Babin Kuk from the rest of Duhrovnik and the
Adriatic highway would be completed not later than
December 31, 1974 (para. 4.04);
(iv)  a study to nropose solutions to the problem of peak sea-
son traffic congestion in Dubrovnik would be commissioned,
the consultants and their terms of reference to be ap-
proved by the Bank (para. 4.04);
8.03      During negotiations the following conditions of effectiveness of
tho proposed loan have been agreed:
(i)  the Director of BKMTC shall have heen appointed (para. 6.06);
(ii)  staff members of the construction office shall have been
employed and have taken up their duties (para. 3.23);
(iii) conclusion of contracts between the borrower and the
architectural and engineering consultants and the man-
agement consultants (para. 3.22 and 6.12);
(iv)  confirmation of the borrower's clear title to 73 ha of
the project site (para. 3.03).
8.n4      It has also been agreed that the borrower's failure to acquire
the remaining 6 ha oF the project site by June 30, 1972 can lead to the
proposc(1 loan being suspended and that no contracts for construction will
he awarded until all the land has been acquired.
8.0n      With the inclicatedl asstirances, the proposed project provides a
snitable basis for a Bank loan of IBS$20.0 million for a term of 22 years
including a 9 year grace periocl.






Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
AVERAGE MONTHLY TEMERATURES IN SELECTED MEDITERRANEAN RESORTS
(in degrees fahrenheit)
Month       Barcelona      S.Remo      Nice     Venice      Rijeka     Dubrovnik
January       49.0          48.0      48.5       39.5        41.5        48.4
February      51.5          48.5       49.0      42.0        43.1        48.4
March         55.0          51.5       52.5      47.5        46.9        51.h
April         58.5          58.5      57.5       57.5        53.6        57.2
May           64.5          62.5       63.0      64.0        62.1        64.o
June          71.0          69.0       69.0      71.0        68.9        71.8
July          76.0          75.0       75.5      75.0        72.7        75.9
August        76.0          74.0       74.5      74.0        72.5        76.3
September     69.5          70.5       70.0      69.5        66.9        70.9
October       63.0          63.0       62.5      57.5        58.5         63.9
November      55.0          55.5       55.0      48.5        49.8        56.8
December      50.5          50.5       49.5      42.o        45.5        52.0
Source: Meteorological Office, Great Britain.
(Air Ministry)
I)ecember, 19'70



YUGOSLAVIA: BABIN KUK TOURISM PFOJECT
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BREAKDWN OF COST
No.                                                                                               Cost of                                       Cost of      rost of Manage-             TOTAL
of                                       Area 2    Cost of Site       Cost of        Cost of     rofessional  Cost of Physical Facilities        Prject       ent and Staff
Units        Type of Accommodation        (in m )   Development    Construction    Equiplment      Services                       (in Yug.  Administrstion       Training                     (in Yug.
(in US$'OOO)   (in US$IO00)   (in US$000) (in US$'000)  (in US$'000)         Din'OOO)    (in Us$000)    (in !JS$'000)   (in US$'30)   Din.'000)
HOTELS
1      Luxury Class Hotel (300 beds)    9,500          368            A l,600           400          300           2,668
a      Class A Hotel (1700 beds)        44,500         963            5,600           1,100        1,Om            8,663
4      Class B Hotel (3000 beds)        58,000       1,249            7,500           1,700        1,200          1.1,60
Sub-Total                 112,000        2,58e0          14,700           3,200       .2,500         22,980          344,700
HOUSING
50      Dwelling Units (150 beds)                                       450                                           450
1      Hostel (350 beds)                                               140                                           140
Sub-Total                                                  590                                           590           8,850
ANCIILA  FACILITIES
14      Restaurants                       2,500         110             600              360          100           1,170
22      Shops                             2,500         120             700              120          100           1,040
Public Facilities                 2,000          90             500              120          100             810
Service Facilities               11.000         530           2,580              860          400           4,370
Sub-Total                   18,000         850           4,380            1,460          700          7,390          110,850
Total before Contingencia    130,000        3,430          19,670            4,660        3,200          30,960         464,400            430          9330           32,320       434,800
Physical Increase                               510           1,910              700                        3,120                                                         3,120
Price Increase                                  630           5,280            1,130                        7,040                            '5           270            7,486
Total Contingencies                      1,lib           7,190            1,830                       10,160         152,4Lo           1:5           270           1C,           058,700
CUMULATIVE TOTAL                         a,570          26,860            6,490        3,200          41,120         616,800            580        _,230            42,900       643,500
Foreign Exchange Component %                    20.7%           20.7%            67.6%        62.5%                  31.3%                    22.4%        61.7%                  32.1%
Total Foreign Exchange                            950           5,550            4,390        2,000          12,890         193,350            130          7LLO           13,760        206,400
Estimated Disburseent of Ioan
by Sector, %                               31.6%           31.6%            67.6%        62.5%                 39.7%                     22.4         c;.-S                  40.'%
Total Disbursement                              1,445            8,495           4,390        2,000          16,330         288,950            130           7             17,230        258,00C
Interest and Other Charges
during Construction                                                                                                                                                    2 ,30;       42,00
TOTAL OAN_                                                                                                                                                            2 ', OO      300,000
*  Excluding land and working capital
February, 1971



YUGOSLAVIA: BABIN KUK TOUFISH PROJFCT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE-S
Professional                                                      Project          Staff Training
S.ie Develoment         Buildings                Fees              Equipment               Housing         Administration         Assistance
1C;al    Foreign    Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign              Tota
Allowanzes for
Physical Increase                                    10%                     _                   15%                   _                     _
Allowances for
Price Increase            '7%       12%        26%         19%               _            26%         19%       26%         19%      36%         26%       36%         26%
Total Cost Before
^o ent ien                 2.6S       .7       14..95       4.13      1.20        2.00      1.45       3.21       .46        .13       .33         .10       .34        .59         32.32
(US$ nillior;s)
Allowances for
.>sical Increase           *.0        .11       1.50         .41       -            -        .22        .48       -           -         -          -         -           -           3.12
Sub-total
(US$ millions)          3.29        .55      16.45       4.54       1.20        2.00     1.67        3.69       .46        .13       .33         .10       .34        .59        35.44
Allowances for
Price Increase
(US$ millions)            .. .3               L.28        .86        -           -         .43        .70       .12         .02      .12         .03       .12         .15         7.46
Total, Including
on ting ies
(US  millios            3.62        .95      20.73       5.40       1.20        2.00     2.10        4.39       .58         .15       .45        ,13       .46         .74        42.90
0
J yH
January 1971



Table )
YUGOSLAVIA:   Babin Kuk Tourism Project
ESTIMATED SCIIEDULE OF DISBURSEMINTS
(iricludinfg interest on construction and! other charres)
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter             at end of Quarter
US$ looo
1971-1972
December 31, 1971                                 30
March 31, 1972                                    386
June 30, 1972                                    927
1972-1973
September 30, 1972                             1,548
December 31, 1972                              2,179
March 31, 1973                                 3,822
June 30, 1973                                  4,595
1973-1974
September 30, 1973                             5,298
December 31, 1973                              6,011
March 31, 1974                                 7,193
June 30, 1974                                  9,284
1974-1975
September 30, 1974                            11,878
December 31, 1974                             13,594
March 31, 1975                                15,430
June 30, 1975                                 16,512
1975-1976
September 30, 1975                            18,221
December 31, 1975                             20,000
January, 1971



YUGOSLAVIA:  Babin Kuk Tourism Project                 Table 5
Growth of Tourist Traffic to Dubrovnik, 1961-1969
('000 bednights)
-1961-                -1967-                -1969 -
Number   Percent      Number   Percent      Number   Percent
Domestic      310.6      58.6        185.6     19.5        262.6     22.7
Foreign       219.0      41.4        763.8     80.5        895.2     77.3
Total         530.0    100.0         949.4    100.0       1157.8    100.0
Table 6
Development of Dubrovnik's Accommodation Capacity, 1965-1969
(Number of Beds)
-1965-  -1966-  -1967-  -1968 -  - 1969-
Hotel Class A                       505       889        889     1,016      1,295
Hotel Class B                     1,171     1,253      1,365     1,385    1l,425
Hotel Class C                       600       637        591       631        504
Total                      2,276      2,779     2,845      3,032     3,224
Supplementary Accommodation
Private Rooms                    n.a.       6,642      n.a.      n.a.       7,040
Other                            n.a.       4,152      n.a.      n.a.       3,633
Total                                10,794                         10,673
December 9, 1970






YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
MIN'ETA'S FINAN'IAL RECORD OF GROWTH 1962-9
(Income Statements)
(Din Million)
1962    %    1963    %    1964    %    1965    %    1966    %    1967    %    1968    %    1969_               Trend Index
Gross Sales (after rebates)          26.7   100   33.0   100   43.7   100   62.5  102.3  80.1  113.5  100.7 109.7  136.1 108.5  160.4  110.9             601
Less Sales Tax.                              -      -      -                   1.14    2.3   9.5   13.5    8.9   9.7   10.7   8.5   15.7   10.9           -
Net Sales                            26.7   100   33.0   100   43.7   100   61.1  100.0  70.6  100.0   91.8 100.0  125.4 100.0  144.7  100.0             542
Cost of Sales                        22.1    82.8 27.1    82.1 35.6    81.5 51.8   84.8  56.9   80.6   70.6  76.9  103.8  82.8  119.8   82.8             542
Gross Margin                          4.6    17.2  5.9    17.9  8.1    18.5  9.3   15.2  13.7   19.4   21.2  23.1   21.6  17.2   24.9   17.2             541
Operating Cos-ts                      2.8    10.5  2.8      8.5  4.4      10.1 6.7   11.0   9.5   13.5   13.1  14.3   14.4  11.5   17.8   12.3           636
N-t Operating income                  1.8     6.7  3.1      9.4  3.7       8.4 z.6    4.2   4.2    5.9    8.1   8.8    7.2   5.7    7.1    4.9           394
ZxtraordLna,rf Income                 0.5      1.9  0.2     0.6  0.4       0.9 0.4    0.7   0.5    0.7    0.9   1.0    2.1   1.7    5.2    3.6         1,040
Total Net Inco. e                     2.3     8.6  3.3    10.0  4.1        9.3 3.0    4.9   4.7    6.6    9.0   9.8    9.3   7.4   12.3    8.5           535
Less: Interest                        0.3     1.1  0.3      0.9  0.3       0.7 1.0    1.6   1-5    2.1    2.5   2.7    3.1   2.5    4.0    2.8         1,333
Deoreciation                   0.1         0.4  0,1  .3  0.1       0.2 0.?    0.3   0.3    o.14    0.8   0.9    1.0   0.8    1.1    0.7        1,100
Net income before Taxes               1.9      7.1  2.9     8.8  3.7       8.4 1.8    3.0   2.9   44.1    5.7   6.2    5.2   4.1    7.2    5.0           379
Taxes and Contributions-              1.6     6.0  2.4      7.3  2.9       6.6 0.3    0.5   0.5    0.7    1.8   2.0    1.6   1.3    1.5    1.0            94
ait r--0oft                           0.3     1.1  0.5      1.5  0.8      1.8 1.5    2.5   2.4   3.-4    3.9   4.2    3.6   2.8    5.7    4.0         1,900
1/ In 15o9 tr.e accounting basis was changed from invoices paid to invoices including receivables, so that 1969 is not strictly comparable.
2/ In 1965 the basis of laxation was changed with the introduction of the retail sales tax which is passed on to customers.
December, 1970



YJGOSLAVIA:   Babin  Kclk 'ou-Lisr  Project
Mincet.a  . Ba.Thnce  1c   (  962-69
(D)in   million)
Trer.d 'nd--x
1J7{. 2         1J563    %      i,6L4    d    1 965     %    1966      %    1967       %    1963   %    1769    %    1962 -  L,)
A'.~
Carr,:it Aiscts                   I2.3   92.0      12.5 B9.3    17.5  83.6   28.9   S2.83  '0.1    71.0   62.2   79.2   82.5 v2.3  51.8 7LI.                     794
Long; Term As-zetE                 0.5   14.5       0.3    5.7      0.3    3.7    0.3    0.9   0.3        0.5    0.6    0.8    1 .'   1.1   7.7   7.0         1,50
Fix!,d Ass2ts                      0.      ' ! >    0.7    5.0    _        15.7    5.j  7    6-7  16.1    28.5   15.7   20.0           16.3  22.h  18.6       5,lOG
To+t'il Asscts                  11.2  lY.0       1      100.0    21.7   1 )0.0    - 210.00   6.5   100.0   78.5  10L.0  lC0.3 100.0 1   1i0.2                931
Current Liabilities                5.1   L5.5       7.3   52.1    11.5   53.0   21.5.  61.6  31.8    56.3   L5.8   62.2   63.1  67.9  63.1  57.4               1,237
Tpr, Ter.a Debt                    4.8   12.9       L.3   3'1.3     8.0   36.9    9.7   27.8  11.2    19.8   12.6   16.0   12.1  12.1  22.6  20.6                L71
-e.m.y                        ,1    11.6        1.9   13.6      2.2   10.,    .7   10.6  13.5    22 2   17.1   21.8   20.1  23.D  2_.2   2.0              1,362
11.2  i0.        1L.0  100.0    21.7  100.0   3!.9  100.0  56u   100.0   78.5  1O0.0  100.3 100.0 109.9 100.0                 931
December, 1970



Annex I
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Pro,ject
HOTEL SUBSIDIES
1.        From the en(d of World War II, a number of Puropean countries,
endowed with tourism potential and favorably situated vis-a-vis the
tourist originating markets, initiated a series of incentive schemes
desigrezd to direct private investment towards the enlargement of accom-
modat,ion capacity.  Table 1 presents a suImnary of tourism incentives
provided by selected European countries, grouped into the following
basic categories:  loans at ravorable interest rates, loan guarantees,
subsidies (grants) and fiscal incentives.
2.        Subsidles to the tourist industry reflect the desire of the
Governments concerned to net more foreign exchange than would accrue if
the i.ndustry's capacities and prices were determined only by market forces.
The Yugoslav authorities have fol-lowed the exarrnle otr other European
countries in providing such incentives for investment in tourism, and the
rapid expansion of hotel capacity in Yugoslavia durin&; the last decade has
been ru-werfulll.yv assisted by this incentive system.  Under the system the
TederaT Government, provides a subsidy to the banks of ,   in the case of
loans for tourist facilities with a term of 10-1-, years and 3.O for loans
of y(-2. years maturity, on condition that they do not charge interest
rates in excess of 6&.  This subsidy is made available from a Federal
tourism subsidy fund as a luumn sum advance. In the case of 25 year loans
this means that a sum equi.valent to about one-thlird the principal i.s paid
to '1'he banks prior to disbursemenit.  This subsidy has reportedly been
sufCicient during most, of the last few years to nermit some of Yugoslavia's
larger banks to secure sizeable medium term loans in the Eurodollar market
for rel ending for hotel, construction.  In addition to these Federal Govern-
Tnent subsidi.es to the Banks, the enterprises sponsoring and investing in
hotel. devel-opment receive subsidies from the Republic   governments, 1% in
the case o.' Cro;atia and 2t,-, in Slovenia.  The net result is that long
term loans by Yuigoslav banks For hotel construction carry an effective
interes,; rate of' 2j  arid 3,as contrasted writh 8,t'), the officcial interest
rate limllt aprlicable to most industrial mediumn and long term loams.
,fect,tve interest rat,es on these latter loans are reportedly substantially
higher, s:mnce in many cases compensating deposit balances have to be mai.n-
tnied.  The Yugosnliv tour;.sm subsidy system is thus based on the same
,'ustifi-caation use(d in many countri.es to defend the adoption of bonuses for
other "non-traditional" exports, I..e., that tlhe extra foreign exchange
resulting trom their production and sale abroad -ls o' greater value to the
economy as a who-le than the finanrcil ret;urrn to the investor (at least in
the short, and mecltn run).  IVn Principle, the suhsidy system should serve to
erniat;e the rprivat,e and nati.onal returns on th.r investMnent.



Annex 1
Page 2.
3.        In the case of Yugoslavia, the country's accommodation capacity
needed to be enlarged at costs which would permit it to compete succes-
sfully in the rapidly expanding European mass tourism market. Its main
competitors - Italy, Greece, Spain and some of the North African countries -
had already greatly increased their hotel capacity or were rapidly doing so.
4.        The widespread use of interest subsidies - and even outright
grants - to lower the cost of construction of new hotels reflects the
fact that there is a limit to the rates new hotels can charge since they
have to compete with older facilities often constructed at lower real
costs and which have already depreciated a good part of their original
plant. This consideration applies with special force to a relative late-
comer in the expansion of accommodation for European mass tourism like
Yugoslavia.
5.        There is room for discussion whether the form and extent of the
present Yugoslav system to encourage the construction of new hotels is
the most appropriate or whether a more limited and selective form of sub-
sidization might be preferable. For example, the system subsidizes inter-
est rates heavily during the entire repayment period of long term loans,
even though it is not clear that this is necessary after, say, the first
ten years of operation. It may also be argued that interest rates of 5W%
and 3% on loans which are mostly denominated in Dinars and thus are not
readjustable with prices or exchange rates, are excessively low - result-
ing in negative real interest rates and an unnecessarily heavy burden on
the Federal and Republic Governments.  The Federal Government and the Repub-
lics are reportedly studying possible modifications of the system in the
light of experience. It is important that in carrying out these studies
and in any discussion between the Bank and Yugoslavia concerning the sub-
sidies the following be carefully considered: (i) the key role which the
subsidies have played and are playing in the expansion of hotel accommoda-
tion and (ii) the need to consider the Yugoslav system in relation to the
arrangements in competing Mediterranean tourist countries - including such
old-established ones as France and Italy - for subsidizing the construction
of new tourist facilities.



Annex 1
Page 3
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project         Table 1
Government Aid to Hotels in Various European Countries in 1969
Country     Loans at   Guarantee    Subsidies    Fiscal Incentives
Fav. Interest o  Loans      (Grants)
Rates
Austria         x           x            xl)               x
France          x           -             1)               x
Greece          x                  ..                      x
Italy           x           -            xl)               x
Portugal        x           x            x                 x
Spain           x
Turkey          x          ..                              x
Yugoslavia      x          ..            xl)               x
Source: Information supplied by OECD Member countries and Yugoslavia
in reply to the annual questionnaire of the OECD Tourism
Comriittee.
(x)   =   existing
(-)   =   non existing
(..)  =   no information available
(1)   =   a subsidy to help cover interest charges is granted






Annex 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
EXTERNAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1.        The recent expansion of tourism in the Dubrovnik area has tended
to strain the commune's infrastructure facilities. There is need for more
expeditious handling of the flow of passengers and baggage passing through
the air terminal; the access roads linking the Adriatic Highway with the
area south east of the old city and the main streets leading from the new
harbor area to the old city are subject to severe traffic congestion dur-
ing the peak tourist season; at the same time, while Dubrovnik's centuries
old sewerage system has been expanded to service new hotel and commercial
facilities, the system discharges untreated sewerage into the sea at vari-
ous points, resulting in heavy pollution in the port area and significant
contamination even along some parts of the coast line used for bathing
and other recreational purposes.
2.        It is evident that the planned rapid expansion of tourism facil-
ities, of which the Babin Kuk complex will be a key component, cannot help
but aggravate some of these problems. Indeed, the success of Babin Kuk as
a project and the preservation of Dubrovnik as Yugoslavia's most valuable
tourism asset requires timely action on the part of the local authorities
to expand and improve the area's infrastructure facilities.
Airport Facilities
3.        On the basis of reasonable traffic forecasts, it is estimated
that by 1980, peak hour aircraft movement and passenger arrivals will be
more than three times those experienced during the 1970 tourist season.
".Airport Dubrovnik", the autonomous, financially self-supporting municipal
enterprise in charge of the airport, is developing a comprehensive program
for staged expansion of the airport facilities with the help of competent
consultants. The first phase of this program, designed to accommodate
expected traffic flows until at least 1980, envisages alteration and ex-
pansion of the existing terminal, increasing the number of aircraft apron
parking positions, and lengthening the runway. Except for the runway ex-
tension, the need for which is debatable and should be further reviewed,
this program, estimated to cost about us$8.0 million, seems well conceived.
Water Supply
4.        Based on present and projected demand, it appears that while
the present source of water will be adequate for many years to come, ad-
ditional transmission and pumping capacity with limited treatment will
be needed by mid-1975. The cost of these facilities, for which the en-
gineering studies are near completion, is estimated at US$1.0 million. It
is likely that at most a two year period will be required for construction.



Annex 2
Page 2.
Sewerage System
5.        For the success of the Babin Kuk tourism project, taken by
itself, it is essential that the waters along the northern coastline
of the Babin Kuk peninsula, where swimming areas are to be located, be
free from contamination. To ensure this, the section of the municipal
sewerage system which discharges untreated sewerage into the city's
new harbor area will have to be reconstructed to provide for adequate
treatment and an appropriate marine outfall. To safeguard Dubrovnik
as a prime tourism area, the city's entire sewerage system needs to be
extended and improved as soon as possible. The Bank has indicated to
the Yugoslav authorities that it might be willing to finance in part
Dubrovnik's sewerage improvement program, the total cost of which is
estimated to be about US$8.0 million. Technical studies by Yugoslav
consultants are nearing completion. They will have to be reviewed
for completeness. Further studies of coastal currents and ocean
stratification factors may prove niecessary, prior to project appraisal,
which may involve retaining additional outside consultants.
Access to Babin Kuk and Urban Transportation
6.        A careful review of the road system in the immediate vicinity
of the proposed tourism complex at Babin Kuk carried out by consultants,
indicates that the existing roads will be able to handle the additional
traffic likely to be generated for many years to come. Access to the
construction site is now possible over a good, paved road and the pro-
posed internal circulation and parking pattern for Babin Kuk is well
designed. A second access route to the site and improved access from
Babin Kuk to the old city can be provided by carrying out relatively
minor reconstruction and resurfacing of part of the Republic, Marshall
Tito and Iva Vajnovica streets, the construction of a short ramp con-
necting Vladimira Nazora and Marshall Tito streets and through pro-
vision of off-street parking facilities for the residential area adjacent
to the boulevard entrance to Babin Kuk. These improvements would involve
an estimated cost of less than US$1.0 million equivalent.
7.        The prospective guests of Babin Kuk, of whom about 75% are
expected to arrive by air, will be able to travel to and from the air-
port by bus in reasonable time even during periods of relative congestion
during the peak tourist season, since it is possible to bypass most of
the urban area by using the northern access road between the city and
the Adriatic highway.  The terrain between the built-up area of Dubrovnik
and that highway is difficult and steep and any widening of the access
roads will be quite expensive. Such improvements are much more important
for the existing hotels south east of the old city than for Babin Kuk.
8.        The existing peak tourist season congestion on Dubrovnik's main
streets (except in the old fortress city, which is closed to general traf-
fic) is bound to be intensified once Babin Kuk is opened. The 5,000 guests
will want to visit the rest of the city and especially the old city for



Annex 2
Page 3.
shopping, sightseeing and to participate in the cultural events during
the summer festival. Most of its 2,000 employees will live in the
rest of Dubrovnik. Their daily trips to and from Babin Kuk, those by
visitors and service vehicles will further increase the traffic flow.
Existing plans to deal with this problem call for costly widening and
reconstruction of main traffic arteries, construction of increased
parking facilities in the very heart of the urban area adjacent to the
entrances to the old city and a very limited increase of the area where
private vehicles are to be banned. This approach would at best prevent
present congestion from getting even more unmanageable while endanger-
ing the unique character of the city and throwing a heavy financial
burden on the municipality since even the top priority improvements
would cost in excess of US$7.0 million equivalent. Moreover, it would
not ensure the guests of Babin Kuk of reasonably satisfactory access
to the old city.
9.        Under these circumstances, a different approach to the problem
of peak season traffic congestion is needed which would envisage the ban-
ning of most outside private vehicles from a major part of the urbanized
area, the development of special, convenient transportation services in
the form of buses, mini-buses and motor boats and the siting and construct-
ion of major parking facilities near the entrances to the urban area from
the Adriatic highway. In developing such an approach, the closest co-
operation between the hotel industry and the municipality, and the assist-
ance of urban transportation experts will be required.






Annex 3
Page 1.
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
THE MARKET
Dubrovnik's Position in Yugoslavian Tourism
1.        The uniqueness of its scenic, recreational and cultural resources
places Dubrovnik in a special category with respect to Yugoslav tourism.
2.        Dubrovnik is one of the oldest Yugoslav tourist resorts.  Its
reputation as an international tourist destination dates back to the very
origin of modern tourism, in the last decades of the nineteenth century.
Its first "tourist" hotels, such as Petka, de la Ville and Imperial were
built during that period for a wealthy international clientele attracted to
the area, particularly in the winter time. About 60 hotels were operating
in the area by 1938. In the same year, tourist bed-nights in Dubrovnik
stood at 413,000, two-thirds of which were accounted for by foreign visitors.
At the present time Dubrovnik is among the leading sea resorts in Yugoslavia,
being surpassed in terms of tourist bed-nights only by Porec, on the Istrian
coast.
3.        Dubrovnik is a select tourist center.  The participation of foreign
visitors - wealthier on the average than domestic visitors - in the total
traffic is far higher in Dubrovnik than in most other Yugoslav tourist resorts.
Furthermore, the nationality structure of foreign visitors to Dubrovnik appears
to be affected more by the economic conditions of the originating countries
than by their geographical proximity to Yugoslavia.l/ Dubrovnik's supply
matches this special type of demand. The ratio of A class hotel capacity
to total hotel capacity is far higher in Dubrovnik than in the average
Yugoslav seaside resort. Because of the selectivity of its supply and demand,
Dubrovnik ranks in top position among Yugoslav seaside resorts in terms of
average daily expenditure by tourists.
4.        Despite Dubrovnik's relatively high prices, and the process of
"democratization" currently affecting international tourism, not only has its
tourism demand grown faster than in most other Yugoslav seaside resorts during
tihe 'sixties but it has recently been ahead of supply.
5.        The fact that Dubrovnik's "tourist season" is longer than that of
the average tourist resort along the Adriatic coast contributes to the
comparatively better utilization of its accommodation capacity. In 1969
D)ubrovnik's hotels experienced an average rate of bed occupancy of about 62%,
well above that of hotels on the Slovenian coast (35%), in Venice (36%) and
in Rimini (25%). Although Dubrovnik's hotels reach occupancy levels of above
100% in the "peak" months of the summer season, the lack of additional
accommodation thwarts the demand of a considerable number of potential tourists -
5,000 in 1969 according to the records of a single travel agency.
J/  Italy and Austria, the major suppliers of Dubrovnik's foreign traffic
from among neiglhboring countries, actually rank after West Germany,
thle U.K., the NetherlaTnds and the U.S.A.



Annex 3
Page 2.
6.        Dubrovnik's tourist industry is outstanding niot only by national
standards but even when compared with the tourist industries of the other
resorts existing in the locality. Given the substantial differences which
exist between Dubrovnik's tourist market and that of the other resorts in
the bcality with regard to type, rates and utilization of accommodation,
as well as in the nationality composition and average daily expenditure of
visitors (see Table 1), the two markets are, in fact, completely distinct.
Development of Dubrovnik's Tourist Industry
7.        For political reasons, the recovery of the tourist trade was
slow in the aftermath of World War II and through the 'fifties. On the
whole, not until 1959 was Dubrovnik able to catch up with its pre-war level
of bed-nights. In the 'sixties, however, the rapid general expansion of
the international tourist market, and the improved relations between
Yugoslavia and the bulk of western countries, caused a remarkable revival
of Dubrovnik's tourist industry.
Development of Supply
8.        No information is available on the development of Dubrovnik's
tourist supply in the first part of the 'sixties. During the period
1965-69, hotel beds increased from 2.276 to 3.224 while supplementary
accommodation capacity remained about the same (see Table 2).
9.        The entire increase in hotel capacity took place in A and B class
hotels, the capacity of C hotels having declined slightly. This fact, and
the increasingly greater proportion of hotel capacity to total accommodation
capacity, clearly shows that Dubrovnik is in the process of accentuating its
"exclusive" character.
10.       It is worth noting that during this period the increase in hotel
capacity in the town area (+42%) was much slower than in the other resorts
of the Commune (+292%). Despite the comparatively better utilization rate
enjoyed by the town hotels (see para. 20 ahead), many entrepreneurs were
probably discouraged from building new hotels in the town area because of
the increasing scarcity of land and beach space.
11.       The table herebelow describes the present (1969) distribution of
Dubrovnik's accommodation capacity by type and class:



Annex 3
Page 3.
No. of Beds as
No. of Rooms      No. of Beds       a Percentage
of Total
"A" Class                   816             1,295              40.2
"B" Class                   779             1,425              44.2
"C" Class                   232               504              15.6
Sub-Total           1,827              3,224             100.0
Other Accommodation
Private Rooms             3,492             7,040               65.9
Other                       -               3,633               34.1
Sub-Total           3,492            10,673              100.0
12.       The length of the operating period of Dubrovnik's accommodations
is affected by their type and class. "A" hotels are open year-round,
while most of B accommodations close during two or three months in winter.
The operating period of both C hotels and supplementary accommodations is
generally limited to seven months, from April to October. Thanks to its
longer operating period and better utilization rate, the hotel industry
has the lion's share of total traffic (83% in terms of bed-nights in 1969)
despite its smaller capacity as compared with supplementary accommodation.
13.       The fluctuation of hotel rates during the year defines, if only
broadly, three seasons in Dubrovnik: a high season which goes from the
beginning of July to the end of September; a mid-season including June and
October; a low season covering the remaining seven months of the year. The
difference in hotel rates from one season to the other is remarkable. In
fact, mid-season and low season tariffs are respectively about 25% and 50%
off those in the high season. Given the high occupancy levels at present
enjoyed in the months of April and May (see para. 21 following) the "shift"
of these two months from low to mid-season appears advisable as regards
the future.
14.       A sharp difference in standards of quality!!, tariffs, length of
operating period and development trends leads to the identification of two
distinct markets of supply - the first composed of A and B class hotels
and the second of C hotels andl supplementary accommodation.
The Development of Demand
15.       Because of the proimpt response of the market to such favorable
events as the increase in accommodation capacity, the completion of an
1/  Supplementary accommodation and C hotels, for instance, do not
generally have heating iEacilities.



Annex 3
Page 4.
international airporti/(1962) and the opening of the South-Adriatic highway
(1965), the development pace of foreign traffic to Dubrovnik stepped up
considerably starting at the beginning of the 'sixties. Over the period
1961-69 the number of foreign visitor bed-nights in all kinds of accommodations
rose from 219,000 to 895,000, at an average annual growth rate of 19%.
16.       During the period 1961-67, the rise in prices caused by the pressure
of foreign demand on Dubrovnik's supply induced an increasing proportion of
comparatively poorer Yugoslav tourists to seek cheaper accommodation elsewhere.
Hence, a decline in the number of domestic visitor bed-nights (from 311,000 to
185,000) and a dramatic change in the relative importance of domestic and
foreign visitors in the composition of Dubrovnik's traffic were observed during
this period. More recently, however, the trend shown by domestic traffic in
the years 1961-67 has inverted itself, possibly as a result of improved
economic conditions in Yugoslavia (see para. 48 ahead). In the last two years
the number of national visitor bed-nights rose from 185,000 to 263,000 and
their ratio to total visitor bed-nights increased slightly.
- 1 9 6 1 -             - 1 9 6 7 -              - 1 9 6-9
No. of                  No. of                   No. of
Bed-nights       %      Bed-nights        %      Bed-nights       %
('000)                  ('000)                   ('000)
Domestic       310.6        58.6       185.6        19.5        262.6        22.7
Foreign        219.4        41.4       763.8        80.5        895.2        77.3
Total      530.0       100.0        949.4       100.0      1,157.8'      100.0
17.       If the present analysis is restricted to hotel traffic, and foreign
and domestic components of said traffic are considered separately,; one can see
that these two components had in 1969 an inverse seasonality pattern.  In five
months of the year (January, February, March, October and November), the
number of domestic bed-nights is higher than that of foreign. Conversely,
foreign visitor bed-nights outnumber domestic in the remaining part of the
ycar (see Table 3).
18.       One of the salient results of the faster growth of domestkc tourist
traffic as compared with that of foreign in the years 1967-69, was an improve-
ment of the seasonality pattern of traffic to Dubrovnik during that period:
1/ Located at Cilipi, about 20 km. from the town.



Annex 3
Page 5.
Percent of Total Yearly Traffic in Terms of Bed-Nights
1967                  1969
High Season                            57.4                  53.5
Mid Season                             21.9                   21.6
Low Season                             20.7                  24.9
Total                            100.0                 100.0
Although it is difficult to make any accurate forecasts, it appears that
any further shift of the seasonality pattern in favor of the low season is
unlikely owing to a variety of traditional social "institutions" current
in the originating markets (e.g., school and certain industrial vacations
restricted to summer).
19.       As a whole, traffic to Dubrovnik increased between 1961 and 1969
from 530,000 to 1,158,000 bed-nights, at an annual growth rate of 10.3%.
As for hotel traffic in particular, bed-nights rose from 417,000 to 729,000
during the period 1965-69 - a total increase of 75%.
Comparison of Supply with Demand:
Dubrovnik's Accommodation Rate of Occupancy
20.       The table below indicates that as a result of the greater increase
of demand (+75%) vis-a-vis that of supply (+42%), the occupancy rate of
Dubrovnik's hotel accommodations improved considerably from 1965 to 1969,
rising from a level of 50% to a level of about 62%. During that period, A
class    hotels constantly showed a better occupancy rate than B hotels, and
the occupancy rate of B hotels was better than that of C hotels. The fact
that higher class hotels have maintained their level of occupancy well over
that of lower class hotels indicates that the upgrading process of Dubrovnik's
tourist supply was met by a similar process on the demand side.
(Percentages)
A Hotels         B Hotels          C Hotels         All Hotels
1965               68.5              44.1              44.7             50.1
1966               57.3              53.2              44.9             52.9
1967               53.4              49.9              49.9             51.0
1968               58.9              52.3              44.1             52.9
1969               73.7              56.6              46.3             61.9



Annex 3
Page 6.
21.       The table below, which relates to 1969 monthly data on selected1
Dubrovnik hotels, describes (i) the different rate of utilization of A and B
class hotel accommodation and (ii) the relative contribution of foreign and
domestic traffic to said utilization.
(Percentages)
A Class Hotels                      B Class Hotels
Occupancy   Occupancy    Total    Occupancy   Occupancy    Total
Ascribable  Ascribable              Ascribable  Ascribable
to Foreign  to Domestic             to Foreign  to Domestic
Traffic     Traffic                 Traffic      Traffic
January         13.0        52.9        65.9         0.3         10.6        10.9
February        16.8        32.5        49.3         0.2         11.1        11.3
March           34.5         22.5       57.0         2.6         13.3        15.9
April           58.3        12.3        70.6        38.7         13.1        51.8
May             79.6          8.4       88.0        73.3         10.8        84.1
June            85.5          3.4       88.9        96.6          2.3        98.9
July            90.3          3.8       94.1        93.7          3.0        96.7
August         100.1          2.6      102.7       100.4          3.1       103.5
September       92.5         3.2        95.7        96.2          2.8        99.0
October         75.1          8.1       83.2        41.9         12.6        54.5
November        20.7        13.8        34.5         0.5         12.0        12.5
December        17.7        15.0        32.7         0.1         12.5        12.6
Year            57.3        14.8        72.1./      45.4          8.9        54.32!
In as much as its seasonal pattern is inverted with respect to that of foreign
ta-urism, domestic tourism plays a determinant role in the extension of
Dubrovnik's tourism season to the winter months, even though it accounts for a
relatively small share of the total yearly traffic.
22.       Fron the figures presented in the preceding paragraphg the following
seas-*nal occupancyl2 levels may be derived for A and B class hotels:
1/ The A class hotel sample includes three hotels for a total of 838 beds, or
65% of total A class hotel accommoda-tion capacity. The B class hotel sample
ineludes five hotels for a total of 933 beds, or 65% of total B class hotel
a4zcommodation.
2/ Yearly occupancy of both A and B class sample hotels is somewhat lower than
that of the "'universe" (see table under para. 20 preceding).
3/ The seasons have been defined according to the new classification proposed
under para. 13 above).



Annex 3
Page 7.
(Percentages)
A Class Hotels l/                 B Class Hotels 1/
High Season                99.6                              103.8
Mid Season                 83.9                               74.7
Low Season                 49.4                               13.1
Year                  73.7                                56.6
23.       It should be noted that the occupancy levels indicated in the
preceding paragraph for B hotels relate to B hotels as a whole, irrespective
of their opening period. If, however, consideration is given only to B
hotels operating part of the year, the yearly occupancy levels arrived at
would be 51.3%.
The Composition of Demand by Originating Geographic Areas
24.       As indicated in paragraph 16 above, foreign and domestic visitors
at present account (in terms of bed-nights) for 23% and 77% respectively of
Dubrovnik's total traffic.
25.       No substantial change has occurred in the nationality composition
of foreign visitors to Dubrovnik in recent times. Western Europe retains
its post World War II position as Dubrovnik's major foreign traffic supplier.
In terms of bed-nights, its participation in this traffic was 87% in 1965 and
83% in 1969. For many years in the past, West Germany, the U.K. and the
Netherlands have ranked in first, second and third positions respectively,
among Western European countries. The "nights" spent in Dubrovnik by the
nationals of these three countries combined accounted for 56% of total bed-
nights in 1965 and for 46% in 1969. North America has increased its share
in Dubrovnik's foreign visitor bed-nights from 5.4% in 1965 to 9.5% in 1969.
The remaining 17% of Dubrovnik's 1969 foreign traffic is split between Eastern
European countries and non-European countries (U.S.A. and Canada excluded).
26.       Quite naturally, both demographic and geographical factors bear an
influence on the composition, by Republic of origin, of Dubrovnik's domestic
traffic.  Tourists from Serbia, the most populous among Yugoslav republics,
account for nearly 39% of Dubrovnik's domestic visitor bed-nights. The
second position (25%), however, is held by visitors from the Bosna-Hercegovina
Republic whose territory, although less populous than that of Croatia, is on
the average closer to Dubrovnik. Croatia comes third, with a 24% share of
Dubrovnik's "domestic" bed-night market. The remainder of this market (22%)
is accounted for by visitors from Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro.
I/ Figures have been sliglhtly adjusted to reflect the yearly occupancy of
the "universe" - i.e. the occupancy observed in 1969 in all A and B class
h-iotels existing in Dubrovnik (see footnote 2 on preceding page).



Annex 3
Page 8.
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF DEMAND
Major Demand Motivations: Business and Pleasure
27.       No adequate data is available for the calculation of the exact
breakdown between the pleasure and business-motivated components of
Dubrovnik's tourist traffic - a breakdown which is most important for the
purpose of the present analysis. The statement may, however, be made that
in 1969 business traffic is unlikely to have surpassed the level of 85,000
bed-nights, i.e. 7.3% of total traffic, or 10.9% of total hotel traffic, or
12.7% of A and B hotel traffic. This maximum value is arrived at by:
(a) adding (i) the monthly average of foreign visitqrs'
bed-nights registered in A and B class hotels -'in
the months of January and February 2/ (among the lows
for foreign traffic), and (ii) the monthly average of
domestic visitors' bed-nights registered at the same
hotels in the months of July and September 21 (among
the lows for domestic traffic);
(b) considering the sum total under (a) above as represen-
tative of the maximum value attained by business-
motivated tourism (both foreign and domestic) in each
month of the year.
28.       On the basis of information released directly by hotel managers
in Dubrovnik, the Mission has formed the opinion that the actual share of
business-motivated visitors in total A and B hotel traffic can, within the
limit indicated in the preceding paragraph (12.7%), be set at 7.5%.
Other Characteristics of the Demand
29.       Some up-to-date information on other traffic chatacteristics is
provided by two recent surveys conducted by Dubrovnik's Institute for Economics
and Planning. Carried out in the period August 15 to September 15, 1969,
the first deals with foreign tourism alone. The second survey taken between
December 15, 1969 and January 15, 1970 includes domestic tourism as well.
Given the period of the year in which they were carried out, these surveys
may be regarded as indicative only as far as peak and low season traffic
characteristics are concerned.
30.       A comparative analysis of these characteristics with respect to
both foreign and domestic traffic is presented herebelow:
1/  C class hotel traffic has been omitted from this calculation as balsirress-
men, for different reasons, tend to use almost exclusively, high standard
accommodation.
2/  The implicit assumption is made that business-motivated traffic tends to
distribute itself evenly throughout the year with the possible exceptions
of Dece-mber, July and August, when a number of business people become
vacationers..



Annex 3
Page 9.
Peak Season         Low Season
Foreign      Foreign   Domestic
(1) Distribution of Visitors
by Profession of Household Head:
Workers                                   10.2                      7.5
Employers                                 25.7                     37.5
Professional People and Artists           25.1                     42.5
Students                                   6.8                       -
Retired People                             3.7                     10.0
Other 1/                                  28.5                      2.5
Total                              100.0                    100.0
(2) Distribution of Visitors
by Mode of Travel
Organized Tours (Charters and IT)         30.0         10.9        10.0
Other Modes                               70.0         89.1        90.0
Total                              100.0         100.0      100.0
(3) Distribution of Visitors
by Way of Access
Air                                       65.9          65.4       17.5
Road                                      22.6          18.1       32.5
Sea                                        9.6         12.7          -
Rail                                       1.9           3.8       50.0
Total                              100.0         100.0      100.0
(4) Distribution of Visitors
by Length of Stay
1-10 Days                                37.8         47.2       50.0
10-15 Days                                43.3         41.2        50.0
16 and more                               18.9         11.6          -
Total                              100.0         100.0      100.0
(5) Average Daily Expenditure by
Type of Accommodation (US$)
Hotel A                                   15.2            -          -
Hotel B                                   11.2            -          -
Hotel C                                    7.6            -          -
Average all types of hotels               12.7            -          -
GCimping                                   4.5            -          -
Private Rooms                              5.5            -          -
Average all types of accommodation    11.1               8.6        6.2
1/ Including an "unknown" 10.2%.



Annex 3
Page 10.
TYPES OF MARKETS
31.       The information provided in the preceding sections indicates that
Dubrovnik's tourist industry is based on two primary types of market: a
winter market, characterized by the prevalence of domestic visitors and a
summer market of predominantly foreign composition.
Winter Market
32.       Because of the distance from their countries to Dubrovnik, the
majority of foreign tourists consider a trip to Dubrovnik worth while only
if they can stay there a minimum length of time - hence their tendency to
visit Dubrovnik during the period of their "main" vacation - a period which
for Europeans and North Americans generally runs from April to October.
Yugoslavs, on the other hand, may plan a trip to Dubrovnik for even a
relatively short stay.
33.       Aside from businessmen, the winter domestic market appears to be
composed of:
(i)  climate-seekers looking for a "ispell" from the severe
Yugoslav winters; Dubrovnik's mild climate and the fact
that it is closer to some of the major Yugoslav centers
(including Belgrade, Sarajevo and Titograd) lead to the
assumption of a heavy participation of said type of
tourist in Dubrovnik's winter traffic.
(ii) culture-motivated visitors and sightseers in general;
given their relative degree of indifference to season,
this type of visitor tends to go to Dubrovnik in the
"off season", when good accommodation is available at
moderate rates.
34.       The prevailing motivations (climate, sightseeing and culture), and
a definite preference for the very best type of accommodation available inli-
cate that the domestic winter demand is, in social if not economic terMs,-
an elite and status-conscious demand. This fact is also proven by the high
share accounted for by the "professional" group (45%) in the sociA-gcnPAQm1ic
composition of the aforesaid demand.
Summer Market
35.       Both the foreign and the domestic components of the supmer warket are
highly heterogeneous in motivation. Climatic conditions, cultural interests
and beaches all contribute to make Dubrovnik attractive to this market. however,
while sightseers and climate-seekers are more heavily represented in the "fringe"
months (April, May and October) beach-based tourists predominate in the peak
months. The difference in motivations also reflects on the visitor's average
length-of-stay, which in summer tends to be longer than in winter.
1/  In purely economic terms the foreign-dominated summer market is superior
than the winter market, as indicated by the difference in average daily
expeaditure (see para. 27 above).



Annex 3
Page 11.
36.       A further division can be made in the summer market between the
wealthier market for A and B hotels on the one hand and the poorer market
for C hotels and supplementary accommodation on the other. Thus far, this
distinction has not been very clear on the demand side; because of insuf-
ficient room in A and B class hotels a number of A and B class potential
visitors have had to redirect their demand towards the lower type of
accommodation - particularly in the peak months of the season. The distinction
will, however, become increasingly apparent parallel to the large increase in
first-class accommodation (L-A and B class hotels) scheduled for the next five
years (see para. 38 following).
37.       As a whole, the summer market can also be considered an elite
market, at least by European standards. The average distance of the major
tourist supplier markets and the considerable resultant proportion of air-
borne tourists support this particular classification.
MARKET PROSPECTS FOR THE BABIN KUK PROJECT
Planned Development of Dubrovnik's Accommodation Capacity
38.       There are no plans for expanding either the capacity of Dubrovnik's
existing supplementary accommodation or that of C class hotels. On the other
hand, based on projects at various stages of advancement, current estimates
indicate that Dubrovnik's L-A and B hotel capacity will develop over the next
five years as follows:
- Number of Beds -
Class L              Class A              Class B               Total
1969          -                   1,295                1,425                2,720
1970          -                   1,295                1,425                2,720
1971          -                   1,795                1,425               3,220
1972          -                   2,295                1,425                3,720
1973          -                   2,295                1,425               3,720
1974          800                 2,295                1,425               4,520
1975 1/     1,600                 4,695                4,425              10,720
39.       Consistent with past supply and demand trends, Dubrovnik will continue
to upgrade the quality of its accommodations. By 1975 the number of hotel beds
will reach approximately that of supplementary accommodation. As for the hotel
industry proper, the L class will appear for the first time on Dubrovnik's supply
market in 1974. It should be mentioned, incidentally, that this further improve-
ment of the quality of accommodation appears to be most appropriate in the case
of Dubrovnik, where the scarcity of land and beach space will most probably
prevent any substantial increase in accommodation capacity beyond the expected
1975 level.
L/ Includes Babin Kuk complex.



Annex 3
Page 12.
Babin Kuk Physical and Economic Competitiveness
40.       Because of its location within the town boundaries and yet near
the sea, the projected complex will be attractive to all kinds of tourists:
climate-seekers, sightseers, beach-motivated visitors and businessmen.
41.       Babin Kuk will be the first tourist complex to be built in
Dubrovnik, with the numerous financial and promotional advantages that this
will imply. From the market standpoint this will also have a favorable
impact. Given the size of its public facilities, Babin Kuk will be the most
suitable site in the Dubrovnik area for conventions, conferences and meetings -
a specialized segment of the market which has constantly been growing in
importance.
42.       Another specific advantage of Babin Kuk over other existing_and
planned accommodations is that of offering a great deal of space in general,
and beach space in particular. The resultant favorable balance between man-
made and environmental conditions will assure resident visitors of a relaxed
atmosphere in unspoiled natural surroundings - a combination appreciated by
an ever-increasing proportion of tourists, irrespective of their primary
motivations.
43.       The above-mentioned advantages of Babin Kuk over the competition
should, at the very least, balance out the disadvantage of its being located
farther from the old town. Given similar tariffs and lengths.of operating
periods, Babin Kuk's rate of occupancy.should not, therefore, fall short of
that of its direct competitors.
44.       Based on the hotel tariffs currently prevailing in-Dubrovik, l/
the table herebelow shows the rates (in 1970 prices) which the Babin Kuk
complex should offer in order to be competitive.
Class of                  Full Board per Person in Double Room (USe
Babin Kuk's                 High Season      Mid Season       Low Season
Different Sections
"L" Class                            20.00           15.00           10.00
"A" Class                            15.00           11.00            7.50
"B" Class                            10.00            7.50            -
The Outlook for the Expansion of Dubrovaik's Tourist Markets
F'oreigp Market
45.       The data provided in paragraphs 25 and 28 above indicate that by
far the bulk of Dubrovnik's foreign traffic is composed of Western European
holidaymakers.
1/  The "L" hotel tariffs have been esti4ated on the basis of thos.e of "L"
class hotels existing in other Yugos.lav towns.



Annex  3
Page 13.
46.       A vacation in Dubrovnik is rather expensive for most Western
Europeans on account of both Dubrovnik's geographical position and its
level of prices. As also indicated by prevailing tariffs for package tours
originating in Western Europe, the total expenditure for a 14 day vacation
in Dubrovnik is unlikely to be less than $250. If this minimum is compared
with (i) the per capita incomes and income distributions current in Western
Europe, and (ii) the average tourist expenditure propensities observed in
Western European countries,1/ the conclusion may be drawn that Western
Europeans earning annual incomes compatible with a vacation to Dubrovnik or
other comparableA/ tourist destinations (i.e. Dubrovnik's potential market)
are, at present, only a small share of Western Europe's total population.
47.       The development of the actual tourist demand deriving from the
above-mentioned potential market has been very dynamic in recent years.
Table 4 shows that between 1964 and 1969 in a number of Mediterranean regions3/
total foreign tourist arrivals - more than 80% of which originated in Western
Europe - increased at an annual average rate of 12.6%.4/ There is strong
evidence that this rate of development will improve, or at least remain the
same, in the coming years as well:
(i) Despite past development trends, the number of Western
Europeans who can afford the costs implied by a vacation
in Dubrovnik or similar tourist centers remains small.
The potential market has thus plenty of "room" for
expanding as per capita incomes rise. It should be
noted, furthermore, that the typical "shape" of income
distributions current in Western Europe is such that
each additional increase in the potential market is
bound to be greater than the previous.
(ii) The proportion of actual long haul travellers to the
potential market (i.e., all people who can afford such
travels) will continue to rise in future in relation
to the constantly increasing propensity for travel in
general and for air travel in particular.
Domestic Market
48.       Although from 1960 to 1967 per capita income in Yugoslavia developed
at a considerable growth rate (approximately 5% growth rate in constant prices)
domestic pleasure-motivated traffic as measured by national visitors' overnights
in all Yugoslav seaside resorts was about stagnant. With some fluctuations,
1/ Tourist expenditure as a percentage of total private consumption expen-
ditures in Western Europe varied from 3.7% in Italy to 7.4% in Switzerland.
2/ i.e. in terms of prices and distances.
3/ They have been selected, within the limits of available statistical data,
trom among those more closely reflecting Dubrovnik's situation.
4/ The range varies from 6.2% (Morocco) to 22% (Tunisia) and 41% (Cyprus).



Annex 3
Page 14.
domestic tourist bed-nights in these resorts passed from 9,231,000 in 1960
to 10,242,000 in 1967. More recently, however, domestic pleasure-motivated
tourism to seaside resorts has shown a sudden upsurge, with the number of
bed-nights rising to 12,650 in 1969 from the 1967 level (at an average growth-
rate for-the two years of over 12%). Although it is too soon to'draw any
definite conclusions, this trend might be related to the fact that per capita
income in Yugoslavia has reached the threshold at which pleasures-motivated
domestic tourist demand becomes increasingly "income-sensitive".
49.       Even assuming that this threshold has not yet been reached, and the
1967-69 upsurge proves to be fortuitous, it is likely to be attained within
tha next seven or eight years, as per capita income climbs, from the present
level of $570 to $850 in 1975. Accordingly the time has either come, or it
will soon come, when domestic Yugoslav tourism will develop rapidly.
Underlying Assumptions for Projection of Traffic and Occupancy Levels
Pleasure-Motivated Traffic
50,       The development of Dubrovnik holidaymaker traffic has been forecast
on the main assumption that this traffic w7ll tend to grow - within every
hotel category - in proportion to supplyT  As far as foreign tourism is
conce.rned, the demand requirements for the period 1969-77 implied by this,
assumption (see para. 62.following) do.not seem to exceed,. to any large extent,
either past development trends of foreign traffic to Dubrovnik or the likely
pace, of development of Western European pleasure-motivated traffic to
comparable Mediterranean tourist destirrations.  The more.so as part-of these
requirements will.be met not by "new" traffic but by frustrated demand (see
para. 54. following). Similar considerations are applicable to the demand
requirements of pleasure-motivated domestic traffic.  Consequentlypthere is
no serious_constrain:t for Dubrovnik's further tourism development on the part
of the market.
51;       Under these conditions, the assumption that pleasure-motiVated
traffic will grow.. as a linear function of supply appears reasonable.  It
a2svo.closely,reflects what has occurred in' the past development of many
tourist resorts (examples: of.which are given on both .sides of the-Adfatizt),
where/ the hotel occupancy, remained unchanged despite considerabl, in-creases
in accommodation capa.city.
52.       At any rate, Dubrovnik appears-capable of increasing' itsWshare of
tbe.above-mentioned traffic.  Supporting,factors for this assumption are:
Foreign..Traffic
(i). p-ieasure-motivated. traffic to Dubrovnik originating<;
ina Western Europe. is- only a. small share of total'
1/  Such.assumption in.regard.to.B'clAss-hotels will only apply' to t6uristi
traffic.registered.from April to October, this being the operating..
period :of the planned.additional B cldss accommodation in'Dtbrovnik:
(i..e. ,lBab.n-K*,hk3,000: beds).



Annex 3
Page 15.
Western European pleasure-motivated traffic to the
Mediterranean area, or even Yugoslavia.
(ii) Dubrovnik has a high degree of competitiveness;
although Dubrovnik's level of prices is high by
general Yugoslav standards, it is lower than that
of other resorts in the same geographic area
offering comparable types of attractions - say,
Venice, Capri, Elba, St. Tropez.
Domestic Traffic
(i) Domestic pleasure-motivated traffic to Dubrovnik
is only a small share of total domestic tourist
traffic to Yugoslav seaside resorts.-'
(ii) Its past traditions make Dubrovnik more popular
among Yugoslavs than any other seaside resort in
Yugoslavia.
53.       The assumption that pleasure-motivated demand will grow in pro-
portion to supply appears to be applicable for each year from 1969 to 1974 -
a period during which Dubrovnik's supply will, according to plan, increase
at about the same rate as in the previous five years. In the following
period, however, because of the leap in hotel accommodation capacity from
1974 to 1975, the adjustment of demand to supply is unlikely to occur
immediately. The mission has formulated the hypothesis that demand will
catch up with supply in three years.
54.       Aside from the general reasons indicated in the preceding paragraphs,
any hypothesis forecasting a longer period of time for the market to meet
the 1974-75 increase in accommodation is rendered most unlikely by a consi-
deration of the size of existing frustrated demand.9! According to the records
of Atlas, Dubrovnik's major travel agency, 1,000 Americans, 2,700 French or
Italians, 1,300 Germans and 300 British, for a total of 5,000 potential
visitors, were turned away from hotels located in the general area of
Dubrovnik's commune during the period January/August, 1970. This data
naturally reflects the volume of frustrated demand only as far as potential
visitors who requested organized group travel are concerned. If data on
frustrated demand was also available for potential visitors intending to
travel on an individual basis - the majority of the market as shown in
paragraph 30 above - this volume would undoubtedly be much greater.
1/  About 1.4% in terms of bed-nights in 1968.
2/  It should be noted that there are three levels of frustrated demand
in the Dubrovnik area (i) that of potential visitors who could not
find accommodation anywhere else in the commune's territory, (ii) of
potential visitors who could not find accommodation in the town itself
and (iii) of potential visitors who could not find rooms in hotels.



Annex 3
Page 16.
55.       Due to the relatively slow increase scheduled for Dubrovnik's
accommodation capacity from 1970 to 1974, the present situation of frustrated
demand will remain unchanged during those years. It will thus cast its full
impact on hotel occupancy in the following period.
56.       Because of frustrated demand, the increase in pleasure-motivated
traffic will not be evenly distributed over the years 1975-77, but will
rather tend to be concentrated at the beginning of this period. Accordingly,
the mission has assumed that the years 1975, 1976 and 1977 will take up 70%,
20% and 10% respectively of said increase.
Business-Motivated Traffic
57.       Unlike holidaymaker traffic, business traffic is scarcely affected
by increased accommodation, its growth depending on such factors as economic
coridiLions, expansion of trade and the like. As for Dubrovnik's business
traffic, development has been projectbd at 4% annual growth rate, i.e. the
same average rate recorded during the period 1964-68 by 15 Yugoslav commercial
centers with very little or no tourist attractions (see Table 5).II
Projection of Dubrovnik's Yearly Levels of Occupancy
58.       According to the assumptions set forth in the proceeding paragraph,
the average  ear1y occupancy of L-A and B class hotels in Dubrovnik will be
as follows:.
"E" Class Hotels
"L" and "A"                   On             Open from
Class Hotel 3/             Average      April to October 4
1969                      73.8                     56.6               51.1
1970                      74.0                     56.8               51.3
1971                     72.6                      56.9               51.4
1972                     71.4                      57.1               51.6
1973                     71.5                      57.3               5l.w
1974                     70.7                      57.5               52.0
1975                     59.0                      41.0               39.2
1976                     65.9                      47.5               45.7
1977                     69.4                      50.8               49.0
1/  The implicit assumption here is that the factors affecting the ,growth;of
the business-motivated component of Yugoslav tourism traffic will
continue to develop in the period under consideration as they did in the
period 1964-68.
2/  See Tables 6 and 7 for the calculation.
3/  The occupancy level of "L" class hotels when they begin to operate is
assumed to be equal to that of t'A" hotels.
4/  Includes Babin Kuk.



Annex 3
Page 17.
Seasonal Adjustment of Hotel Occupancy Levels
59.       From what has been said in paragraph 18, the seasonal pattern of
Dubrovnik's hotel occupancy should be about the same in the typical year
1977 as that prevailing at present. In the years 1975 and 1976, on the
other hand, this pattern is likely to be modified substantially. Since
frustrated demand is strictly a summer months' phenonemon, it stands to
reason that the progressive meeting of this segment of potential demand
will cast its ensuing favorable impact on high season alone. It is therefore
logical to assume that the hotel occupancy rate for this particular season
will immediately (i.e. as of 1975) reach the level forecast for the typical
year. This will not be the case for mid and low season rates, which will
together bear the brunt of the reduced annual occupancy levels predicted for
1975 and 1976.
60.       These considerations have led to the following assumptions:
(i) Throughout the period 1975-77, high season occupancy
levels will stand at 98% and 95% for L-A and B hotels,
respectively.
(ii) Mid and low season occupancy levels for L-A class
hotels will be such as to (a) satisfy the condition
set forth under (i) above, (b). be in the same ratio
to each other as they were in 1969 and (c) be com-
patible with the volume of traffic forecast for each
single year. As for B class hotels, mid-season
occupancy levels will be determined by residual
traffic.
61.       The occupancy levels (in percentages) for each season and class
of hotel during the period 1975 to 1977 will thus be:
L-A Hotels                         B Hotels
1975     1976      1977           1975      1976      1977
High Season           95        95        95             98        98       98
Mid Season            61        72        79             37        56        65
Low Season            36        43        46
Assessment of Demand Requirements
62.       In line with the assumptions laid out in the foregoing sections,
the development of Dubrovnik's tourist traffic as a whole is indicated
herebelow:



Annex 3
Page 18.
('000 Bed-Nights
in all kinds of             Growth Rates
Accommodations)
19,69                        1,158
1970                         1,160           Period 1969-77 : 12.4%
1971                         1,287
1972                          1,410           Period 1969-74 : 6.9%
19-73,                       1,412
1974                         1,613           Period 1974-77 : 22%
19-75                         2,534
1976                         2,800
1977                          2,934



YUGMAVIA:  Yabin Kuk Tourism Project
COITPARISON BESTEEN THE TOURIST MAJET OF DUBROVNIK TOWN AND THAT OF THE OTHER RESORTS WITHIN DUBROVNIK CONrMUNE
1.  Distribution of Hotel Bed Capacity by Category (%)       Dubrovnik Town           Other Resorts
A Categor-y                                                       40.2                     10 .8
B Category                                                        4h.2                     70.0
C Category                                                        15.6                     19.2
Total                                                        100.0                    100.0
2.  High Season, Full Board Hotel Rates for Selected same Category Hotels (U.S.$)
Dubrovnik Town                         Cavtat                              Lopud
Min.          Max.                Min.           Max.                    Min.           Max.
A Category     Excelsior  11.20          18.00    Albatros          10.10
Argentina  12.20         17.00
B Category     Splendid    8.20           8.70    Adriatic           7.80             Grand Hotel           5.60
Bellevue           9.00            Cavtat     6.00           6.70     La Fodia       6.50           7.50
Kompas      8.48          11.00    Supetar    5.40           6.20
3. Distribution of Bed Nights by Foreign and
Domestic Visitors (%)                                     Dubrovnik Town          Other Resorts
Foreign                                                            77.4                     69.8
Domestic                                                          22.6                      30.2
Total                                                         100.0                    100.0
4. Average Daily Expenditure in High Season by                                     Selected Other Resorts
Foreign Visitors (U.S. $)                                Dubrovnik Town        Cavtat            Lopud          -
(D X
11.1               8d9             7.4 h                   ;



Annex 3
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
DSJEWL0P0T OF DUBROVNIWK'S ACCOMM)DATION CAPACITY DURING THE PERIOD 1965-69
(Number of Beds)
-1965-   -1966-   -1967-   -1968-   -1969-
Hfutel
A Category                    505         889        889     1,016        1,295
B Category                  1,171       1,253      1,365     1,385       1,425
o category                    600         637        591       631          501
Total                     2,276       2,779      2,845     3,032       3,224
Private Roams               n.a.        6,642       n.a.       n.a.       7,4LO
Other                       n.a.        4112        n.a.       n.a.       3,633
Total                                10,794                           10,673
December, 19TO



Annex 3
Table T
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC VISITOR HOTEL BEDNIGHTS IN
IN 1969 - ON A MONTHLY BASIS
(Percentages)
Domestic            Foreign             Total
January              83.7                16.3              100.0
February             73.2                26.8               100.0
March                50.h                49.6               100.0
April                17.5                82.5               100.0
May                  10.8                89.2               100.0
June                  3.7                96.3               100.0
July                  3.7                96.3               100.0
August                3.2                96.8               100.0
September             3.6                96.4              100.0
October              14.9                85.1               100.0
November             57.0                43.0               100.0
December             63.4                36.6               100.0
Total           14.3                85.7              100.0
December, 1970



Annex 3
Table }
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
Foreign Stopover Visitor Arrivals
(1000)
Av.. MilA:L
1 96jl      1969           Gr(wtl  Xate
Lebanon                             963       1,587             1.
i lalta                              38         186             37.(
liorocco                            460         621              6.2
Turkey                              229         435             13
Tunisia                             136         373             22.0
Cyprus                               16         118             49.0
G3reece                             674       1,139             11.0
Spain                            12,794      21,682             11.1
Portugal.                         1,008       2,759             22.0
Yugoslavia                        2,227       4,746             16.4
Israel 2-9                                      38$             1 0. 9
18,777     34031               12.6
December, 1970



Annex 3
YUGOSLAVIA:  Babin Kuk Tourism Project                Table 5
INCREASE IN HOTEL OVERNIGHTS DURING THE PERIOD 1963-1968 IN
15 YUGOSLAV CENTERS WITH LITTLE OR NO TOURIST ATTRACTIONS
-1 9 6 3  -                  -1968  -
Town                    No. of Over-Nights            No. of Over-Nights
Bijeljina                       8,125                       10,083
Brcko                          13,738                       15,286
Doboj                          11,876                       17,877
Tuzla                          42,891                       40,696
Titograd                       62,315                       61,991
Skoplje                       148,050                      194,055
Kragujerac                     26,328                       46,370
Kraljevo                       31,hh6                       35,187
Novisad                        95,571                      118,537
Pec                            36,317                       39,888
Svetozarevo                    19,242                       25,485
Valjevo                        15,866                       20,023
Zrenjanin                      18,723                       26,294
Cacak                          23,363                       25,123
Titovo Ozicc                   39,215                       47,,446
TOTAL                         593,o66                      724,341
Average Annual Growth-Rate:    4.0 percent
Dec(cmlber, 1970



Y[(TOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
PROJECTION OF L-A HOTEL CAPACITY, TRAFFIC AND OCCUPANCY LEVELS - (Theoretical Capacity and Traffic in '000 overnights)
-  Capacity  -                                          -  Traffic  -                                   -Occupancy-
1/                      2/                             3/                             4/                     L - A5/
Year   Beds   Theoretical Capacity    Pleasure Motivated Traffic-   Business Motivated Traffic- Total Traffic              %
(a)            (b)                          (c)                           (d)                     (e)           (f)
1969   1,295           472.7                        322.8                         26.1                   348.9          73.8
1970   1,295           472.7                        322.8                         37.0                   349.8           74.o
1971   1,795           655.2                        447.4                         28.1                   475.5          72.6
1972   2,295           837.7                        568.6                         29.2                   597.8          71.4
1973   2,295           837.7                        568.6                         30.4                   599.0          71.5
1974   3,095        1,129.7                         766.8                         31.7                   798.5          70.7
1975   6,295        2,297.7                      1,321.7                          33.0                1,354.7           59.o
1976   6,295        2,297.7                     1,480.3                          34.3                1,514.6           65.9
1977   6,295        2,297.7                       1,559.6                         35.7                1,593.3           69.4
/        Actual figure for 1969. Figures as from plans for following years.
2/       Number of beds multiplied by 365.
3/       1969 figure arrived at by assuming that pleasure-motivated visitors'  weir.--.ts were 92.5% of total
-        bednights. (see para. 4.01 and 6.20 of the Appendix3.  Projection based    a growth proportionate
to that of supply for the period 1969-74. As for the following period, -r,jection based on the
assumption that years 1975, 1976 and 1977 will take up 70%, 20% and 10% respeotiv-ely, of the in-
crease required for demand to match the 1974-75 increase in supply.
4/       1969 figure arrived at by assuming that business motivated visitors' Ie ig-hs were 7.5% of total.
As for following period projection based on a L2% annual growth rate.                            ta
$7'      (e)
De e:Ier, 1970



YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
PROJECTION OF B-HOTEL CAPACTrY, TltAFFIC ALD OCCUPANCY LEVEIS
(Theoretical Capacity and Traffic in '000 Overnights)
April to October Traffic        NovEmber to March Traffic                          Occupancy of
B-hotels with      Occupancy of
1/  Theoreticai/  Pleasure   Business                Pleasure   Business                Total Yearly    Opening Perio9/   all B-hotel%,
Year   Beds        Gapacity    Motivated  Motivated   Total   Motivated  Mlotivated   Total            Traffic       from    r-Oct.-    on Averay e-
(b)   (c}   (d)   (e)   (f)     (g)         (h)          (1)               (m)        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (n)
4/         4/         3/        4/          4/        3/            3/
1969   1,425         520.1        246.17       19.9     266.0f      26.2        2.i       28.3         294.3               51.1             56.6
6/                              6/
1970   1,425         520.1        246.1        20.7-    266.8       26.2        2.2       28.4         295.2               51.3             56.8
6/                              6/
1971   1,425         520.1        246.1        21.5-    267.6       26.2        2.3-      28.5         296.1               51.14            56.9
6/                              6/
1972   1,425         520.1        246.1        22.4-    268.5       26.2        2.12-    28.6          297.2               51.6             57.1
6/                              6/
1973   1,425         520.1        246.1        23.37    269.4       26.2        2.17      28.7        298.1                51.8             57.3
6/                              6/
19714   1,425        520.1        246.1        24.2-    270.3       26.2        2.ht      28.8         299.1               52.0             57.5
51    ~ 6/                               6/
1975  14,425      1,615.1         60&.75       25.17    633.8       26.2        2.7-      28.9         662.7               39.2             41.0
51    ~ 6/                               6/
1976   4,425       1,615.1        712.3-       26.17    738.4       26.2        2.87      29.0         767-4               45.7             47-5
5/         6/                               6/
1977   4,425       1,615.1        764.17       27 .d    791.1       26.2         2.9-     29.1         820.2               49.0             50.8
I/ Actual figure for 1969. Figures as frcm existing plans for following years.
2/ Number of beds multiplied by 365.
3/ Visitors' bednights in the periods April-October and November-March are estimated to be 90.4% and 9.6% of total yearly bednights, respectively.             ,   >
These percentages are derived fom information on a sample of B-hotels (see par. 2.14 of the Appendix).
4/ Pleasure-motivated and business-motivated visitors bednights are estimated to be 92.5% and 7.5% respectively of total niglhts in the particular                 (D
period of the year considered (see par. 4.01 of the Appendix).
5/ Based on assumption that years 1975, 1976 and 1977 will take up 70%, 20% and 10% respectively of the increase required for demand to match
the 19714-1975 increase in supply.
6/ 1969 figure projected at 4% annual growth rate (see par. 6.20 of Appendix).
(e)
tbSY
8/ (1)
- (b)
December, 197C






Annex 4
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Introduction
1.        The quantifiable net benefits from the project consist primarily
of visitors' expenditures within the project complex itself less the costs
(excluding depreciation, taxes and interest payments) of operating the pro-
ject. An important characteristic of the benefits is that 90% of them con-
sist of foreign exchange. The relevant investment is the capital cost of
the project itself plus the share of external infrastructure properly charge-
able to the project.
2.        In addition to the costs and benefits generated within the Babin
Kuk complex, the project will produce additional costs and benefits outside
the project's physical and accounting boundaries. The treatment of these
external effects is explained in paras. 10-15 below.
Costs, Revenues, and Economic Life of the Project
3.        So far as the Babin Kuk complex itself is concerned, the economic
benefits and costs are derived from the project's financial accounts (Annex 5).
Depreciation, interest and taxes are excluded from economic costs. However,
part of the costs of improving external infrastructure is added to the in-
vestment costs of the complex.
4.        The share of local road costs attributable to the project has been
derived as follows (two road projects are involved):
(i)   the improvement of short access roads to Babin
Kuk, which would also serve other adjoining
areas. These are estimated to cost US$700,000;
(ii)   the improvement of parking facilities and public
transportation to reduce traffic congestion during the
peak tourist season. The cost of this project will
depend on the solution adopted; it is believed that
the cost will not in any case exceed US$2.5 million.
Conservatively, one-half of (i) and one-third of the cost of (ii), amounting
in all to a little more than US$1.0 million, are assumed to be properly
chargeable to the Babin Kuk complex.



Annex
Page 2
5.        The costs ancd revenues of the project are expected to be dist,ributed
over time as follows:
(US$ Million)
Investr,ment Costsl/  Investment Cost    Total
Year   Babin Kuik Complex        Roads         Investment  Operating 2   Operating
Costs        Costs    Rlevenues
1             1.60                                1.60            -           -
2             7.32                  _             7.32            -           -
3             8.11                0.50            8.61            -           -
4            20.95                0.50           2145             -           -
5             6.05                                6.05        13.77        17.71
6              -                                    -         15.17        21.27
7-29                                                          1 5u.87      22.44
Total Investment Cost:                       US$45.03
6.        The project facilities and equipment have varying economic lives,
but as a whole it is estimated that the project would have an economic life
of about 25 years. The need to make modest provision for some replacement
expenditures during this period is considered to be offset by the life of
the main assets beyond 25 years.
Ratesp,of -Return
7.        Based on the above estimates, the internal economic return on the
project comes out at 12.3%. This is not however, the "best estimate" of the
project's true profitability to the economy. Key factors in this calculation
are the exchange rate used (i.e., D 15.0 = US$1.0, the recently established
official rate) and the cost of the land which does not reflect its full current;
value. The recent change in the exchange rate was widely regarded in Yugoslavia
as moderate in the light of the country's balance of payments position. Ac-
cordingly, in order to test the project's sensitivity to changes in the value
of certain variables, the rate of return was re-calculated on varying assumptions
as is shown below.
1/       cExcludes US$4.38 million for interest during construction and US$1.50
million paid to the Municipality in the form of a building fee, but
includes US$1.0 million for roads and related investments.
2/        Operating costs before taxes, depreciation, interest and dividends.



Annex 4
Page 3
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        The project's economic return has been subjected to sensitivity
tests, with the results shown in the following table:
Resulting Rate of Return
i.   Foreign Exchange Rate
(instead olf US&Pl.0 = D 15.0)
(a)  US,Ijl.O = D 18.0                                    17.5
ii. Valuation of Land (instead of US$165 million)
(a)  US$2.50 million                                      11.8
(b)  US$4.25 million                                      11.2
iii.   Annual Occupancy Rate (instead of 57%)
(a)  54%t                                                 11.5
iv.   Opening Date (1 year delay, i.e. 1976 not 1975)            11.0
V.  Most Adverse Combination of above Factors                    9.5
vi.   Most Favorable Combination of above Factors                17.5
It is clear that the rate of return is most sensitive to a change in the
value of foreign exchange and, to a lesser extent, to changes in occupalcy
levels. A combination of the least favorable assumiptions yields a rate of
return of more than 9'.
9.        Assuming a value of US$1.0 = D 18.0 and a value of land of US$2.5
million, the internal economic return comes out at 16.9%'.  This figure may
be considered the "best estimate" (the calculation assumes 1975 as the
onening date and an average annual occupancy of 57%).



Annex 4
P age  4
External or Off-Site Effects
10.       The project will have both direct and indirect external effects.
The direct effects are defined as expenditures of Babin Kuk guests outside
the complex, while the indirect are a result of induced investment, es-
pecially in infrastructure, not paid for directly by Babin Kuk guests.
These are further described below.
Direct Effects
11.    As a result of the proposed investment in Babin Kuk, foreign and
Yugoslav airlines and other modes of transportation are expected to in-
crease their activities and their earnings. This will also be the case
with retail shops, restaurants and the like outside the Babin Kuk complex
and especially in the old city of Dubrovnik. These services will be paid
for directly by the tourist in addition to what he spends on food, accom-
modation, etc. within the complex itself. Total gross earnings of the
Yugoslav economy will be substantially greater than those of the comuplex
itself.
12.      These additional revenues, however, result not only from the in-
vestment in and operation of Babin Kuk, but also from investment in and
operation of other facilities. Because of the number of "other facilities"
required to serve the needs of the visitor, it has not been possible to
estimate the additional capital and operating costs required to generate
these extra revenues.
13.      However, it is likely that there would be a better utilization of
existing capacity as well as an expansion of present facilities and the net
benefits of the former would properly be ascribable to the investment in
Babin Kuk. To this extent, the benefits of the project in the rate of re-
turn analysis are understated.
Indirect Effects
14.      Investment in Babin Kuk would result in the need for expansion
and improvement of the water supply and sewage systems, the airport and
some of the roads (see Annex 2).  With regard to water supply and sewage
and the airport, the agencies involved are autonomous and financially
self-supporting. Any additional capital and operating costs involed,
therefore, would be recovered through:
(i)   charging the Babin Kuk complex through rates
for water supply and sewage services supplied;
and
(ii)   charging the airlines through landing and other
fees for the airport services provided.



Annex 4
Page 5
Since these agencies are financially self-supporting it is reasonable
to assume that the return on the additional investment required would
be adequate.
15.     With regard to road and related investments the problem is
complicated for three reasons:
(i)   the road projects involved are not revenue earning;
(ii)   the projects are to serve not only the Babin Kuk
project but other needs of the area; and
(iii)   the projects would be required anyway in the future
and the investment in Babin Kuk only accelerates
this need.
The share of the estimated investment chargeable to Babin Kuk has been
given above (para. 4).
Balance of Payments Impact
16.     By the time it is fully operational, the proposed project would
increase gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism by US$20.2 million,
net of tourist transportation. This compares with the official estimate
of US$310.0 million earned by the sector in 1969, but which includes
foreign exchange earnings from tourist transportation.
17.     Because of the high proportion of foreign tourists, and the low
import content of operating costs, the estimated net foreign exchange
earnings of the project are relatively high. When the project is fully
operational the annual costs in foreign exchange are estimated at US$3 .35
million on operating account with US$2.10 million of capital charges.
Thus the net foreign exchange earnings in 1977 and subsequent years would
be US$14.7 million, which compares with the estimated foreign exchange
component in total investment costs of US$16.6 million, including price
contingencies.






Annex 5
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Babin Kuk Tourism Project
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Operating Results
1.        Table 1 of this annex presents the forecast of Operating
Results over the first 16 years of the project. This forecast is
based on Revenue and Cost assumptions which are described below.
Revenue Assumptions
2.        Total revenues include income from both hotel and non hotel
sources within the Babin Kuk complex. Hotel revenue has been broken
down into four categories: rooms, food, beverage and other. Room and
food income has been estimated on the basis of full pension tariffs
and the projected occupancy in each type of hotel in the complex. The
full pension tariffs and expected occuyancy levels for a typical year
are indicated in the following table:1
Projected Occupancy and Full Pension Tariffs
Full PensionL/            Expected
Category          Season          Tariffs US$          Occupancy Rates %
Luxury            High               24.00                   95
Mid                19.00                   79
Low                13.00                   46
Class A          High                20.00                   95
Mid                15.00                   79
Low                10.00                   46
Class B          High                15.00                   98
Mid                10.00                   73
3.        Income from the sale of beverages and all other goods and services
within hotels is estimated on the basis of the number of guests (by category)
times the assumed expenditure per guest-night as follows:
1/        The average annual hotel occupancy rate for this typical year is
57%. The annual occupancy rates expected during the first two
years of operation are 44% and 54%, respectively.  The tariff
structure is the same for all years.
2/        These tariffs are dollar equivalents of dinar rates inflated to
take account oC the price increases expected to occur up to 107',
rourdpd to the nearest dollar.



Annex 5
Page 2
Beverage US$         Other
Luxury Hotel Guests             2.0o8             1T
Class A Hotel Guests            1.6                .94
Class B Hotel Guests            1.34               .75
4.        Non hotel revenue is derived from the sale of goods and services
to both hotel guests and non resident guests (transients). Non hotel revenue
sources include catering, shops, guest services and recreation. Daily ex-
penditures by hotel guests for non hotel items is estimated as follows:
Non Hotel Expenditures by Hotel Guests
Category    Ca erj;g      Shops      Guest Services      Recreation      Total
tuso       (usR)          (us$)              (us$)        (us$)
Luxury          1.20       2.95           1.14                .87        6.16
Class A          .94       2.28             .80               .67        4.69
Class B          .67       1.54             .54               .47        3.22
5.          Expected daily expenditure per guest, within the complex is given
below:
Expected Daily Expenditure by Hotel Guests
(us$)
Category    Season      Within lHotels     Non Hotel Items    Within Complexi/
Luxury       High           27.66                6.16               33.84
Mid            2?.30               6.16               28.48
Low           16.94                6.16               23.12
Class A      High           22.65                4.69               27.34
Mid           17.29                4.69               21.98
Low           12.60                4.69               17.29
Class B      High           16.83                3.22               20.05
Mid            12.15               3.22               15.37
1/          Hotel guests are expected to spend the following amounts per day
outside the complex:  Luxury - US$2.29, Class A - US$1.76, and
Class B - US$1.22.



Annex 5
Page 3
6.           Non resident guests are expected to number 297,000 in a
typical year, with an average daily expenditure of US$3.26 per visit:
catering - US$1.41, shops - US$0.80, guest services - US$0.60, and
recreation - US$o.46.
Cost Assumptions
7.           Total operating costs include the direct and indirect
expenses attributable to the three groups of activity within the com-
plex: hotel operations, non hotel operations (catering, shops, guest
services, and recreation), and the central service centers.!/
8.           Direct material costs for food, beverage and other items
within the hotels have been calculated as follows: (a) daily food
cost per guest has been estimated at US$2.81 for Luxury and Class A
residents, and US$2.61 for Class B residents; (b) beverage costs are
estimated to average 30% of sales; (c) the cost of other goods and
services averages 60% of sales. Direct material costs for catering,
shops, guest services and recreation are estimated at 31%, 56%, 23%,
and 21% respectively. For the central service centers, material costs
in a typical year are expected to be US$275,000, or 1.7% of total op-
erating costs.
9.           Payroll costs for hotels are expected to be 21% of sales
in the typical year of operation. For individual hotel categories, the
payroll as a percent of sales is: Luxury - 30%, Class A - 21%, and
Class B - 19%. These costs reflect the relatively low wages of semi-
and unskilled workers in the hotel industry in Yugoslavia. The total
number of employees in the high season will be about 2,160, in the off
season, about 845. Payroll costs for the non hotel departments include
an average of 10% of sales for catering, shops, guest services and recre-
ation, and an estimated US$616,000 for the central service centers in a
typical year.
10.          Indirect costs include the following items for a typical
year ?
1/           Total cost estimates for the first two operating years are
reduced, reflecting lower occupancy levels, but decline less
than proportionally due to fixed and semi-variable costs.
2/           For the first two years of operation, commissions vary direct-
ly with sales, laundry declines with reduced occupancy, and
all other indirect costs remain fixed.



Annex '
(us$ I000)
Administration and General Costs           1,5)i5
Travel Agency Commission                   1,186
Heat, Light and Power                        864
Mainternance andw ReTair                     670
,,aundry                                      8658
Advertising and Sales                        134
4,985
11.           Average depreciation on total assets is about 4.6% per year.
Buildings anid site development are depreciated over '0 years, heavy and lisght
equipment and miscellaneous supplies over 10, 5 and 3 years, respectively.
The professional fees and the project office are both amortized over 25 years.
Pre-opening management and staff training expenses are amortized in equal
installments over the first five years of operation.
12.           Interest is calculated at 3% on the Privredna Banka, Zagreb loan,
(reflecting the subsidy from the Croatian Government) and 7-1/Thi on the proposed
IBRD loan.
13.           It has been agreed during negotiations that 45' of the annual net
profit of BKHTC will be paid to Minceta as dividend. It has also been agreed
that no less than 20$ of the annual net profits will be retained wi-thin BETITC
to build up equity. The allocation of the balance of 35< of the net profits
will be at the discretion of the BKHTC Business Committee. It has been assumed
that the Business Committee will retain within BKITC more than the minimum and
that this will, on average, amount to a total of 30% of the annual net profits.
This will leave 25% of the net profits to be distributed at the discretion of
the Business Committee in other ways. A projecLed Financial Position Statement
and a projected Cash Flow Statement, based on the forecast of operati-ng results,
are presented below as Tables 2 and 3 attached.
14.           The table below shows the impact on the operating results of the
subsidized interest rates. Interest rates without subsidies are 7-l/4'ih on th'ie
TBRD loani and 8% on the Yugoslav loan. The interest charge for 1975 is
capitalized.  Column (A) in each year shows non-subsidized interest payments;
Column (B) shows subsidized interest payments.



Annex 5
Page 5
Tmpact of Subsidized Interest on OperatinF Results
(us$ t000)
1.970             1977            1980            1990
-A-   -B-         -A-   -B-       -A-   -B-       -A-   -B-
Operatln7 Profit    '514                5.P6   5.96   5.96 ,K 96   5.96   5.o6
Iess DeTrreciation
andl Amortization  2.53   2.53         2.53   2.53   2.29    2.29   2.29    2.29
Tnterest        2.42       3              22        .       87   1.20   0.84
T\Tet Profit          0,3   1.68       0.96   1 .4d   1.42   1.80   2.47   2.83






YUGCSLAVIA:  Pabin Fuk Tourisim Project
PROJECTED FRFIT AND LOSS STATSMENT
(USI; millions)
Year  diongfl vtecber31:                     7      1976    1        1978    1979    1980    1981    1982        8      1g81     1985             1987    1988    1989    1990
Oz~era in1Ya:1                                        2       3                         W       T-      Tr       W -r                    ~       ~Y          F     -F       -
Gross Revenue:
Hotel Operations                        13.65   16.37   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25   17.25    17.25   17.25    17.25
Non-Hotel Operations                     406   14-90    5.19          5.19    5.19    5.19    5.19              9    5         59    553.1               5.19    5.19     5.19
Total                               17.71   21.27   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22-44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44   22.44
Less Operating Costs:
M.aterial                                4.80    5.82    6.17    6.17    6.17    6.17    6.17        6.17    6.17     6.1T    6.17    6.17      6.17     6.17    6.17     6.17
PFayoll                                  4.30    4.49    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.72L    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.71    4.71            4.71
Indirect Costs                           4.65    4.86    4.99    4.99    4-99    4.99    4.99    4.99    4.99    4.99          4.99    4.99     4.99    4.99    4.99      4.99
-arnover Tax                              .47      .56     .61      .61     .61      .61     .61      .61     .61      .61      .61      .61     .61      .61      .61     .61
Total                               14.22   15.73   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48   16.48
Operating Profit                           3.49    5.54    5.96    59        5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96    5.96 :-96    5.96
1Less: Decreciation and Aaortizatitm       2.53    2.53    2.53    2.53    2.53    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29    2.29             2.29
3et Profit Before Interest                 0.96    3.01    3.43    3.43    3.143    3.67    3.67    3.67    3.67        3.67     3.6t    3.67    3.67    3.67    3.67       3.67
Less: Interest                               -      1.33    2.02    1.97    1.93    1.87    1.81    1.55    1.48    1.41    1.33    1.24    1.15    1.05    0.95            o.84
!let Profit                                0.96    1.68    1.141    1.46    1.50    1.80    1.86    2.12    2.19    2.26    2.34    2.43    2.52           2.62    2.72     2.83
Dividends to Minceta (45%)                 0.43    0.75    0.63    o.66    o.68    0.81    o.84    0.95    0.99    1.02    1.05    1.09    1.13    1.18    1.22             1.27
Allocation by Business GittO               0.24    0.42    0.35    0.37    0.38    0.145    0.47    0.53    o.55    0.57    0.59    o.61    0.63    o.66    0.68    o.7n
Total Dividend and Shares                  0.67    1.17    0.98    1.03    1.06    1.26    1.31    1.148    1.54    1.59    1.64    1.70    1.76    1.84    1.90            1.98
Retained Earnings                          0.29    0.51    0.43    0.43    o.44    0.54    o.55    o.64    o.65    o.67    0.70    0.73    0.76    0.78    0.82             o.85
CuAlative Retained Earnings                0.29    0.80    1.23    1.66    2.10    2.64    3.19    3.83    4.48    5.15          5.85    6.58     7.34    8.12    8.94      9.79
Aeturn on Total Investaet (%)              1.9      6.0     6.9      6.9     6.9      7.4      7.4     7.4      7.4     7.4      7.4      7.4     7.4      7.4      7.4      7.4
Il Net profit before interest ad dividend but after depreciation
April, 19n7
H D



YtOSLAVIA  Babin Kic Tourism Project
PROJECTED FINAIGIAL POSITION
(US$ Milllon)
Year Frding Decewber 31                   1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
ODerational Tear                              O                                       5 11 '                   T                                  ;I
C=rrent Assets
Cash                                             4.46    6.60    6.97    8.37    5.10    5.60    6.n        7.97    8.25    3.74    4.86    5.13    6.15    7.11    2.57    3.38
P8ceiVables                                      0.35    o.43    0.45    o.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.45    0.b4    o.0h5    0.45
Irventories                                      0.89    1.06    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12    1.12
Cthers                                          o.35    o.43    0.45    o.45   _0.45    0.45    o.45    o.45    0.45    0.45    o.45    0.-45    0.15    2z           0.45    c.L 5
Total Current Assets                               6.05    8.52    8.99   10.39    7.12    7.62    8.73    9.99   10.27    5.76    6.88    7.35    8.17    9.13    4.59           .:
Ourrent Liabilities
PVables/General                                  0.53    0.64    o.68    o.68    0.68    0.68    o.68    o.68    0.68    o.68    o.68    o.68    0.68    0.68    o.68    o.68
Payables/lkneets Credits                         1.13    0.99    0.85    o.71    0.57    0.43    0.29    0.15         -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
rOher                                            0 90    0.94    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97
Prcvision for Dividend Paymnt                    0.67    1.17    0.98    1.03    1.06    1.26    1.31    1.48    1.54    1.59    1.64    1.70    1.76    1.14    1.90    1.98
Long-Tern Debt Maturities                        1.08    1.42    1.47    1.52    1.58    1.64    1.70    1.76    1.84    1.92    2.00    2.09    2.19    2.29    2.41    2.53
Total Current LiabIities                           4.31    5.16    4.95    4.91    4.86    4.98    4.95    5.04    5.03    5.16    5.29    5.44    5.60    5.78    5.96    6.16
.et W:kLng capital                                 1.74    3.36    4.04    5.48    2.26    2.64    3.78    b4.95    5.24    0.60    1.59    1.71    2.57    3.35   (1.37)  (0.76)
FIxed Assets (Net)
Fixed Assets                            40.52   45.29   43.00   41.52   39.23   41.55   40.07   37.78   35.49   34.01   37.40   35.11   33.63   31.34   29.05   32.18   29.89
Deferred Crarges                        1.05    0.96    0.72    o.48    0.224       -        -       -       -        -                                         ,       _
Total Fixed Assets                    41.57   46.25   43.72   42.00   39.47   41.55   40.07   37.78   35.49   34.01   37.40   35.1    33.63   31.34   29.c5   32.18   29.89
Total ,et Assets                         41.57   47.99   47.08   46.14   b4.95   43.81   42.71  j4156   40.44   39.25   38.00   36.70   35.34   33.91   32.Lo   30.81   29.13
Leng-Tenr Liabilities
IERD Loan                               13.59   20.00   19.69   19.04   18.34   17.59   16.78   15.91   14.98   13.99   12.92   11.77   10.54    9.22    7.80    6.28          4.61A
rugoslav Loan                           18.48   19.28   18.51   17.74   16.97   16.20   15.43   14.66   13.89   13.12   12.35   U. 58   10.81   10.04    9.27    8.50    7.73
Total Long-Term Leans                   .0    39.20       o   6     -70  "7  3                  YU877 F8M                         M; z   1S  I9. I777 12.                     -
(Lese: Debt Maturities)                         -                                                                                                    1M  T  ;  - 1   -1
Total Long-Term Liabi'Utiee               32.07   38.20   36.78   3531   33.79   32.21   30.57   28.87   27.11   25.27   23.35   21.35   19.26   17.07   14.78   12.37    9.84
Ecoity                                    9.50    9.79   10.30   10.73   11.16   11.60   12.1b,  12.69   13.33   13.98   14.65   15.35   16.08   16.84   17.62   18.14    19.29
Reresented by:
Share Canital                          9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50
Retained Earning L                             o.29    0.80    1.23    1.66    2.10    2.64    3.19    3.83    4.48    5.15    5.85    6.58    7.31    8.12    E.94    g.e
Total Emity                                 Lo    9.79   10.30   10.73   11.16   11.60   12.14   12.69   13.33   13.98   14.65   15.35   16.08   16.84   17.62   18.    19.29  -3 
Cu.et 2/                              -     .1:    1.:     1.81    .1:   1=--         1.      -       -        __=    __          --:=
Curent Ratio;                               -    1.4:1   1.7:1   1.8:1   2.1:1   1.5:1   1.5:1   1.8:1   2.0:1   2.0:1   1.1:1   1.3tl   1.3t1   1.5:1   1.6:1   0.8:1   0.9:1 
Iong-Term Debt/lquity                     77:23   80:20   78:22   77:23   75:25   74:26   72:28   69:31   67:33   64:-6   61t39   58:42   54:46   50:50   46:54   4060   34:66 (D X
1/ Net of dividend provision
T/ Current  rtities   LT debt as a current liablity
Apr1l, 1971



YUGOSLAVLA: Babin Kuk Touris7m Proiect
PlOJE:CTED CASH FlWW
(US$ I{illion)
Year       Decenber 31:                              1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1960  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1087  1988  1989  1990
77=7ng7_r                                              -      -               -   1    -2    -3                           - 7    T       9     10     1       21=
Ca3s at beg'-.irng                .-                        -                   -    k.46   6.6n   6.97   8.37  5.1o  5.60   6.71   7.97  8.25  3.74 4.86   5.13  6.15   7.1   2.57
e_.i _tv .Canial*-                             1.50    -          -         -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -
e-                                         0.nst7nt  0.35   2.65   2.48   2.52  -
Lang--.ern loan (IU0))                             0.03   2.1h  3.8   7.58   6.bl
Lorg- ern loan (Tugos1alv.                         0.35   2.71  2.6  12.78   o.80    - eo- -    -                                                                        -             -
Sub-Total                                       2.23   7.50  8.96  22.88   7.21   4.46  6.60   6.97   8.37   5.10   5.60   6.71   7.97   8.25   3.74  h.86   5.13   6.15   7.11   2.57
Ne' pr-f_t                                           -      -                 o -   0.96   1.68   1.kl  1.i46  1.5o  1.80   1.86   2.12   2.19   2.26   2.34  2.03   2.52   2.62   2.72   2.63
.an-cas.7 charges                                   -                         2.53   2.53   2.53   2.53   2.53   2.29   2.29   2.29   2.29   2.20   2.29   2.29   2.20   2.29  2.20   2.29
Sub-Total                                         -      -     _           3.49   4.21  3.9k   3.99   4.03  4.09   4.15   h.l h.48  h.55  4.63   k.72 h  61 h.91   5.0i   5.12
To'al cash & initial investment                    2.23   7.50  8.96  22.88  10.70   8.67  lo.5k  1o.96  12.4O  9.19   9.75  11.12  12.kS  12.80   8.37   9.58   9.0k  11.06 12.12   7.69
Ir.crease (or decrease) in ?ffnceta Credita          -      -      -     -    .l3/(0.31) (0.14) (0.1O) (0.ll.) (0.1h) (0.14) (O.14) (0.15)                  -      -         -
Ir.rease in paables and others '                                              1.43   0.15   o0.7    _      _             _                                 _                    _      _
Su'-Gota                                          -      -      -      -   2.56   o.0o  (0.07) (Oak) (ok1) (0.1k) (o.1) (O.a) (0.15)    -         -      -      -      -      -     -
Total unds provided                                2.23   7.50   8.96  22.88  13.26   8.68 10.4T  10.82  12.26   9.05   9.61  10.98  12.30  12.80   8.37   9.58  9.o4  11.06  12.12   7.69
Ja'licat'on:
Pr'ect expeses
ro    epd                                        1.50    -       -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -                    -      -      _      -      -
B.9ldL.ng, fixtures and *quipent                 o.68   7.26   8.58  22.50   7.c6    -   0.81      -   4.61   0.81     -      -   0.81   5.68            .81     -      -    52
Sub-Total                                       2.18   7.26   8.58  22.50   7.06    -   0.81      -   L.61  0.81             _    0.81   5.68     -   0.81    _             5- 2
Fre-operational erpenses                           o.05  o.2k   0.38   0.38   o.i5    -       -                  __-_                 -          -         -      -      -      - 
Total project expenses                      2.23   7.50  8.96  22.88   7.21          0.81     -   4.61   0.81      -      -   0.81   5.68    _    0.81      -      -    5.L2
Long-tern repaymnt (IBRD)                              -      -     _      _      _   0.31   0.65   0.70   0.75   0.81   0.87   0.93   0.99   1.07   1.15   1.23   1.32   1.42   1.52   1.6k
Lont-term  epaynt (lugosar)                            --,-_                               0.77    0.77    0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77  0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77   0.77
Total loan repaymnt                           _     _-                  -     1.08   1.42   1.h7   1.52   .58  1.64   1.70   1.76   1.84  1.92   2.00   2.09   2.19   2.29   2.S1
Distribution by Basiness Comittee                                                 -   0.67  1.17   0.98   1.03   1.06   1.26   1.31   1.48   1.54  1.59   1.6k   1.70   1.76   1.8k   1.90
Increase in current assets                             -      -     -      -    1.59  0.33   0.10      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Total application                           2.23  L7-.   8.96  22.88   8.80   2.08  3.50  2.45   7.16   3.45  2.90   3        1 4o S 9.o6  3.51   45   3.79   3.95   9.55   4.31
Cash at end                                            -      -                 4 -    4.146  6.60   6.97   8.37   5.10  560  6.71   797   8.25   3.7k   k.86   5.13   6.15   7.11   2.57   3.38
Debt Service Coverage: (a) Generated Incos. plus Interest                       3.49   5.5k   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96   5.96
(b) Maturities plus Interest                                -   2.,l  3.h4   3.44   3.45  3.45  3.45  3.25   3.24   3.25   3.25   3.24   3.24   3.2k   3.24   3.25
(c) Debt Service Coverage                                   -   2.3   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7    1.7   1.7
' Land
T/ Including principal and financial chargea capitalized during construction.
I/ 'Worldng capital.






YUGOSLAVIA
BABIN KUK HOTEL COMPLEX
ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
DISBURSEMENT                                                                            17,200,000
(IN U.S. DOLLARS)                   1,928,600                           3,382,800                         6,773,000                          5,115,600
RATE                             (1%)                               (20%)                              (39%/)                            (30%)
F                     03      Q4  1  051   06           07   108         Q9    QIO    Q11  1Q12            Q13  0Q14        015   Q016   I017   1Q18
SELECIONU
ARCHITECTS AND
PRELIMAINARY/CONTRATDOCUMENTS
EQUIMENT]
LOANCOTAT-
AGREEMENTOCUA Y
SIGNING                                                                                                                                     DATE
DAT E                                     CONSTRUCTION
COTRCTS
L I  Z               ~~~CONSTRUCTION
EQUI PMENT
D~ELI VERY AND INSTALLATION
T---1    ---
I                   LIABILITY  PERIOD
I2 3 4   56  7      8910  11   1314 I5161718 1920 2J22 25   2,926 27 2829 30 3132 3343    373583940 4142 4344 45 4647 149 50 5I5253 54 5556 75T  59   (')
STAGES       01l    02  12  03       04       Q5      06  24  07        08      09      010 36 Qil        012     Q13      014 48 015       016      017     01860 2:
(IN MONTHS &
QUARTERS)                                                                                                                                                 IBRD-5226(2R)






_ 3         ~~~~~~~~Chart 2
a
a0  Ir n I
_ i  '    y. vw
X   IVIIODI
ps         ~~~~~~~~I a,D
.M         1_X~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'' tT1'2X~~~~~~~~
R  .     i L_1,~~~~~~~~~~~~01
ii,~~~~I
ffa S  {s~~~~~~~00
j^ X 






DUBROVNIK, YUGOSLAVIA
TOURISM    PROJECT
0        ~~~~~~~~DAKS A                       Babin Kuk
Ml         ~~HotelI Complex  Location
Ape'~~~~~~~U RO V, t
SEA
PROJECT AREA
;   zog*;- X>< + .             X AA              t      m  URBANIZED AREA
Rij.k.  NOVi S.d
BELGRADE0 ,     -
YUGOSLAVIA                                                        HLYAE
DV U0 V                       N
'                Gl  l  ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3  49X-
KILOMETERS
JANUARY 1971                                                                    IBRD-3182R1






AMAP 2
S                                                                                       j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             
tffffS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                R   ;;  005 Wf\of: fC  u      a"iooa0A    : t         :f A    ;Dfff  -/ H ije ka 0Zagreb4   UMAIA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~1
DU MRN :YUGOSSLAVIA
'TOURISM PROJEC
Htel ComIplex ~tordUe
-.----Ntalttroacjs    are (ret=reat!l@0i50S0;7    t                                         Qf9sot0> u rvnh                                                                          B L
IL tS          V Lrar c shtls-                               h
,0. MR cltss hoter
]B d lass hateja
rce0 Se  t   a re
/ U,<Bro,it-wp areqleohr          ,,,,,'I
-so-- ctoarsain Meters
tjllX090l3il   090     So  00  ' 0 ;0,00 bees'0                  ~                                  m      g     ,0        G_,\xJ\                                   /g
O       a 0 zas                 tao-   i:soafemes'
MARCH 1971                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 3243P



