M     LOAN NUMBER 213-TU
GAE Project Agreement
(Second Fertilizer Rationalization and
Energy Saving Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUBRE FABRIKALARI T.A. S.
AKDENIZ GUBRE SANAYII A. S.
and
EGE GUBRE SANAYII A. S.
Dated                                ,1982


﻿GAE PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        rht     f  I S         , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and GUBRE FABRIKALARI T.A.S., AKDENIZ
GUBRE SANAYII A.S. and EGE GUBRE SANAYII A.S. (hereinafter called
the Companies).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-four
million one hundred thousand dollars ($44,100,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Companies agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.,
part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to TSKB on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth;
(C)   by finance agreements to be entered into between TSKB
and each of the Companies, the proceeds of the Loan made
available by the Borrower to TSKB will be relent by TSKB to each
of the Companies on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Companies, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GUBRE shall carry out Part A of the Project,
AKGUBRE shall carry out Part B of the Project and EGE shall carry
out Part C of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, with due (I ligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
industrial practices.
Section 2.02. (a) Each of the Companies shall maintain an
adequately staffed project team to manage implementation of its
respective Part of the Project.
(b)   In order to assist each of the Companies in carrying
out designs and engineering under its Part of the Project, each
of the Companies shall employ an engineering firm whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank; such employment to be made in
accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(c)  In order to assist AKGUBRE in implementation of Part B
of the Project, AKGUBRE shall employ an engineering expert whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such employment to be made in
accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement;
and
(b) procurement of civil works and erection services under
the Project shall be in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank, including prequalification.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Companies undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the


﻿-3-
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by TSKB against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by it to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Each of the Companies shall cause all goods and serv-
ices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
TSKB to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Companies shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b)  Each of the Companies: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of its
Part of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of its portion of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by TSKB,
and to disclose their use in such Part of the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in such Part of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning such Part of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of such portion of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by any of the Companies of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed by the Bank, each of the Companies
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the


﻿-4-
execution and initial operation of its Part of the Project, the
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by such Company and the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
(e)   Each of the Companies shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine all its plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.06. Each of the Companies shall duly perform all
its obligations under its respective Finance Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the Companies shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its Finance Agreement
or any provision therof.
Section 2.07. (a) Each of the Companies shall, at the
request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to
the progress of its Part of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under its Finance Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Each of the Companies shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of its portion of the proceeds of the Loan, or the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its
Finance Agreement.
Section 2.08. Each of the Companies shall carry out a
training program under the Project acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Companies
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Companies shall conduct its
operations and affairs and maintain its financial position in
accordance with sound engineering, industrial, administrative and
financial practices, with qualified management and assisted by
qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿- 5 -
(b) Each of the Companies shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
(c)   If any of the Companies establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, it shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform
the obligations of the party hereunder to the extent to which
such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though
such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
(d)   Each of the Companies shall operate and maintain all
its plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time make
all necessary repairs, renewals and replacements thereof in
accordance  with   sound  engineering   industrial  and  financial
practices.
(e)   Each of the Companies shall maintain its corporate
existence and any licenses and facilities required to enable it-
to carry out its Part of the Project and to operate the
facilities constructed or improved under such Part of the Project
and shall not dispose of any of its assets without the Bank's
consent, except in the normal course of business.
(f)   Each of the Companies shall maintain and operate its
facilities included in its Part of the Project in accordance with
environmental and ecological standards acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Each of the Companies shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. Each of the Companies shall: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so


﻿-6-
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of such Company
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. As used in this Agreement with respect to the
financial obligations of each of the Companies:
(a)   "Current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for
purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of
business within one year, and inventories valued at the lower of
cost or market.
(b)   "Current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably
expected to require the use of existing resources classified as
current assets. Obligations shall include but not be limited to
customers' advances, accrued taxes on, or measured by income,
other accrued taxes and current maturities of long-term debt.
(c)   "Capital additions" means the aggregate of all the
expenditures or costs incurred by such Company for the acquisi-
tion and ownership of land, buildings, machinery, equipment,
furniture, fixtures and all other tangible fixed assets and
investments in, or loans to, other entities.
(d)   "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes, sur-
charges and other levies, if any, but before provision for depre-
ciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(e)  "Debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking
fund payments) on long-term debt, and interest and other charges
on long-term debt and other debt payable during the period con-
cerned.
(f)  "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally occurred; and


﻿-7-
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement (including the Finance
Agreement) on the date of such loan contract or
agreement; (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only, except in the case
of a guarantee of debt of a subsidiary, to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able by such Company for the purposes of servicing
such debt or in the absence of such rate of
exchange, another rate acceptable to the Bank.
(g) "Equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, appropriately valued, surplus if it is represented by a
positive number and free reserves of such Company.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each of the Companies shall: (i) to conduct its operations and
affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all
times, its debt/equity ratio at such level that its aggregate
long-term debt shall not be greater than 1.5 times its aggregate
equity; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond such
Company's control, be exceeded, take all such reasonable action
as shall be necessary or advisable promptly to bring such ratio
within such limit.
(b)  Each of the Companies shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt
which would materially and adversely affect its ability to meet
its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  GUBRE shall take such action as shall be necessary to
maintain its aggregate current assets at a level of at least 1.1
times its aggregate current liabilities, and, commencing Janu-
ary 1, 1987, 1.3 times its aggregate current liabilities.


﻿-8-
(b) Each of AKGUBRE and EGE shall take such action as shall
be necessary to maintain its aggregate current assets at a level
of at least 1.3 times its aggregate current liabilities.
(c)   Each of the Companies shall not incur any long-term
debt in any year unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures shows that its aggregate projected net revenues for
each full fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be
incurred or for the following ten years, whichever is shorter,
shall be at least 1.5 times the aggregate projected debt service
requirement in such year on all long-term debt of such Company.
For purposes of this paragraph, "a reasonable forecast" means a
forecast prepared by such Company in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is proposed to be incurred and reviewed by the
Bank which both such Company and the Bank accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified such Company of its
acceptability, provided no event has occurred since the Bank's
acceptance of such forecast which would have a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of
such Company.
(d)    The  provisions  of paragraph   (a) of this    Section
supersede and amend, as to GUBRE, the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement dated May 15, 1981
between the Bank and GUBRE.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may othewise agree, each of
the Companies shall not, in any year prior to the completion of
the Project, make expenditures or commitments for expenditures
for capital additions exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent excepting
expenditures required to carry out its Part of the Project, any
works financed by the proceeds of a prior loan from the Bank and
those for normal maintenance.
Section 4.07. Each of the Companies shall periodically
revalue its assets for memorandum account on the basis of
replacement cost and in acccordance with sound accounting
principles consistently applied.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
GUBRE shall not make payments or distributions in respect of its
capital if, after giving effect to said action, its current
assets would be less than 1.4 times its current liabilities.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of each of the Companies thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each of the
Companies thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in   full   force  and   effect   notwithstanding   any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly give:1 >r
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegrao,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For GUBRE:
Gubre Fabrikalari T.A.S.
Kasap Sokak No. 10
Esentepe
Istanbul, Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
GUBRE                             26235 GFT TR
Istanbul
For AKGUBRE:
Akdeniz Gubre Sanayii T.A.S.
Genel MUdUrlUgU
Mersin, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
AKGUBRE                             67147 AGS TR
Mersin                              42717 AGSA TR
For EGE:
Ege GUbre Sanayii A.S.
Sehit Fethi Bey Caddesi
No. 79/7
Izmir, Turkey
Cable address:
EGE GUBRE
Foga Izmir
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each of the Companies may be taken or
executed by its General Director or such other person or persons
as the General Director shall designate in writing, and each of
the Companies shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of such
person.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
GUBRE FABRIKALARI T.A.S.
By
Authorized Representative
AKDENIZ GUBRE SANAYII A.S.
By
Authorized Representative
EGE GUBRE SANAYII A.S.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.     For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, each of the Companies shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. Each of the Companies shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin or preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All biding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering   goods manufacture    in  the
Republic of Turkey if the bidder shall have       estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the respective Company
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Turkey equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay


﻿- 14 -
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost less than
$150,000 equivalent may be awarded through limited international
tendering with a minimum of three price quotations on the basis
of a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however,
that (i) contracts shall not be awarded unless the Bank has
approved said list of goods, and (ii) contracts of goods so
procured shall not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of
one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000).
2.    Contracts for: (i) proprietary goods (equipment and spare
parts) for existing equipment may be awarded on a negotiated
basis pursuant to a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) critical items (equipment and spare parts) may be awarded on
the basis of a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank pursuant to
limited international tendering with a minimum of three price
quotation; provided, however, that contracts under (i) and (ii)
hereof shall: (1) not be awarded unless the Bank has approved
said list of goods; and (2) not, in the aggregate, exceed the
equivalent of eight million three hundred thousand dollars
($8,300,000).
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Each of the Companies shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by such Company to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Company's decision, and the Company shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 15 -
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and services esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, each of the Companies shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the pros-
pective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, each of
the Companies shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasn-abl; request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform such Company and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, each of the Companies shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
. shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines


﻿- 16 -
or this Schedule, pro:4tly inform such Company and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, each of the Companies shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform such Company and state
the reasons for its determination.
0


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  J3      day of  AiI±1 198 PZ:.
FOR SECRETARY


