ovTcLOAN MWNER              II TU
Loan Agreement
(Second Fertilizer Rationalization
and Energy Saving Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 , 1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 'YWa-   t3         , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (hereinafter called
TSKB), TSKB has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the Project (hereinafter called the TSKB Agreement);
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (hereinafter called DYB), DYB has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the Project
(hereinafter called the DYB Agreement);
(D) part of the Project will be carried out by Gubre
Fabrikalari T.A.S. (hereinafter called GUBRE), Akdeniz Gubre
Sanayii A.S. (hereinafter called AKGUBRE), Ege Gubre Sanayii
A.S. (hereinafter called EGE) and Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri
A.S. (hereinafter called KBI) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
TSKB for relending to GUBRE, AKGUBRE and EGE and to DYB for
relending to KBI part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the TSKB Agree-
ment, in the DYB Agreement, in the GAE Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and GUBRE, AKGUBRE and EGE
(hereinafter called the GAE Project Agreement) and in the KBI
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and KBI
(hereinafter called the KBI Project Agreemen );
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreements" mean the GAE Project Agreement and
the KBI Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TSKB pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time (hereinafter called the TSKB Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
and the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DYB
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time (hereinafter called the DYB Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement);
(c)  "Companies" means GUBRE, AKGUBRE, EGE and KBI;
(d)   "TSKB Finance Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between TSKB and each of GUBRE, AKGUBRE and EGE
pursuant to Section 2.01 of the TSKB Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(e)   "DYB Finance Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between DYB and KBI pursuant to Section 2.01 of the
DYB Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f) "Finance Agreements" means the TSKB Finance Agreements
and the DYB Finance Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(g)    "Guarantee Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between TSKB and commercial banks pursuant to
Section 2.05 of the TSKB Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-four million one hundred thousand dollars ($44,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for ex-
penditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the keasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the praceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedules to the Project Agreements.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to six hundred
fifty-one thousand seven hundred twenty-four dollars ($651,724).
The fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the
Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have
received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount required for the full payment of the
fee in the currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. TSKB and DYB are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Part E of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause (i) TSKB and DYB to each perform in accordance with its
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the
TSKB Agreement, the DYB Agreement and the Finance Agreements, and
(ii) the Companies to each perform in accordance with its res-
pective obligations under the Project Agreements and the Finance
Agreements, and shall take or cause to be taken all action neces-
sary or appropriate to enable TSKB, DYB and the Companies to per-
form such obligations, including without limitation facilitating
access to foreign exchange funds required for the Companies to
import raw materials and intermediate products needed for full
utilization of capacity and to complete the Project, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(c) In order to carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to thirty-four
million three hundred fifty-six thousand dollars ($34,356,000) of
the proceeds of the Loan to TSKB under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and TSKB, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
which shall include that: (i) the Borrower shall have no recourse
to TSKB in the event of non-payment by TSKB to the Borrower of
any of such proceeds attributable to default or non-payment under
the Guarantee Agreements; (ii) such proceeds shall be repaid over
a term of twelve years including four years of grace; (iii) TSKB
shall pay interest and commitment charges at the rates applicable
to the Loan; and (iv) TSKB shall pay the Borrower a fee on the
Effective Date of the equivalent of five hundred seven thousand
seven hundred twenty-four dollars ($507,724).
(d)  In order to carry out Part D of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall relend an amount equivalent to seven million nine
hundred seventeen thousand dollars ($7,917,000) of the proceeds
of the Loan to DYB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DYB, under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include that: (i) such proceeds shall be repaid over a term of
twelve years including four years of grace; (ii) DYB shall pay
interest and commitment charges at the rates applicable to the
Loan; and (iii) DYB shall pay the Borrower a fee on the Effective
Date of the equivalent of one hundred seventeen thousand dollars
($117,000).
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist AKGUBRE in fully utilizing
its capacity under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
install or cause to be installed, not later than June 30, 1983,
or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, two
six-ton cranes at the ammonia terminal at Mersin harbor.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments not later
than June 30, 1984, or such later date agreed by the Bank, a
study of fertilizer raw material resources in Turkey.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such employment to
be made in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1982,
make administrative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
coordination of the study referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. In order to assist KBI in fully utilizing its
capacity under Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall make
arrangements for supplying water to KBI in accordance with a
timetable agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part E of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part E of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan under said Part, and to disclose their use
in said Part of the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such inform-
ation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Pro-
ject, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank


﻿-7-
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare, with the assistance of
TSKB, DYB and the Companies, and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in maki.g
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined)      as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien Pn
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-8 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
T. C. Merkez Bankasi or any institution performing the functions
of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. As long as the Borrower sets ex-factory prices
for fertilizer, it shall set such prices at levels of not less
than the c.i.f. landed prices of comparable imported products,
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to permit KBI to
set prices at levels KBI deems appropriate on the basis of inter
alia costs of production, investment requirements and m.rket
conditions.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)  TSKB or DYB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the TSKB Agreement or the DYB Agreement,
respectively, or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(b) Any of the Companies shall have failed to perform any
of its respective obligations under either of the Project Agree-
ments or any of the Finance Agreements.
(c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that TSKB or DYB will be
able to perform its obligations under the TSKB Agreement or the
DYB Agreement, respectively, or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.


﻿-9-
(d)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any of the Companies
will be able to perform its obligations under either of the Proj-
ect Agreements or any of the Finance Agreements.
(e)  Any law pertaining to the establishment or operations
of TSKB, DYB or any of the Companies shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of any of them to perform any of
their respective obligations under the TSKB Agreement, the DYB
Agreeaent or the Project Agreements.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TSKB, DYB or any of the Companies or for the suspension
of the operations of any one of them.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)  Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and TSKB, DYB or one of the Com-
panies, as the case may be.
(b)  Any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Acreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TSKB and DYB, respectively;
(b)  the Finance Agreements have been executed on behalf of
TSKB or DYB and each of the Companies, respectively; and


﻿- 10 -
(c) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been made to
protect TSKB from loss in the event of non-payment by GUBRE or
AKGUBRE under its Finance Agreement, including that the Guarantee
Agreements have been executed by the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the TSKB Agreement and the DYB Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by TSKB and DYB, respectively, and
are legally binding upon TSKB and DYB, respectively, in accorci'
ance with their terms;
(b) #hat each of the Project Agreements has been duly
authorized or ratified by each of the Companies, respectively,
and is legally binding upon each of the Companies, respectively,
in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TSKB or DYB, respec-
tively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and TSKB or
DYB, respectively, in accordance with their term; and
(d) that the Finance Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by TSKB or DYB, respectively, and each of the Com-
panies, respectively, and are legally binding upon TSKB or DYB,
respectively, and each of the Companies, respectively, in accord-
ance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date               4 71    2-  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of USection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bankanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
MALIYE                            821-42285
Hazine                            821-42689
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
I  ( q -zL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B y       (  c Q A j   J N % A ,
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part A
(1) Equipment and              21,100,000         100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(2)  Consultants              2,809,852           100% of foreign
services under                               expenditures
Part A.1                                     for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey and
57% of total
expenditures
for other
consultants
(3) Training                 12100,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
Part B
(4)  Equipment               22,038,424            100% of foreign
and materials                                 expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-fac-
tory)


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Consultants               1,770,000           100% of foreign
services under                               expenditures
Part B.1                                     for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey
and 57% of
total expen-
ditures for
other consul-
tants
(6) Training                  1,100,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
Part C
(7) Equipment and             2,050,000           100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory)
(8) Consultants                 360,000           100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
under Part                                   for consultants
C.1                                          domiciled out-
side Turkey
and 57% of
total expen-
ditures for
other consul-
tants
(9) Training                    520,000           100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part D
(10) Equipment and           4,225,000             100% of foreign
materials                                     expenditures
and 100%
of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(11) Consultants             2,875,000             100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
under Parts                                   for consultants
D.1 and 3                                     domiciled out-
side Turkey
and 57% of
total expen-
ditures for
other consul-
tants
(12) Training                  700,000             100% of foreign
expenditures
Part E
(13) Consultants             1,800,000             100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
for consultants
domiciled out-
side Turkey and
70% of total
expenditures
for other
consultants
(14) Fee                       651,724            Amount due
TOTAL             44,100,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in 'the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
two million dollars ($2,000,000) may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
August 1, 1981.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures:
(a) in respect of Categories (4), (5) or (6) until AKGUBRE
shall have employed the expert referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of
the GAE Project Agreement; and
(b) in respect of Categories (10), (11), or (12) until KBI
shall have employed the three experts referred to in Section 2.02
of the KBI Project Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿- 16 -
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, -reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.     If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the second phase of a program of the
Borrower to improve the performance of the fertilizer sector
through rehabilitation and modernization of selected fertilizer
and related plants.
The Project consists, inter alia, of the following Parts:
A.   GUBRE
1.    Engineering for rehabilitation of the Iskenderun complex
including: (i) engineering for rehabilitation of existing
pyrite-based sulfuric acid plant, including new pyrite prepara-
tion, grinding and drying facilities; (ii) engineering for
rehabilitation of existing phosphoric acid plant; (iii) engineer-
ing for the new 660-tpd diammonium phosphate (DAP) unit along
with necessary offsites; (iv) engineering for additional facili-
ties to reduce air and water pollution and to produce ammonium
sulfate as a byproduct while scrubbing with ammonia sulfur
dioxide gases which are currently vented to the atmosphere from
the stack of the sulfuric acid plant: (v) engineering for
expanding and improving existing utilities systems and storage
facilities for raw materials and intermediate products; (vi)
preparation of detailed project cost based upon a revised
implementation   schedule;  and   (vii)  preparation   of   tender
documents for inviting bids for the civil works and erection
contract.
2.   Provision of spare parts required for improving operation of
the existing facilities at the Iskenderun complex.
3.    Training of GUBRE staff, including provision of equipment
and training aids, development of training programs and overseas
training.
B.   AKGUBRE
1.   Rehabilitation of the Mersin Complex
Rehabilitating the complex including: (i) addition of a new
600-tpd ammonium sulfate unit, including storage facilities; (ii)
rehabilitation of the existing sulfuric acid plant to improve the


﻿- 18 -
capacity utilization, and to control air pollution from sulfuric
dioxide (02) gases by replacing old mist eliminators with new
and more efficient ones by installing new heat exchangers, by
installing an electric-driven    standby S02 blower and a new
economiser, overhauling the electrofilter, and by extending the
height of the stack; (iii) rehabilitation of the existing
phosphoric acid plant, especially by replacing the concentration
exchangers; (iv) overhaul of the existing nitric acid plant by:
(a) replacement of the reactor waste heat boiler section to meet
process parameters and to overcome the corrosion problem; (b)
installation of new absorption devices to reduce to acceptable
levels nitrogen oxide (NOx) concentration in the tail gases
emitted to the atmosphere and also to increase efficiency of the
absorption system; (c) replacement of heat exchangers; and (d)
overhaul of the turbo-compressors to meet process requirements;
(v) rehabilitation of the calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) and DAP
plants to improve their on-stream efficiency and p-oduct quality;
(vi) improvement and expansion of the unloading and storage
facilities for solid and liquid (phosphoric acid) inputs; (vii)
installation of a new back pressure turbogenerator to facilitate
energy saving in the Complex; (viii) overhaul of utilities system
to meet requirements of production units; and (ix) spare parts.
2.. Training of AKGUBRE staff, including provision of equipment
and training aids, development of training programs and overseas
training.
C.   EGE
1.   Rehabilitation of the Foca plant including: (i) installation
of a new premixing unit for the granulation plant to improve pro-
duction capacity by decreasing the recycle rate in the granu-
lator; (ii) the addition of a 5,000-ton bulk and bagged storage
for finished products; (iii) installation of weigh belts for
granulator feed streams to replace the existing electronically-
controlled system; (iv) mechanical modifications to allow opera-
tional flexibility and to produce 15-45-0 and/or DAP fertilizers
in addition to the 20-20-0 (NP) product that is currently pro-
duced; (v) adoption of measures, including provision of equip-
ment, to prevent air pollution from MAP and NP plants; and (vi)
spare parts.
2.   Training of EGE staff, including provision of equipment and
training aids, development of training programs and overseas
training.


﻿- 19 -
D.   KBI
1.   Rehabilitation of the Samsun Complex including: (i) revamp-
ing of the existing copper smelter through modifications in the
concentrate dryer, flash furnace, air heater, electric precipita-
tors, and dust recycle conveyors and the plant air system; (ii)
modifications in the gas suction, scrubbing and heat recovery
sections of the sulfuric acid plant; (iii) improvements in the
electric supply system by adding new voltage compensators and a
new underground connection line to overcome the corrosion problem
at the overhead high-voltage aerial line, (iv) relocation of the
existing water pumping station; and (v) spare parts.
2.   Training of KBI staff, including provision of equipment and
training aids, development of training programs and overseas
training.
3.   Develor-qent of programs to improve operation and maintenance
of the Sams"n complex.
E.   Borrower
Carrying out of a Fertilizer Raw Material Resource Study
including: (i) reviewing available information on all the local
fertilizer raw material resources in Turkey with special refer-
ence to rock phosphate, pyrites, lignite and natural gas; (ii)
examining the size and quality of these reserves and, taking
account of other competing uses and the comparative costs of
imported raw materials, identify deposits suitable for develop-
ment for fertilizer production on a priority basis; (iii) recom-
mending additional steps necessary to firm up the reserve esti-
mates and their quality; and (iv) analyzing the infrastructure
availability near those deposits.
*           *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1986
through   August 15, 1998                  1,695,000
On   February 15, 1999                          1,725,000


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     2.05%
More than three but not
more than six years
before maturity                                     4.10%
More than six but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     7.50%
More than eleven but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                    10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                    11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         - LLday of NA&, 198 2
FOR SECRETA Y


