LOAN NUMBERa 31    TU
DOCUMENT,'-
KBI Project Agreement
(Second Fertilizer Rationalization
and Energy Saving Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KARADENIZ BAKIR ISLETHELERI A. S.
Dated                   13          ,1982


﻿KBI PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     mQ-4     ( ?            , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL   BANK    FOR   RECONSTRUCTION   AND    DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and KARADENIZ BAKIR ISLETMELERI
A.S. (hereinafter called KBI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
four million one hundred thousand dollars ($44,100,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that KBI agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Devlet Yatirim Bankasi, part of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will
be made available to DYB on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
(C)  by a Finance Agreement to be entered into between DYB
and KBI, the proceeds of the Loan made available by the Borrower
to DYB will be relent by DYB to KBI on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS KBI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KBI shall carry out Part D of the Project.
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and industrial practices.
Section 2.02. (a) KBI shall maintain an adequately staffed
project team to manage implementation of its Part of the Project;
(b)  In order to assist KBI in carrying out Part D of the
Project, KBI shall employ three experts for operation, main-
tenance and implementation and an engineering firm whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such employment to be made in
accordance with the principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement;
and
(b)  procurement of civil works and erection services under
the Project shall be in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank, including prequalification.
Section 2.04. (a) KBI undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by DYB against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by KBI to replace or repair such goods.
(b) KBI shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by DYB to be used exclu-
sively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) KBI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿- 3 -
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) KBI shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of its Part of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of its portion of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in its Part
of the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in its Part of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
its portion of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning its
Part of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of its portion of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by KBI of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed by the Bank, KBI shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of its Part of the Project, the cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by KBI and the
Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e)  KBI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of KBI and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. KBI shall duly perform all its obligations
under its Finance Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, KBI shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its
Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) KBI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of it:s
Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under its Finance Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   KBI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
its Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
its portion of the proceeds of the Loan, or the performance by
KBI of its obligations under this Agreement and under its Finance
Agreement.
Section 2.08. KBI shall carry out a training program under
the Project acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KBI
Section 3.01. (a) KBI shall conduct its operations and
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
sound engineering, industrial, administrative and financial prac-
tices, with qualified management and assisted by qualified and
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) KBI 'shall   take  out  and maintain   with   responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
(c) If KBI establishes or acquires any subsidiary, it shall
cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
KBI hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or
can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were bind-
ing upon such subsidiary.
(d) KBI shall operate and maintain all its plants, equip-
ment and properties, and from time to time make all necessary
repairs, renewals and replacements thereof in accordance with
sound engineering, industrial and financial practices.
(e) KBI shall maintain its corporate existence and any
licenses and facilities required to enable it to carry out Part D
of the Project and to operate the facilities constructed or


﻿-5-
improved under such Part of the Project and shall not dispose of
any of its assets without the Bank's consent, except in the
normal course of business.
(f)  KBI shall maintain and operate its facilities included
in its Part of the Project in accordance with environmental and
ecological standards acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. KBI shall continue to comply with all its
obligations under any other loan agreement with DYB, including
any loan agreement under which the proceeds of any other Bank
loan have been relent by DYB to KBI.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. KBI shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. KBI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of KBI and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. As used in this Agreement with respect to the
financial obligations of KBI:
(a)   "Current assets" means the sum of unrestricted cash
available for use in current operations, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not, acquired for
purposes of control, affiliation, or other continuing business
advantage), receivables collectible in the normal course of
business within one year, and inventories valued at the lower of
cost or market.


﻿-6-
(b)    "Current liabilities" means all obligations due on
demand or within one year or whose liquidation is reasonably
expected to require the use of existing resources classified as
current assets. Obligations shall include but not be limited to
accounts payable, customers' advances, accrued taxes on, or
measured by income, other accrued taxes and current maturities of
long-term debt.
(c)   "Capital additions" means the aggregate of all the
expenditures or costs incurred by KBI for the acquisition and
ownership of land, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture,
fixtures and all other tangible fixed assets and investments in,
or loans to, other entities.
(d)   "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses, including taxes, sur-
charges and other levies, if any, but before provision for depre-
ciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(e)  "Debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (principal payments and any mandatory sinking
fund payments) on long-term debt, and interest and other charges
on long-term debt and other debt payable during the period con-
cerned.
(f) "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally occurred; and
(i) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement (including the Finance
Agreement) on the date of such loan contract or
agreement; (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only, except in the case
of a guarantee of debt of a subsidiary, to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
and
(ii) whenever in connection with this Article it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able by KBI for the purposes of servicing such


﻿-7-
debt or in the absence of such rate of exchange,
another rate acceptable to the Bank.
(g)  "Equity" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, appropriately valued, surplus if it is represented by a
positive number and free reserves of KBI.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
KBI shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio at such level that its long-term debt shall not be greater
than 1.5 times its long-teri equity; and (ii) if such ratio
shall, for reasons beyond KBI's control, be exceeded, take all
such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable
promptly to bring such ratio within such limit.
(b) KBI shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any of its outstanding debt which would materially
and adversely affect its ability to meet its financial obliga-
tions.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   KBI shall take such action as shall be necessary to
maintain the aggregate current assets of KBI at a level of at
least 1.3 times its aggregate current liabilities; and
(b)   KBI shall not incur any long-term debt in any year
unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
shows that its aggregate projected net revenues for each full
fiscal year during the term of the long-term debt to be incurred
or for the following ten years, whichever is shorter, shall be at
least 1.5 times the aggregate projected debt service requirement
in such year on all long-term debt of KBI. For purposes of this
paragraph, "a reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by
KBI in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is proposed
to be incurred and reviewed by the Bank which both KBI and the
Bank accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
KBI of its acceptability, provided no event has occurred since
the Bank's acceptance of such forecast which would have a mate-
rial adverse effect on the financial condition or future operat-
ing results of KBI.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may othewise agree, KBI
shall not, in any year prior to the completion of the Project,


﻿-8-
make expenditures or commitments for expenditures for capital
additions of KBI exceeding five million dollars ($5,000,000)
equivalent excepting expenditures required to carry out its Part
of the Project, any works financed by the proceeds of a prior
loan from the Bank and those for normal maintenance.
Section 4.07. KBI shall periodically revalue its assets for
memorandum account on the basis of replacement cost and in
acccordance   with   sound  accounting   principles   consistently
applied.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of KBI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify KBI thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue   in   full  force   and   effect   notwithstanding   any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For KBI:
Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri A.S.
Ziya G6kalp Cad. No. 17
Ankara
Turkey
Cable Address:                     Telex:
KARBAK                              42233 KBI TR
Ankara
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KBI may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and KBI shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
.  Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
KARADENIZ BAKIR ISLETMELERI A.S.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, KBI shall prepare and forward to the Bank
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. KBI
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply oi goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
imported taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Turkey may be granted a margin or preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All biding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the in-
formation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Repub-
lic of Turkey if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of KBI and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such    goods includes a value added in
the Republic of Turkey equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 13 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedutes
1.   Contracts for goods and services estimated to cost less than
one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) equivalent may be
awarded through limited international tendering with a minimum of
three price quotations on the basis of a list of goods satis-
factory to the Bank, provided, however, that (i) contracts shall
not be awarded unless the Bank has approved said list of goods,
and (ii) contracts of goods so procured shall not, in the aggre-
gate, exceed the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000).
2.    Contracts for: (i) proprietary goods (equipment and spare
parts) for existing equipment may be awarded on a negotiated
basis pursuant to a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) critical items (equipment and spare parts) may be awarded on
the basis of a list of goods satisfactory to the Bank pursuant to
limited. international tendering with a minimum of three price
quotations; provided, however, that contracts under (i) and (ii)
hereof shall: (1) not be awarded unless the Bank has approved
said list of goods; and (2) not, in the aggregate, exceed the
equivalent   of  one  million   seven  hundred   thousand  dollars
($1,700,000).
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. KBI shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and 6f the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-
qualification shall be furnished by KBI to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of KBI's decision,
and KBI shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 14 -
With respect to all contracts for goods and services     esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of three hundred, thousand dollars
($300,000) or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, KBI shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall' reouire the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospectivo bidd-rs.
(b) After bids have been received and evalua.ed, KBI shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as thq Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform KBI and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalifiCation was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, KBI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform KBI and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 15 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, KBI shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the pro-
posal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform KBI and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 13 day of 01/ ,, 198 i.
FOR SECRETARY


