Docwunnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 7772
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1746-TUN)
NAY 19, 1989
Europe, Middle east and North Africa Region
Country Department II
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribudoD and may be used by recipients only In the perfomance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit :   Tunisian Dinar (D)
D1.OO              US$1.
US$1.00       a   DO.87
(Average Calendar 1987)
WEIGHIS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNT      Banque Nationale de Tunisie
(National Bank of Tunisia)
CGP      Commissariat General a la P&che
(Fisheries Authority)
FOSEP    Fonds Special d'Encouragement a la Peche
(Special Fund for Fisheries)
INSTOP   Institut National Scientifique et Technique d'Oceanographie
et de Peche
(Tunisian Vishery Research Institute)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL US ONLY
THE WORLID SANK
Washtigton, D.C. 20433
UlS A.
Ofk ci DircSuGswi
May 19, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Tunisia Second Fisheries
Proiect (Loan 1746-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tunisia Second Fisheries Project (Loan
1746-TUN)' prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. Full evaluation of this project has not been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attacbment
|of' their official duties. Its contents tnay not othewi be dhiosked without World Bank authoStion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1746-TUN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ...............................**    i
BASIC DATA SHEET                         ....ii
EVALUATION SUMMIARY                       ....iv
1.  BACKGROUND ....................................      ...              .          1
A. Resources ......              .         .         ..............             1
B. Sector Setting..                                                             1
II.  FIRST FISHERIES PROJi'CT .           .      .................................    2
III. PROJECT FORMULATION .........................                                     3
A. Identification and Preparation               .         .                     3
B. Appraisal ........... ..                                                     3
IV. PROJECT START-UP .                        .                                       4
A. Effectiveness and Start-up               .           .                       4
B. Revisions..    5
C. Procurement.                                                                 5
V. CONSTRUCTION IMPLEMENTATION.                                                      8
A. Implementation Schedule.                             . .                     8
B. Port Component. . .                                                          8
C.  Credit Component ...............................                .          10
D. Extension Component                     . . .14
E.  Studies and Research .....................             .       .           15
F. Institution-Building                   . . .16
VI. PROJECT IMPACT    ..16
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                                18
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED    ..18
Annex 1: Economic Rate of Return
Attachment I - Comments from the National Bank of Tunisia
AttachmentII - Comments from the Fisheries Authority
Map - IBRD 14170
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1746-TUN)
.                                               PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Fisheries
Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 1746-TUN in the amount of US$28.5 million
was extended on July 20, 1979. The original loan closing date was June 30,
1985, but after two extensions the loan was officially closed on December 31,
1986. The grace period for the closing of loan accounts was extended to seven
months. Final disbursement was made on July 2, 1987, about two years after
the initially anticipated date. In March 1987 US$3.0 million of the
uncommitted savings of the project were cancelled, and at the time of the
final disbursements the remaining balance of US$1.7 million was cancelled.
Hence the tctal amount disbursed under the project was US$23.8 million.
This PCR was prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office, based on the "Rapport d'Achevement du 2 ieme Projet Peche"
prepared by the Government, a review of Bank records and selected interviews
with Bank staff who were associated with the project.  No field visit was made.
TIhe draft report was sent to the Borrower on March 1, 1989 for
comments. Replies were received from the National Bank of Tunisia and from
the Fisheries Authority and are included as Attachments I and II to the
Project Completion Report (PCR). Their comments have been incorporated into
the final PCR text.



- ii -
TUNSA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND 0FI RIES PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
(LOAN 1746-TUN)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal               Actual or
Item                                       ExRectation            Current Estimate
Total Project Costs (US$ million)               67.5                    56.0
Underrun ()                                   -                       172
Loan Amount (US$ million)                       28.5                    23.8
Disbursed June 30, 1985                      28.5                    12.3
Cancelled (June 30, 1988)                     -                       4.7
Physical Components Completed               12/84                   12/87
Proportion Completed by
Appraisal Target Date                        1001                     70%
Proportion of Time Overrun (2)                                        401
Institutional Performance                                            weak
Financial Performance                         -            worse than expected
Economic Rate of Return (2)                  27                      30
Staff Input (Staffweeks)
£121       n     21   21    AR   11   l2    U              Al   Ufi    1    1    I toA1
Preappraisal   .9  2.2  9.6  20.1  25.0                                                        57.8
Appraisal                           79.8                                                       79.8
Negotiation                          6.9                                                        6.9
Supervision                               26.0  25.2  27.3  19.a  6.S  16.3  11.8  7.5  1.l   141.5
Other                                1.0   .1           .8         .6                           2.5
Total         .9  2.2  9.6  20.1  112.8  26.1  25.2  28.1  19.8  7.0  16.3  11.8  7.5  1.1   288.6
tulative Disbursements
US$ Million
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Appraisal Estimate          4.4   13.4   19.3   24.0   27.5   28.5   28.5   28.5
Actual             -        0.1    1.6    2.8    6.5    9.2   12.3   15.7   23.8
Actual as 1 of Appraisal   2       12     15      27     33      47     55      84
Date of Latest Disbursement July 2, 1987
Pro;ect Dates
Original Plan                   Actual
Identification                                                           6/76
Preparation                                                              3/78
Appraisal                                                               10/78
Negotiations                                                       5/24-25/79
Board Presentation                                                      6/28/79
Date Signed                                                             7/20/79
Loan gffectiveness                       10/18/79
Revision I                       12/31/79
Revision II                       3/31/80
Revision III                      5/31/80                        5/14/80
Loan Closing                              6/30/85                       12/31/86
095 9C



- iii -
Mission Data
Date    No. of  Mandays   Specializations   Perf.                  Type of
Mission Date   (Mo/Yr)  Persons  in Field   Represented 1/  Rating 2/  Trend 3/  Problems 4/
Identification     6/76
Preparation         3/78
Appraisal         10/78
Supervision I      8/79    3          15         ABF               1        2          MT
II     12/79    2          12        DB                2        2           MT
III     3/80    1           6        A                 2        2           F
IV      8/80    3          12        FBD               2        1           FM
V       7/81    2           6        AD                2         1          FM
VI     12/81    2           6        DD                2         3          FM
VII     1/82    1           8        D                 2         3          FM
VIII    3/82    3           6        ABD               2         2          FM
IX      6/82    2           8        AB                2        1           FM
X      10/82    3           8        ABD               2         2          FM
XI      5/83    2           3        AC                2        2           M
XII    10/83    2           5        AB                2         1          M
XIII   11/84    2           5        CB                2         1          M
XIV     5/85    2           7        CB                2         1          M
XV      5/86    1           8        D                 -        -           -
Total Supervision                  249 = 49.e staffweeks
1/  A = Financial Analyst, B 5 Naval Architect, C = Economist, D = Ports Engineer
F = Credit Specialist
2/ 1 = Problem Free, 2 = Moderate Problems, 3 = Major Problems
3/ 1 = Improving, 2 = Stationary, 3 = Deteriorating
_/ M = Managerial, T = Technical, F = Financial
Other Proiect Data
Borrower: Republic of Tunisia
Executing Agencies: Commissariat General a la Peche
: Banque Nationale de Tunisie
Fiscal Year of Borrower:  January 1 - December 31
Name of Currency: Tunisian Dinar (D)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average               US$l = D 0.400
Intervening Years Average            US$l = D 0.735
Completion Year (1987) Average       US$1 = D 0.87



- iv -
TUNISIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1746-TU14)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Iltm&eduetion
The sea bordering the Tunisian coast is richly endowed with fish in
comparison to other countries bordering tue Mediterranean. Since the late
sixties the Tunisian Government has put increasing emphasis on fish production
to satisfy local demand and, increasingly, tourist and export markets.
Whereas between 1971 and 1981 production grew at an annual rate of about 6.62,
the rate increased to an average 12.5% during 1982-1985, with annual
production rising from 62,750 t of fish in 1982 to around 88,895 t in 1985.
To assist its development plans for the fishery sector, the Government
requested the Bank in 1970 to assist in financing fishery investments and the
First Fisheries Project (Cr. 270-TUN) started in 1972. In 1976, during
implementation of the First Project, a request was made for a Second Project,
the subject of this report.
2.       The principal objective of the project was to increase fish
production to satisfy local demand and exports. Specific project goals were:
'i) to increase fish production by about 8,760 t annually which was to be
achieved through construction of ten fishing ports and by financing about 430
newly designed fishing vessels, and (ii) support for institutional
developments, particularly creation of the "Departement a la Peche" and
strengthening of the Banque National de Tunisie (BNT) and of fishery extension
activities.
hnplementation Experience
3.       Although the project did not entirely achieve its objectives, its
civil works (ports construction) cc-zonent was a reasonable success (para 4),
boat construction targets were achiev-ed and the re-estimated economic rate of
return has been fully adequate (para 6.03). The credit program used to
finance boat construction was, however, a serious failure largely due to major
problems with credit repayment (para 6) and the unfortunate timing of
ultimately successful vessel design activities.
4.       Implementation of the port component was affected by very high bid
prices at tender. Various actions were taken to reduce the costs, including
an evaluation of alternative port designs, and reduction of auxiliary works.
Final costs of the port contracts exceeded appraisal estimates by 302, and



- V 
cost overruns were largely financed by the Government. Although construction
was delayed for some ports, all ports appear to function in a reasonable
fashion at present. Three ports experienced technical problems, for which
special studies were made. Actual fishlandings at most ports substantially
exceed appraisal estimates; the ports appear to have been a useful and
justifiable component of the project.
5.       The Project Completion Report (PCR) of 'he First Fisheries Project"'
provided a number of lessons concerning timing of design of new fishing
vessels, procurement of vessels and engines, and credit arrangements. The
Government and the Bank's appraisal misi;ion. however, did not fully incorporate
these lessons in the design of the Second Project partly because they were not
yet fully recognized at Government's level at the time of appraisal. As a
result, some of the mistakes made in the First Project were repeated in the
Second. In addition, the final design and testing process of the two new types
of fishing vessels to be financed under the credit program of the project were
not completed prior to start-up of procurement and credit operations. As a
result procurement was delayed, fishermen trust in the new vessels impaired,
and credit repayment affected. When after initial testing it became apparent
the newly designed vessels needed further modifications, and required exte.-aive
demonstration to convince fishermen the final design was sound, a decisiov
could well have been taken to start project financing of traditional vessels of
existing designs. Instead, the Bank urged BNT that the design be completed
soonest to start up the credit program, a decision which put unnecessary
pressure on the design and testing p.ocess and disregarded the major problems
affecting the credit program (para 6). As a result procurement of hulls and
engines became quite complicated due to the continuing changes in the vessel
designs. Despite these problems, final procurement arrangements for vessel
hulls and engines, although far from idpal provided fishermen with some choice
of equipment, an essential requirement for fishery credit. The direct
involvement of the Bank in the vessel design process proved quite costly; it
would have been better if bilateral or multilateral grant funds had been used
for this component instaad of Bank supervision funds. Nevertheless, the
designs which resulted from these efforts appear to have been successful, and
the effort proved worthwhile.
6.       The credit program for the fishery sector operated by BNT during the
First Project demonstrated substantial weaknesses in the lending procedures and
credit approval process; as a result, loan recovery was very low. Although
some steps were taken to initiate improvements and increase recovery of fishery
loans prior to and during the Second Project, no substantial improvement took
place. One key reason for this is that BNT was not given primary
responsibility for lending decisions, and decisions were not based on the past
and expected performance of the beneficiaries. The Government and the Bank's
failure to solve the problems of fishery credit operations in Tunisia on time
was par.icularly unfortunate as between 1980 and 1983 virtually no new fishery
loans were issued, pending completion of the design and testing of the new
vessels, and adequate time would have been available to take action. The
1/ Tunisia, First Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN), Project Performance
Audit Report, Report No. 3753, paras. 34-54 and lessons quoted in
Highlights.



- vi -
Government ar.d the Bank appear to have been insufficiently determined in
convincing the Fishery Authority and BNT management that more effective
arrangements were required to improve loan recovery and the quality of new
loans. Such a package of measures should have included arrangements to: (i)
deal with abandoned vessels; (ii) address outstanding technical issues of
operational vessels, built under the First Project; (iii) effectively force
willful defaulters to repay by refusing to issue new fishing licenses;
(iv) review all loans on a case by case basis; (v) introduce effective loan
supervision by appointing more fishery credit officers and making them more
responsible for lending decisions; and (vi) to limit fishery credit to those
areas where the above program had been put in place. Because action of the
Fishery Authority and BNT to implement some of the above points was generally
not very effective, the repayment performance of loa..s made under the Second
Project was worse than those under the First: Recovery of loans made under
the First Project is only about 25% of amounts due in 1988; initial recovery
of loans made under the Second Project reportedly is about 3% in 1988; in
assessing the importance of this figure one should take account of the fact
that most loans were issued in 1986 and 1987 wit'. no grace period. The Bank
should have pushed harder the consideration of postponing credit operations
under the project until adequate steps had been put in place to assure sound
fishery lending practices, and of dropping the requirement for fishermen to
commence repayment before delivery of fishing boats-
7.       Other components of the project, notably the extension program and
shore facilities for the ports were reduced during project implementation.
The fishery extension component appears to have been ill conceived, although
ultimately three mobile extension centers have been put in place. Their
operational value appears limited. The reduction in shore facilities followed
an increase in private investment in such facilities.
Results
8.       The project was successful in creating needed infrastructure for the
fishing sector, but its major objective, increasing fish production, was only
partly achieved. Average catches of project fishing vessels was only about
552 of appraisal estimates. The project achieved its vessel construction
targets, be it about four years later. In total 476 fishing vessels were
constructed. But despite the low catches vessels remained profitable, as fish
prices increased much faster that estimated at appraisal. The effectiveness
of most of the harbours also exceeded appraisal estimates; actual fish
landings notably of the existing fleet, exceeded those estimates at appraisal
by about 372 in 1987. The project experienced substantial cost increases in
its ports component in terms of local currency; in terms of the rapidly
appreciating US Dollars, actual project costs were well below appraisal
estimates; no proposal was made to increase the disbursement percentage for
civil works. Nevertheless the cost overrun in terms of local currency forced
the Government to substantially increase its contribution to the project,
while US$4.7 million of the Bank loan were cancelled. The economic rate of
1/ The borrower has noted that recovery under the Second Fisheries Project
was particularly affected by the inappropriate repayment requirements for
individual loans, which in fact required fishermen to repay loans well
before delivery of the vessel.



- vii -
return of the project, calculated at 27% during appraisal, has been
reestimated at 302. The effects of delays in construction, and lower than
expected fish production are more than compensated for by fish price
inc:eases, and by the positive effect the new ports have had on the
productivity of existing vessels. Cost recovery measures for the ports
constructed under the project have not been successful; these should have been
focussed more on indirect recovery systems. The training component of the
project was poorly designed and has not been effective.
9.       There is currently no need for the Bank to initiate further lending
for marine fisheries; most of the ports needed by the fishing sector have been
constructed. However, the channel to finance fishing vessels still aeeds
improvements. The Bank should continue to aim at improving the performance of
BNT in the fishery sector through its ongoing agricultural credit projects.
BNT currently finances fisheries in a highly selective manner, as part of the
BNT 4 project.
FindinAs and Lessons
10.      The project caused fish production in Tunisia to increase, but less
than expected, and it was economically highly successful, but will probably
not be successful from the financial (Government finance) viewpoint. Without
the project, production would not have increased so much; this might have
caused fishprices to increase even faster than occurred during project
implementation. Notably the fishery harbour component appears to have been
well conceived. Although ultimately verisel designs acceptaule to the
fishermen were completed, it reauired continuing modificatioa to adjust to
different circumstances prevailing along various parts of th: coast. And
because the designs of the vessels were directly linked to proccrement and
credit, substantial delays occurred in those operations. Lack of
determination on the part of the Bank, Government and BNT caused ill conceived
fishery credit practices inherited from the First Fisheries Project to
continue. The result is a serious accumulation of highly doubtful arrears,
and it is now difficult to correct this repayment performance which puts into
doubt the replicability of project action. The project's aim of improving the
performance of fishery extension was not fully achieved, largely because it
was not well conceived. Efforts at addressing direct cost recovery issues do
not appear to have been very effective. In this project, where fishermen have
the alternative of landing fish on the beach, it would have been preferable to
introduce indirect cost recovery measures only. Finally, the project
successfully completed studies to improve fish stock assessment and to design
two other harbours which subsequently have been constructed with bilateral
assistance.
11.      Various lessons can be learned from the implementation experience of
the project:
(i) If a project intends to use an existing credit system to finance
vessels, it appears desirable to make all possible efforts to improve
loan approval, distribution and recovery systems to acceptable levels
prior to starting the new credit program;



- viii -
(ii) If new types of fishing vessels are to be introduced, adequate time,
financing and technical assistance should be made available for a
thorough testing program;
(iii) No standard design should be accepted for a fishing vessel if it is
intended for a non-homogeneous fishery; in general the choice of
vessels and engines in a fishery project should be left compl.etely
with the fishermen;
(iv)  Fishing vessels of an untested desigl should under no circumstance be
financed by a fishery credit program;
(v) In a fishery credit program it is preferable to let fishermen select
the engine of their choice. If, due to shortages of foreign exchange,
it is unavoidable to procure engines in bulk, evaluation of bids
should give adequate weight to fishermen preferences;
(vi) The creation of a new central agency in charge of the fishery sector
was a success because it was arranged prior to Board presentation, and
becauee the local authorities were convinced of the need for
institutional change.
12.      The medium-term agricultural adjustment program (1987-91), which the
Government of Tunisia agreed to implement in connection with the first
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, contains an action plan of measures
designed to achieve major reforms in the credit systems. In July 1987 the
Bank approved the BNT4 Project in support of this adjustment program, with a
view to promoting the development of a sound rural credit system.  Under the
BNT project, lending to fishermen is now highly selective, strictly limited
(no new fleet financing), and targeted to private fishermen who have a
demonstrated record of fishing performance and a credit recovery rate of at
least 90X.



TUNISIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LN. 1746-TUN)
I. BACKGROUND
A. Resources
1.01     Fish resources in Tunisia's waters have been estimated to yield on a
sustainable basis about 200,000 mt of fish, of which some 30% would be
demersal (bottom dwelling) species; the rest constitutes small pelagic species
(sardines) which mainly occur in coastal areas.  Demersal species, which in
1977 were biologically under exploited, in coastal areas appear at present
exploited beyond their biologically optimum level; pelagic species are still
substantially under exploited. Demersal species are caught by trawlers (30%
of total demersal catch); the rest is caught by artisanal fishermen fishing
with some 2,700 mechanized and 4,800 non-mechanized vessels. Pelagic species
are caught largely by specialized sardine boats.  The substantial growth of
fish production since 1977 has been predominantly of demersal fish; the
proportion of coastal pelagic fish has remained largely static: 362 of the
total catch in 1981 as against 392 in 1985.
B. Sector Setting
1.02     At the time of appraisal of the Second Fisheries Project production
of fish was growing at an average annual rate of 9.9X, well above that
experienced by the agricultural sector (6.72 p.a.). However, in spite of this
high production growth, the Government felt that total volume of fish
production (54,000 mt in 1977) was highly inadequate and well below the
potential catch and the potential demand for fish products. Per capita
consumption in 1977 was only 7 kg. Consequently, the Fifth Plan (1977-1982)
aimed at a major further expansion of the production level. Actual production
rose to 62,752 mt in 1982, 88,895 mt in 1985, and to over 99,184 nit in 1987.
In 1985 the fisheries sector constituted 11% of the agriculture sector GDP and
generated 21% of the agricultural sector's foreign exchange earnings.  The
formidable growth in annual production of fish since 1977 was made possible by
a rapid growth in local demand, in part fuelled by a booming tourist industry,
and by growing exports.  But the encouraging development of the subsector
resulted essentially from measures taken by the Government to promote
production growth. With considerable fish resources at its disposal, and with
50% of all fishery activities carried out by artisanal fishermen, the
Government felt that development activities during the Fifth Five Year Plan
should particularly focus on developient of artisanal fisheries. In 1976,
Tunisia had 45 fish landing places, of which only a limited number had full
fledged fishing harbor facilities. These were particularly used by the
trawler and sardine fleet. Most of Tunisia's artisarnal vessels at that time
operated from unprotected landing places, without any supporting shore
facilities. It was felt that the lack of such port facilities substantially
reduced the average number of fishing days of many fishing boats. Hence, the
Fifth Plan envisaged a rapid expansion of port facilities for the artisanal
fleet. The Government facilitated construction of a total of 33 ports, shore



facilities and (between 1982 and 1985) almost 600 vessels. The support for
vessel construction by the Government was pursued in part through
concessionary credit and subsidies through a special Government fund (Fonds
Sp6cial d' Encourogement a la Peche - FOSEP) administered by the Banque
National de Tunisie - BNT. Subsidies amounted to up to 20%, still well below
the 40% subsidies available for agriculture investments.
II. The First Fisheries Project (Cr. 270-TUN)
2.01     IDA's First Fisheries Project was designedi to help initiate a
modernization of Tunisia's artisanal fishing fleet. The project was completed
in 1980, and a Project Performance Audit Report was finalized in 1981. In
addition to modernizing Tunisia's fishing fleet, the project also aimed at
reinforcing institutions responsible for the fisheries subsector and, for
credit to fishermen and providing overseas training. The main project
objective was to enable the proposed 335 project-financed boats to increase
production of inshore demersal fish by about 552 through providing better
fishing gear, improving vessel efficiency and an increase in the number and
duration of fishing trips.
2.02     The project only partially succeeded in achieving its original
objectives. Boat unit costs turned out to be about 57% more than appraisal
estimates mainly because of lack of detailed design as a basis for cost
estimates, project-start up and implementation delays and inflatior-iry
pressure in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis. The total number of boats had to
be reduced to 190 and most of the planned improved design features had to be
eliminated to cut costs. Frequent engine breakdowns were experienced with
excessive repair times resulting in some resistance among fishermen to buy the
new boats.  The last boat was sold in January 1980, three years after the
target closing date.  The project particularly experienced problems with the
ICB procurement of engines; the lowest evaluated bid concerned engines unknown
in Tunisia, and of a design unsuited to the hulls which eventually were
constructed. BNT which was in charge of administering the fishery credit
component, did not have the number of field staff necessary to fully handle
fishery loans. Recovery performance for boat loans had been poor (recovery in
1980 was 61 and has subsequently improved to 25%) mostly because (i) BNT was
not made responsible for loan approvals and recovery; (ii) it lacked fishery
expertise; and (iii) because of technical difficulties encountered by
fishermen. In September 1980, 151 boats were fully operational, 12 boats had
sunk and 24 were immobilized and partly abandoned by their owners. Production
per boat was less than half of appraisal estimates. Despite the low catch
figures, more than aalf of all boats had acceptable (21-31X) rates of return
because fish prices rose faster than inflation; for the same reason, the
project's ERR was higher (431) than estimated at appraisal.
2.03     The project audit 1' gave a number of lessons which are
particularly relevant to the Second Fisheries Project: (i) in selecting
engines and vessels for a fishery project, adequate weight should be given to
fishermen preferences; (ii) the need for firm and appropriate arrangements
regarding loan recovery from inshore fishermen; and (iii) with
inshore/artisanal type fisheries, it is counter-productive to attempt to force
1/ Tunisia, First Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN), Project Performance
Audit Report, Report No. 3753 paras. 34-54 and lessons quoted in
Highlights.



- 3 -
the pace of technical progress unless the p ogram follows a period of trial
and demonstration. The PPAR also concluded that the institutional performance
of shipyards in charge of hull construction under close supervision of a naval
architect had been very satisfactory.
III. PROJECT FORMNULAT1ON
A. Identification and Preparation
3.01     In 1976, when the First Fisheries Project started experiencing
increasing problems with loan recovery and deteriorating vessel performance,
an FAO/CP mission identified the Second Project. Based on two local
engineering studies, 1/ the mission identified a project based on the
integrated development of the sector, and recommended development of 12 sites
for harbor development for coastal fisheries. The mission also recommended
that additional engineering studies be carried out to arrive at preliminary
designs for each site. Following considerable delay in recruitment of
engineering consultants, designs were finalized in 1978. Because the proposed
project included a line of credit for fishing vessels, steps were undertaken
under the First Fisheries Project to improve loan recovery procedures,
including assignment of some additional staff to help improve collection of
fisheries loans. Unfortunately, no steps were taken yet to initiate detailed
design, construction, and sea trials of the two new types of fishing vessels
which the Second Project was envisaged to finance.
3.02     In 1976 various Government agencies were involved in the fishing
Sector. Following identification it was felt there was a need to establish a
coordinating body, or entrust a single Government agency with overall
responsibility for project execution. In addition, a consultant was hired to
study a suitable form of organization which would be in charge of fishing
harbors. The result of this study and the engineering studies were reviewed
by a joint FAO/CP/Bank mission in early 1978; no formal preparation mission
took place. The project was appraised seven months later.
B. Appraisal
3.03     The project as finally appraised had as its objective to increase
fish production by means of: (i) construction of ten fishing ports, (two sites
were found unacceptable during appraisal); (ii) provision of credit through
BNT for boats of 11 and 13 m length, fishing gear and 40 trnicks; (iii)
technical assistance and 10 mobile instruction units for fisheries extension;
(iv) equipment and shore facilities for existing ports; and (v) studies for
future projects, resources and lagoon fisheries. The mission recommended to
link the project to an institutional reorganization of the fisheries sector;
it suggested to create a new authority to be in charge of all non-commercial
fisheries activities including administration of port infrastructure.
Esitablishment of the Authority would be a condition of negotiations. The
mission also recommended that, despite the unsatisfactory experience with loan
1/ Development of fishing ports had been studied during 1973/77 by two local
engineering firms, which had made proposals for development of about 12
harbors.



recovery during the First Project, a line of credit be provided to BNT to
finance fishing vessels. It proposed that cooperatives be used to improve
loan collection, BNT install agents in all major ports and agree to a program
of improvement of loan recovery (40Z in 1979 and 75Z by 1982). The mission
recommended against full cost recovery of the port investments, citing the
lack of existing user charges; in order to achieve full cost recovery harbor
duties would have to reach very high levels, discouraging fishermen from using
the ports. However, the appraisal report noted that a cost recovery study be
carried out by 1980 to determine the basis and terms and conditions of port
fees. The Government agreed to implement a cost recovery system by the end of
1982. The Government also agreed that through taxes, duties, port and rental
fees it would recover all operating and maintenance costs, and 80Z of total
investment costs.
3.0     Total costs of the project were estimated at D 27.0 million (US$67.5
million) of which 42% foreign exchange. The prc4ect would be executed by the
to be established Fisheries Authority, while the Harbor Department would be
the executing agency for construction of the ports.
3.05     Construction of the ports would be procured through ICB.  In
addition, contracts not exceeding US$250,000 equivalent for civil works, with
an aggregate value not exceeding US$750,000 could be tendered locally. Port
contracts would be grouped in three lots, each valued at about US$8.5
million. Similarly, three contracts would be let for civil works of shore
facilities, while equipment for all new and existing ports would be combined
in one ICB contract. Hulls for fishing vessels would be procured by the
Fisheries Authority on the basis of loc.A competitive bidding (a similar
arrangement had been applied in the First Fisheries Project). Vessel engines
would be procured under ICB procedures, although the SAR specified that two
suppliers could be awarded the contract in order to take some account of the
fishermen's preferences. It was assumed that for the hulls and the engines
contracts would be phased over time, each separate contract covering the
supply during about 18 months.  In addition, upon the special request of
fishermen, fully equipped ferro-cement or fiberglass boats could be purchased
through negotiated contracts, with an annual limit of US$100,000.
3.06     The project was expected to create an incremental production of about
8,600 tons of fish. The estimated Economic Rate of Return of the project
(272) was based on the assumption that demand for fish in the local market
would continue to exceed supply, and that fish prices in real terms would
continue increasing at an annual rate of 6Z until 1985, 4.8% up to 1990, and
3.62 thereafter. The increased production would largely come from the new
boats; it was also assumed that without the project 20Z of the existing fleet
of rowing and sailing boats would withdraw from fishing.
IV. PROJECT START-UP
A. Effectiveness and Start-up
4.01     The Project was approved June 28, 1979.  The Effectiveness Date,
originally set for October 18, 1979, was extended three times. The actual
Effectiveness Date was May 14, 1980. The delays were mainly due to slow
progress in finalization of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and in the
ratification of the establishment of the Fishery Authority.



-5-
B. Revisions
4.02     Several revisions have been made in the legal documents of the
project. In Septembex 1982 it was agreed to: (i) reduce the amount of shore
equipment in existing harbors, reflecting increasing investment of private
parties; (ii) reduce the number of mobile extension units from 10 to 3, which
reflected the limited implementation capacity of the Fishery Authority;
(iii) to allow fishermen to procure fishing gear directly from local dealers
rather than under a bulk procurement arrangement; and (iv) reducing the number
of trucks in the project from 40 to 24, and those trucks to be sold, not
leased to fishermen cooperatives and private operators.
C. Procurement
4.03     Ports.  Nine bidders tendered for the three port contracts.  The
three lowest bids totalled D 14,9 million, or about 50% higher than appraisal
estimates (see para 4.04).  Following a request from the Tunisian Authorities
the Bank discussed what action could be taken to reduce the costs. During the
consultation with Tunisian representatives in Washington it was decided to:
(i) award contracts for two groups of harbors to the two lowest evaluated
bidders for each group; tii) allow the Tunisian authorities to enter into
negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidders with a view to reduce the costs
of certain items (reference to para 3.10 of the Guidelines). In case a
satisfactory contract could not be achieved, negotiations with the second
lowest bidder would be entered into. Concerning the third group, it was
decided to request the lowest bidder to elaborate on a proposal to construct
the harbors in an alternative, cheaper way. After evaluation of the proposal
to determine whether the alternative would be technically feasible, a decision
on award of contract would be made. After determining the lowest evaluated
bidder for this contract, negotiations would be entered into to reduce its
costs, similar to the other two contracts. If negotiations would be
ineffective in substantially reduce construction costs for each contract, the
Tunisian authorities intended to reduce the scope of some of the works,
without affecting the basic functions of the ports. The technical evaluation
of the alternative technical solution was mixed; it waa only applied in one
port (Ennajet). After having awarded the contract for the third group of
harbors to the lowest evaluated bidder, the Tunisian authorities succeeded in
reducing the cost overruns by 40% by applying the alternative technique in one
port, negotiating on certain cost items, and reducing the number of jetties in
i        some ports.  Final costs of the three contracts exceeded appraisal estimates
by about 30%.  The cost overruns were largely financed by the Government.
4.04     The reasons for the high bids were several: unit prices were
underestimated by consultants, price contingencies of 6% annually used in the
appraisal report were too low, the tender disallowed price increases for the
foreign exchange component, and the completion period of 30 months was
considered too short. During implementation it was found that the quantities
of certain items in the tender documer.ts were considerably underestimated;
these underestimates were estimated at about TD 0.4 million (US$1 million).
Necessary design improvements added another TD 0.15 million (US$0.4 million).
During implementation several variation orders under present contracts and new
contracts for additional works were signed. Because construction was delayed
in many instances, price escalation clauses were introduced in originally



-6-
fixed price contracts; the rate of increase was generally about 12%. Total
costs of variation orders was about D 836,000 (US$1.1 million). Prior to the
Closing Date (December 31, 1985) additional contracts for civil works were
awarded through LCB valued at D 1.084 million (US$1.4 million). Although at
odds with the Bank's rules for procurement and with the Loan Agreement, the
Bank decided to finance these contracts anyway because from an engineering
point of view, and from the point of view of sound management of rablic
affairs procurement and contract award were considered reasonable.  The legal
agreeuients specified that LCB contracts for civil works should not exceed
US$750,000.
4.05     Vessel Hulls and Engines.  As discussed in para 2.03, the PPAR of the
First Fisheries Project provided a number of lessons concerning design of
inshore fishing vessels, procurement of such vessels, and credit
arrangements. However, although these lfissons were not fully disseminated
until late 1981, i.e., after appraisal of the Second Project, Bank staff and
Government officials were informed of the main problems of the project.
Nevertheless, arrangements which were agreed after the appraisal of the Second
Project were virtually similar to those which would be criticized in the PPAR
of the First Project: (i) the credit program again involved untested,
unaccepted vessel designs, one vessel type of modified design of 11.25 m and a
vessel of completely new design of 13.80 m; (ii) hulls and engines would again
be procured in bulk, but separately, using local and international competitive
bidding respectively; and (iii) existing credit arrangements were largely
accepted. Although the ICB arrangement for engines was modified to allow for
contract award to two suppliers, the proposed arrangements did not eliminate
the chance that the fishermen would again be forced to accept unpopular, or
unknown engines.
4.06     Vessel Design and Procurement.  The project aimed at improving the
efficiency of the existing 11.25 m vessel by creating a new deck layout and
other relatively minor changes in the hull design. General design for the
boat (and the 13.80 m vessel) had been prepared during and after appraisal by
a consultant naval architect. During various visits the general design was
modified to reflect views of various parties including the fishermer in
Tunisia. The Fishery Authority did not have a naval architect to translate
the general design into detailed construction drawings. For this purpose a
separate naval architect was hired, which resulted in some delays. Meanwhile
discussions concerning the design of the vessels and their equipment
continued. When detailed design had been completed construction of hulls of
the 11.25 m boat was tendered without testing a prototype vessel, and bids
were received in September 1980. Two major boat yards in the country, which
had been involved in construction of vessels for the First Fisheries Project,
refused to bid, claiming they considered the boat would not perform as
required. The bids actually received ranged from D 13,000 to D 30,000,
compared with an appraisal estimate of D 7,000. The Fishery Authority decided
to withhold action on procurement of the hulls and engines until prototypes
could be built and demonstrated to test the vessels' speed and adaptability
for local fishing conditions. Similarly, the 13.80 vessel would not be
procured until a prototype had been tested.
4.07     The first tests of the vessel (with an engine different from the ones
which would be procured under the Second Project) were positive. The Fishery
Authority then retendered for the hulls, following an acknowledgment of the
two major local boat yards to participate in the bidding. Prices now varied



- 7 -
between D 10.500 and D 26.600, which would cause fully equipped boats to cost
about 50% over appraisal estimates. This result caused Bank staff to review
the bulk procurement procedure for the hulls of the vessels. The PPAR of the
First Fisheries Project had suggested that it would have been better to let
fishermen make their own arrangements for hull construction, and that BNT
would finance the actual construction costs of each individual hull.
Ultimately, after considerable discussions, it was decided that a fundamental
change be made in the procurement procedure. Whereas under the First Project
the Fisheries Authority made a firm order to the yards for a predetermined
number of boats, the Authority now intended to order hulls progressively as
they were ordered by the fishermen. Therefore it signed delivery agreements
with a number of yards, which would not imply any obligation to purchase.
Each yard agreed to deliver a maximum number of hulls during a specified
period for a specified price. That price was fixed for all yards following
negotiations at D 12.000 for the 11.25 m vessel and D 16.300 for the 13.80 m
vessel. The price was 46% above appraisal estimates (without price
contingencies) for the 11.25 vessel, and slightly below appraisal estimates
for the larger vessel. For the 13.8 m vessels it became soon apparent that
the negotiated price was too low, and new negotiations were held to determine
a more reasonable price.
4.08     The design of the vessels continued to be discussed and further
changes were made at individual yards throughout the project implemeutation
period. This is a normal practice, as most fishing vessel designs continue to
evolve to reflect local requirements and individual preferences of local
*          fishermen.  The first vessel used for demonstration to fishermen (the second
j          vessel built) had its engine wrongly installed which caused a power loss of
almost 50b.  Fishermen in the northern area of the country then insisted on a
bigger engine, while fishermen in the south, which experiences usually calmer
seas, asked for a smaller boat. Ultimately the engines selected for the
project boats were accepted in both areas. The deck layout demands for both
areas appeared different, and this caused boatyards to make further design
adjustments. Substantial time and effort was also spent on testing and
procuring net haulers on the vessels.
4.09     Procurement of Engines.  Procurement of the engines became quite
complicated as a result of the continuing changes in the design of the
vessels. Initial specifications had to be adjusted, even after tenders had
been received, to suit the vessel design and performance characteristics.
Delays in construction of the test vessels (para 4.07) ar.d adjustment of the
specifications caused further delays. Ultimately, two suppliers (of which one
local) were awarded contracts for the 11.25 m vessel engines, and one supplier
for the 13.80 m vessel engines. Because demand for the 13.80 vessel far
exceeded appraisal estimates (85 vessels were ultimately constructed) the
contract with the supplier was extended to cover the additional engines.
Fishermen reportedly selected only one type of engine for the smaller boat.
4.10     Design of the vessels and the procurement procedures followed proved
less than optimal. The conclusion of the PPAR of the First Fisheries Project
that new vessel designs should be properly tested is equally valid for the
Second Project. The credit program should not have focussed on the new
designs until testing, trials and demonstrations had been properly executed.
Such testing is usually time consuming; IDA's experience in other parts of the
world indicate a minimum of four to five years. In the meantime, traditional



- 8 -
vessels might have been constructed under the credit program. The arrangement
of bulk procurement of vessel hulls and engines proved time consuming and
cumbersome and could have led to technical problems. One should not procure
engines or vessel hulls in bulk while the design and testing process of the
vessels has not been finalized. Also although the experience of the First
Fisheries Project with selection of an engine which was not accepted by the
fishermen was not repeated, the procedure of not incorporating fishermen
preferences in the evaluation procedure could have resulted in an equally
unacceptable contract award. It was unfortunate that the engine contract did
not specify that additional engines might be required. When demand for the
13.80 m vessel engines increased, price negotiations proved necessary at two
different occasions. The arrangement of open contracts with the boat yards
proved quite efficient; it is unclear whether an alternative arrangement of
free choice of the fishermen to order construction of a vessel for an
individually negotiated price would have been more efficient. Nevertheless,
experience of fishery credit programs in other parts of the world indicate
that if at all possible, fishermen should be allowed to select freely their
own hull, engine and boatbuilder, without the credit supplier dictating or
limiting his choice.
V. CONSTRUCTION IMPLEMENTATION
A. Imolementation Schedule
5.01     Project implementation started slowly as Loan Effectiveness was
delayed by six months. The credit component experienced subdtantial delays as
a result of the design and procurement problems discussed above. In fact, the
credit program only started in earnest in 1984 to finance vessel construction;
virtually all vessels were ordered in 1984 and 1985. Construction of the
ports was initially also delayed because of procurement problems. Several
technical issues delayed construction so that by the completion date (December
31, 1984), only three ports out of ten were fully completed. The other seven
were completed over the next 3 years; the last one was reportedly completed by
the end of 1987. The project Closing Date was extended once by six months. A
further extension was rejected because of the unacceptable loan recovery
performance on BNT fishery loan portfolio. After the Closing Date the books
were kept open for six months, this period was then extended to 12 months.
After the 12 month period it was decided to retroactively extend the Closing
Date for a second time by one year (until December 31, 1986) and keep the
books open until June 30, 1987. In March 1987 US$3 million of the uncommitted
savings of the project were cancelled. When the books were closed in July
1°37 an additional US$1.684 million was cancelled.
B. Port Component
5.02     Construction of the ten ports of the project was undertaken by three
construction companies. The ports of Sidi Daoud, Beni Khiar and Hergla in
northwest Tunisia were constructed by one contractor, Zarat, Boughrara and
Adjim in the south by a second contractor, and Salakta, Louata, Ennajet and
Mab res in the center by the third. Actual construction started in July 1980
for the first group, November 1980 for the second, and June 1981 for the third.



- 9 -
5.03     Construction of some of the harbors took more time than estimated at
appraisal. At appraisal it was estimated construction of port infrastructure
and superstructure would be fully completed by the end of 1982. As of Mav
1985 infrastructure was 90% completed, and superstructure 70X. All
construction activities were reportedly fully completed by the end of 1987.
5.04     All three firms had some start-up delays, but some of these initial
delays were generally quickly recovered.  The first port to be completed was
Hergla (mid 1982). No problems were experienced in its construction, and
quality of workmanship was high. The other ports in this group (Beni Khiar
*         and Sidi Daoud) were completed without major problems and to a high technical
standard by the end of 1983.
5.05     Of the three southern ports Zarat, which is situated at a larger,
protected bay, experienced substantial siltation problems once construction
started; in addition, the port experienced abnormal wave patterns within the
harbor. Studies were undertaken to examine the problems, and additional works
were reported to have been completed by January 1988 to deal with the
problems. The ports of Adjim and Boughrara experienced general delays in
construction, in part due to construction planning. Both ports were
reportedly completed by the end of 1985; no major technical problems have been
reported during construction.
5.06     The third group of ports experienced most problems.  As of the end of
1984, the ports of Salakta and Louata were largely finished, but those of
Ennajet and Mahres were only half complete and would experience substantial
further delays. .ack of suitable rock on the island of Kerkenah, on which the
port of Cunajet was located, caused works to be halted for over two years
until an acceptable solution was agreed upon. Although the issue at Ennajet
was raised in March 1982, as of November 1984 no decision had been taken.
Ultimately the port was constructed with the use of concrete blocks; no date
is available for its final completion. The reasons for the long delay are
unclear. During the last technical supervision of the project (October '82)
it was noted the contractors had yet to provide details of their proposal to
use locally available rock. At the port of Mahares similar problems with the
availability of suitable stone and sand were experienced. The contractor had
to explore four quarries in order to find the right material.  As a result,
the contractor stopped work for six months, and as of the end of 1984 only 60%
of the infrastructure had been completed, and none of the superstructure. All
works were reportedly completed by 1987.
5.07     Although completion of some of the ports was substantially delayed,
there is little doubt they appear highly effective in providing shelter to
local fishing fleets. A review of the use of the ports in 1988 revealed that
at ports noted below actual fish landings in 1987 exceeded those estimated at
appraisal by 37Z.



- 10 -
Table 5.1: Fishlandings (as estimated during appraisal, and actuals)
for selected Tunisian Fishing Ports (1984-1987)
Appraisal
Projection for                       Actual Traffic
1984      1985      1987            1984       1985      1987
(Year 1)
(t)                                 (t)
Sidi Daoud        192        334       700             411        393       507
Ben Khiar          88         88       800             266        412       489
Hergla              31        31       700             112        116       169
Salakta           245        315       500             337        483       563
Louata          1,070      1,490     1,750           2,843     3,485      4,360
Mahares           823        823     1,000           1,723      1,883       759
Bou Ghrara        291        291       750             845      1,340     1,753
Adjim             754        754     1,200           1,208      1,494     1,510
3,494     4,126      7,400          7,745      9,606    10,115
There appears little doubt that the ports do play an important role in
increasing Tunisia's fish production, and were a justifiable component of the
project.
5.08     The actual costs of the ports if calculated in Tunisian Dinars
(D 23,6 million, of which 40% foreign exchange) exceeded appraisal estimates
by almost 95X, however in terms of US dollars actual costs (US$35 million)
were only 16% higher than appraisal estimates, reflecting the rapid
appreciation of the US dollar during the construction period. The increase in
costs in terms of Dinars cattsed the Government share of the costs to increase
by about 85X; these additional resources were fully provided by the
Government, and virtually no facilities were deleted from the ports despite
the major burden of the additional costs on the Government budget.
5.09     Supervision of the works was carried out by local consultants with
some foreign technical assistance provided by the consultants which had
designed the ports. This arrangement was generally effective. During
construction a number of studies took place: hydrological and sediment studies
at Zaret, Boughrara, Louata, Hergla and Ben Khiar, and soil studies at
Boughrara, Mahares, Hergla and Salakta. These studies, among others,
established the need for maintenance dredging and the existence of rocky areas
which needed to be removed. These studies are quite usual as part of
construction oi small harbors, and do not appear an indication of incomplete
or insufficient surveys during the design phase.
C.  Credit Component
5.10     The credit component of the project achieved its physical targets -
about 470 vessels were financed and constructed - and it appears likely that
most boats operate in a financially efficient manner. But the loans which
financed these vessels are not being repaid (recovery in 1988 on loans made
under the Second Project stood at 3% of payment due, compared to 25% of dues



- 11 -
for loans made under the first Project) and hence the ultimate success of the
vessel construction program is being over-shadowed by the virtual failure of
the credit program to recover the loans, particularly because credit, approval
and distribution in Tunisia during project implementation were inadequate
(para 8.02).
5.11     The key to creation of a healthy fishery credit program is the
understanding of the nature of fishery operations - unlike in agriculture most
fishermen land fish and receive money every working day but daily, or even
monthly income fluctuates enormously, and repayment is only possible when
daily income exceeds daily operating and consumption requirements.  Hence
fishery credit requires close, frequent and continuous contacts between staff
of the credit agency and the owner of the fishing craft to ensure repayments
every time a good catch is made. In some fisheries such catches are only made
during 10 to 20 days a year, often spread out over extended periods.
Experience in many parts of the world teaches that the role of the credit
agency cannot be replaced in part by another agency - it is sometimes
suggested that repayment be handled through marketing agents - unless such
agency assumes full responsibility for the loan and its repayment. The PPAR
of the First Fisheries Project, -' and experieace with a growing number of
small-scale fishery credit projects in various parts of the world indicate
that key elements of a healthy credit scheme include: (i) frequent contacts
with the fishermen, or provision of credit through marketing institutions,
combined with (ii) enforceable arrangements for repossession of craft, and
(iii) careful selection of genuine fishermen as borrowers. Two other key, but
sometimes overlooked aspects are that: (iv) fishing vessels financed by such
credit should be able to operate profitably, and (v) have a design fully
accepted by the fishermen, if fishermen are not free in their choice of
equipment.
5.12     The experience during the First Fisheries Project showed IDA's first
attempt at organizing a fishery credit program in Tunisia was deficient in
several aspects:
(i)  Fishermen were not selected by the credit agency, the Fishery credit
operations were administered from the credit agency Headquarters,
there was no specialized staff in BNT's 30 branches to handle
repayment; repayment was also to be made only to Headquarters.
.           (ii)  Vessels financed under IDA's credit program were not necessarily of a
design acceptable to the fishermen. Centralized design, bulk
purchasing of engines and equipment and building boats on contract
tend to ignore the demands of the fishermen. In this particular case
no major design changes were effectively introduced during the First
Project; the problem was that engine selection proved mostly
unacceptable to borrowers. In general standardized design is only
possible in a very homogeneous fishery, and only after extensive
testing of prototype vessels by fishermen. In th4s case, no such
testing had taken place, while the fishery is not homogeneous.
1/ Tunisia, First Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN), Report 3753. Project
Performance Audit Report.



- 12 -
(iii)  As a result, attitudes of fishermen with respect to repayment of
fishery loans deteriorated. Lack of interest of bona-fide fishermen
in purchasing the vessels promoted by the IDA scheme and lack of
responsibility for BNT for loan approval, also led BNT to lower the
standards of loan appraisal and grant loans to people with little
previous fishery experience. This further affected loan repayment.
(iv) Finally, no effective arrangements appeared to exist to repossess and
dispose of fishing craft.
5.13     When the Second Fishery Project was appraised in 1978, these findings
were not yet disseminated, although the problems of the project were known.
The SAR stated that the very low recovery of fishery loans (both FOSEP and IDA
loans) under the First Fishery Project was caused by the following factors:
(i) Fishermen not having to make any down payment, as they could receive their
10X down payment from the Rural Development Program as a loan; (ii) perceived
or real frequent breakdowns of vessels financed by IDA; (iii) a total lack of
cooperation between BNT and the fishery agency for recovery ot loans; and (iv)
a total lack of "credit supervision". As a result recovery on loans
refinanced by IDA was 6% in September 1978. The appraisal report then listed
that concrete Fteps had been taken to rectify the situation: (i) improvement
of cooperation between BNT and the Fishery Authority; (ii) recruitment of
seven specialized BNT recovery agents; (iii) agreement that the Fishery
Authority would link reissuing of fishing licenses to credit repayment
performance; and (iv) opening of legal proceeding against seven loan
defaulters. BNT further agreed to increase recovery on IDA refinanced loans
to 75% by 1982, i.e. in three years time.
5.13     During implementation of the Second Project, the performance of the
credit program remained highly disappointing. Average recovery on loans made
during the First Project improved somewhat from the 6% reported at appraisal,
but never increased above 25% (daLa until December 31, 1986). In fact,
recovery has remained remarkably constant at between 20% and 252 for the past
six years, with the exception of a few limited areas where recoveries reached
over 702. The credit program of the Second Fisheries Project inherited the
weak performance of the First Project and has so far not been able to turn the
program around. As of July 1988, initial recovery on loans made under the
Second Project reportedly stood at 3% of amounts due; this low figure was
largely the result of postponed repayments due to late delivery of vessels.
This highly unfortunate situation might have come about by a number of
factors, which all seem to have contrbuted to the thoroughly unsatisfactory
credit climate presently prevailing in the fisheries sector:
(a)  During appraisal and supervision of the Second Project and
particularly following preperation of the PPAR of the First Project,
no effective steps have been taken to clean up the portfolio of the
First Project.
(i) Arrangements to deal with abandoned vessels proved only partly
effective, and some were never concluded;



- 13 -
(ii)   No decisive steps were taken to solve the technical issues
affecting the already constructed vessels of the first project,
while simple and cheap arrangements could have been taken to
solve some of the prevailing problems with the engines.
(iii)  Attempts to force willful defaulters to repay by withholding
fishing license had only a limited impact; the Fishery Authority
apparently never completely stopped to issue licenses to selected
willful defaulters. Although repossession of vessels was
possible, BNT had great difficulty selling the vessels at a
reasonable price. Here again IDA could have insisted on more
effective arrangements being put in place to force genuine7
willful defaulters to repay, i.e. to stop disbursement on this
component.
'iv)   Attempts at a case by case review of the portfolio of the First
Project, and adjustment of repayment and recovery practices to
suit the particular circumstances of each borrower were not
made. BNT and IDA could have made arrangements to let borrowers
repay on a more frequent basis to all branches located in the
coastal zone.
(b) Ler.ding arrangements under the credit program for the Second Project
were not substantially adjusted to improve the credit climate.
(i)    When it became clear that the vessels designed for the Second
Project required testing, demonstration and further adjustment,
BNT and the Bank should have temporarily halted all credit
operations for these new vessels until fishermen had expressed
their confidence in the design and construction arrangements.
The Bank instead urged BNT to make all possible efforts to speed
up the already delayed credit program once the first boat had
made a successful maiden vcyage. However, continuing adjustments
were being made to the design as a result of fishermen complaints
almost until the end of the project. Such complaints were, at
least initially, considered a threat to the quick implementation
of the project. In actual fact, they aopeared to have been a
genuine sign that arrangements to organize the highly centralized
vessel design, procurement and construction program at least made
the impression that inadequate attention was paid to genuine
fishermen needs. These fishermen were used to ordering their new
vessels individually, to their own specifications. They also
might have become very cautious as a result of the experierces
with the engines in the First Project. The Bank should have
halted the credit program until most bugs had been removed from
the design, to demonstrate its intention to finance sound,
reliable boats6'.
1/   The borrower noted that tlhe performeace of the credit programme could
have been improved if the following adjustments had been made:
(i) a better selection of fishermen;
(ii) no limitation of credit for standard vessels only;
(iii) no limitation of credit for vessels of selected boat builders only; and
(iv) more flexible building contracts.



- 14 -
(ii)   BNT and the Bank continued to accept the limited involvement of
local branch staff in fishery loan collection. Prior to
appraisal the Bank proposed that BNT appoint 20 special loan
officers in the field. During negotiations it was agreed that 7
would be posted. Later most were replaced frequently and few
proved effective. Only in a few ports did collection improve as
a result of special efforts by BNT staff in cooperation with the
Fishery Authority. In many other ports BNT remained without
staff to actively handle fishery loans. To be effective BNT
should have limited fishery lending to those areas where it had
suitable staff to handle fishery loans.
5.14     Just prior to the first Closing Date of the project, and despite the
poor performance of the fishery credit program, the Fishery Authority and BNT
approved a large number of new credit applications for vessels. It is unclear
whether this wave of applications was the result of a recognition on the part
of the fishermen that the vessels financed under the scheme were basically
sound, or whether it was caused by measures by the Fishery Authority and BNT
to maximize lending under the project. There is little doubt there was a
genuine interest on the part of the fishermen in the 13.80 m vessel, of which
a total of 85 were financed, compared to 30 estimated at appraisal. This
vessel also received relatively few complaints. However, the smalle. vessel,
-f which ultimately 391 were financed, received most of the orders in 1984 and
particularly 1985. Questions about the vessel were recorded as late as 1984.
The late orders might also have been caused by the fact that new arrangements
for down payment had been agreed upon. Under the First Project borrowers
received the 10% down payment for the loan in the form of a loan from the
Rural Development Program. In practice this loan was usually not repaid.
When this arrangement was removed in 1979 for the Second Project, fishermen
objected to the l0X down payment they had to make, and many refused.
Ultimately it was agreed fishermen would make a 52 down payment.
5.15     Actual construction of boats substantially lagged behind orders.
Although the first orders for 11.25 boats were made in 1983, delivery did not
start until 1984.  Of all vessels ordered prior to the first Closing Date of
December 31, 1985, only 90 were actually delivered by that date; 165 vessels
were delivered in 1986, 170 in 1987 and 51 in 1988. The rush to accept orders
prior to the Closing Date no doubt has been the main cause of the delays, as
the capacity of the contracted boatyards was limited. As a result of the
delays fishermen were forced to pay down payments several years before
delivery of the vessel. This no doubt has further reduced the borrowers
willingness to repay the loans in a timely fashion.
D.  Extension Component
5.16     The project intended to focus on on-the-job training for fishermen,
and would finance 10 mobile training units. In addition, the project would
install engines in the most important fishery training schools for
demonstration purposes, to help address the problems of the vessels financed
under the First Project. This component never achieved what it was set out to
do. In general fishermen need very little advice on how to catch more fish,
how to repair nets, and how to maintain vessels. They know better than



- 15 -
anybody else where they might expect fish, and how it should be caught.  They
only need assistance, or better: a demonstration, when genuinely new nets,
equipment or engines become available which would help them to reduce their
manual labor on board, to speed up fishing related activities, to repair
equipment or to better catch fish.  In those cases they need a demonstration
how the equipment works and needs to be installed and operated, and training
in maintenance.  For this project it is not very clear what the mobile
extension units were designed to do. The appraisal report refers to three
instructors (for nets, engines and electrical, and wood working) per unit.  If
one of the objectives of the mobile units was to improve engine maintenance, a
better solution would have been to provide local engine repair shops with
special training and spare parts, and organize local training sessions for
fishermen at the repair shops. Following appraisal the Government soon had
second thoughts about the initial proposal of 10 units and suggested to limit
the component to three units, and provide additional training through the
engine supplier of the Second Project (a local company) and to existing boat
yards to train carpenters. It is unclear whether this training has actually
been carried out, since supervision reports do not report on this matter. The
Bank strongly supported to the Governments proposal. But since then very
little progress has been made. Varicus reasons for the delays were cited by
various Bank supervision missions (delays in pr- rement of vans, lack of
suitable extension agents, lack of coordination within the Fishery Authority,
and lack of funds). The Government also requested funds for specific training
of staff in charge of the refrigeration plants constructed under the harbor
component of the project. The Government reports that the vans have been
operational since 1983, although it is unclear how effective they are. It is
also unclear whether any training was being provided with respect to the
refrigeration plants. This component clearly 'ras inadequately designed,
possibly a reflection of the complete lack of fishery extension specialists in
identification, appraisal and supervision missions.
E. Studies and Research
5.17     Feasibility studies for the expansion of the ports of Kelibia and
Tabarka were to be prepared under the project because of their importance as
cargo and fisheries ports for the Northwest region. The feasibility studies
for both ports were carried out by a local consulting company, and were
successfully completed by early 1982. Construction was eventually financed
with bilateral funds.
5.18     The project also financed a study to improve lagoon fishing along the
Tunisian coast. The study was executed by private consultants and completed
by late 1983.  As a result of the study several private investment proposals
were made to exploit the fish resources in the lagoon.
5.19     Under the project the Tunisian Fishery Research Institute (INSTOP)
with assistance from FAO carried out a study to assess the size and
sustainable yield of the country's fish resources. The study created a
computer program to assess stocks on an annual basis, using catch and fish
landing data. The study was completed by the end of 1983, and appears to have
been effective in improving fish stock assessment work by INSTOP.
5.20     A study to assess what costs of the construction and operation and
maintenance of the fishery ports should be recovered by the fishermen was
carried out by a local consultancy company under the project. The study was



- 16-
completed in 1982. It concluded that prevailing charges were very low
(between 42 and 10. of O&M costs were actually being recovered in 1981), and
that of these very low charges only 70% was ictually being collected.  The
consultant recommended that the ports should be self sufficient for O&M,
overhead and depreciation. Rehabilitation and development should be paid by
the Government. The report proposed to increase port charges to cover O&M and
depreciation charges. When the Bank reviewed the report, it concluded that in
some cases the proposed increases were of such a magnitude that they might
discourage intensive and efficient use of the ports. A final list of price
increases for port services, which took account of the Bank's comments, was
reportedly issued by the Government in late 1985. However, a Bank review of
port maintenance practices in 1986 concluded that very little maintenance had
taken place, and that strong resistance had been encountered in levying port
dues in the purts. No more recent information is available about cost
recovery. In view of the experience with port charges on small fishing ports
in other parts of the world, which clearly show the need to rely heavily on
indirect charges, and because the appraisal mission quite specifically
recommended against substantial direct charges, it is unfortunate the study
did not focus more on the potential of using indirect methods to recover costs.
F. Institution-Building
5.21     Under the project a new Fishery Authority has been formed, to take
over all administrative and regulatory functions from various other agencies
in the fishery sector. Appropriate promulgation of the necessary legislation
was formally introduced in August 1979. The new Authority received staff from
various agencies. All fishery training schools and training centers, and the
fishery research institute (INSTOP) were brought under the umbrella of the new
Authority. The cooperation and effectiveness of the Tunisian authorities to
create the new Authority were quite remarkable. The Bank's proposal for
reorganization, which was made at appraisal was very quickly accepted and
effectively implemented. The degree to establish the Authority under the
Ministry of Equipment (which is also in charge of ports) was signed in August
1979 while its Director General was appointed by the same date. More recently
the independent Fishery Authority falls under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Administrative and Financial Organization and
operating rules for the Authority were completed in March 1980. Creation of
the Fishery Authority has had a positive influence on project impleiientation.
The fact that the Authority resorted under the Ministry of Equipment during
most of project implementation allowed all project matters to be dealt with by
basically one ministry. There appears little doubt the Fishery Authority has
been more efficient in dealing with fishery sector development than the
previous arrangement, where various agencies were involved.
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
6.01     During appraisal it was assumed that the project would cause fish
production to increase as a result of: (a) newly introduced project vessels;
(b) existing vessels to catch more; and (c) no reduction in the existing
number of vessels, while without the project the present fleet would reduce in
size. The appraisal report estimated that the new vessels would catch 8,300
tons %f fish, and the existing fleet would have an incremental production of
300 tons. Catch rates of the new boats were assumed to increase rapidly over
those of the existing fleet as a result of training efforts. It was also



- 17 -
assumed that recording of catches would become more reliable at new fishing
harbors; without ports an estimated 50% of the catch was not recorded. In
actual fact, recorded catches of project vessels did not go up as envisaged.
The total catch of project vessels was an estimated 4,100 tons in 1987,
roughly 50% of the appraisal estimate.
Average Annual Catch Per Vessel/Ton
Appraisal Report            Actual 1986
(year 2)
11.25 boat      14.0 (8.7) /1            8
13.80 boat      22                      12
/1 14.0 ton concerns northern ports where no shrimp
and octopus are caught.
It is not certain whether the reported figure for 1986 includes a provision
for unrecorded catches, but it appears clear appraisal catch rates were
over-estimated. Catches of the existing fleet appear to have increased
dramatically at the new ports (para 5.07). It is unclear whether the full
difference between the appraisal projections for fish landings at certain
project ports and actual landings (almost 5,800 ton for 1985) were the result
of the availability of port facilities and better recording of catches only.
However, it appears reasonable to assume that a portion of the recorded
difference can be attributed to an increase in the catch of the existinz
fleet. Conservatively it has been assumed in the recalculated ERR (para 6.03)
that the project induced increase in production of the existing fleet was
1,500 ton annually (25% of the difference between the appraisal estimate and
actual landings of fish in 1985 for the entire project area). The reasons for
the rapid increase of catche; of the existing fleet could be several: (i) the
availability of protected fish landing facilities, notably at Louata and
Mahares resulting in more fishing days; (ii) the availability of ice at
selected ports; and possibly improved services for engine and boat repair.
But increasing demand for fish, and particularly rapid increases in fish
prices will no doubt also have played a major role (para 6.02).
6.02     During appraisal it was assumed fish prices, in real terms would
annually increase by about 6% per year from 1979 to 1985, by about 4.8% from
1986-1992, and 3.6% thereafter. In actual fact fish prices in real terms
increased much more. Between 1979 and 1986 fish prices, in real terms,
increased by a factor of 60% more than the 45% price increase estimated at
appraisal- shrimp prices increased 25% more. These figures take account of
the preval_ing inflation rate as measured by the average wholesale price index.
6.03     The price increases, and the positive influence of the project on
fish production by the existing fleet had a substantial impact on the
recalculated rate of return of the project, more than off setting the
influence of cost increases of the harbors and boats, delays in construction
of harbors and boats, and the lower than expected fish production of
individual boats. The .ecalculated ERR, based on all quantifiable benefits
and costs, and using data from the Fishery Authority concerning final project
costs, current catches of project vessels, and present fish prices is 30%,
compared to 27% estimated at appraisal. Details of the new analysis are
provided in Annex 1.



- 18 -
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01     Appraisal.  The role of the Bank in appraising the project was
mixed. Design of the port component was generally satisfactory. But in
several other areas the performance of the appraisal could have been
improved. Costs of the project appear to have been considerably
under-estimated; the impact of this under-estimate in USDollar terms was
balanced by the appreciation of the USDollar against the Dinar, but local
costs substantially exceeded appraisal estimates, and forced the Government to
increase its budgetary allocations for the project. In designing the project,
the Bank should not have made newly designed, untested vessels the centerpiece
of the credit program; instead adequate time should have been allowed for
testing and demonstration of the new vessels, and the credit program should
initially have started for the traditional vessels only. This might have
reduced the rate of return of the project, but would have avoided the risk of
either substantial delays in the credit program, or introduction of unsound
vessels. The appraisal should also have paid more attention to the
substantial supervision needs which any program for newly designed vessels
requires during testing. Ideally some cofinancing should have bee-n arranged
to cover a vessel design and testing component, with funds for construction of
a number of vessels, design changes and technical supervision being provided
on a grant basis. Now virtually all technical supervision of the vessel
component was paid out of the Bank's project supervision resources. Finally
the Bank should have used a fishery extension specialist to design the
extension component.
7.02     Supervision.  During the early stages of t.ie project, the Bank paid
adequate attention to the project; however, after 1983 supervision frequency
dropped markedly, and, with the exception of a procurement related mission in
1986 did not include any civil engineering expertise. The entire boat
construction program took place virtually without Bank supervision. None of
the problems which existed in the harbor component at the end of 1983 was
given further Bank attention. Technical Bank supervision during 1984 or 1985
might have helped to reduce some of the construction delays experienced in the
harbor component. In the credit component, due to the delays in the vessel
design and construction program, ample time was available to address its major
problems as outlined in 1980 in the PPAR of the First Project. Although
efforts were made to improve the performance of the fishery credit scheme,
these efforts were generally fruitless and when stronger measures were
proposed in 1985, too late. The Bank should have taken a firmer stand by
insisting in 1980 that the problems of the Fishery portfolio be addressed
within a strict time frame. In general continuity of staff for supervision
missions was maintained. Supervision missions were effective in as.,isting the
boat design and testing program, and helpful in adjusting procurement
arrangements for the vessel hulls.
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED
8.01     Various lessons can be learned from the implementation experience of
the project:
(i) If a project intends to use an existing credit system to finance
vessels, it appears desirable to make all possible efforts to improve
loan approval, distribution and recovery systems to acceptable levels
prior to starting the new credit program;



- 19 -
(ii)  If new types of fishing vessels are to be introduced, adequate time,
financing and technical assistance should be made available for a
thorough testing program;
(iii) No standard design should be accepted for a fishing vessel if it is
intended for a non-homogeneous fishery; in general the choice of
vessels and engines in a fishery project should be left completely
with the fishermen;
(iv) Fishing vessels of an untested design should under no circumstance be
financed by a fishery credit program;
(v)  In a fishery credit program it is preferable to let fishermen select
the engine of their choice.  If, due to shortages of foreign exchange,
it is unavoidable to procure engines in bulk, evaluation of bids
should give adequate weight to fishermen preferences;
(vi) The creation of a new central agency in charge of the fishery sector
was a success because it was arranged prior to Board presentation, and
because the local authorities were convinced of the need for
institutional change.
Follow-up on Lessons Learnt
8.02     The medium-term agricultural adjustment program (1987-91), which the
Government of Tunisia agreed to implement in connection with the first
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, contains an action plan of measures
designed to achieve major reforms in the credit systems. In July 1987 the
Bank approved the BNT4 Project in support of this adjustment program, with a
view to promoting the development of a sound rural credit system. Under the
BNT4 project, lending to fishermen is now highly selective, strictly limited
(no new fleet financing), and targeted to private fishermen who have a
demonstrated record of fishing performance and a credit recovery rate of at
least 90%.



TUnISIA: SECMOD FISH[RIES PRWJECT ICR. 1746-TUP)
Recalculated Ecknamic Rate of Rtturn
]1Sl        I5L1     LUZ|I2J2 12zl           1924 IjSE    l9S  I98  198   122      l!              1221  3l 9n-2001    2002-2010
Protect  _feil1ts
A. Fish catch (MTMN) I/
Sy 11.25 boats                                                      592   1,672   2.784   3.120   3,150   2.200   3,300   3,400         3.400        3.400
13.60 boats                                                      196     562     942   1.5l   1.075   1,100   1,150   1,200         1.200        1.200
Existing fleet                                     133   1.50    LAS0    1.500  L1.0    1.333   .Ian    LI.   l.133   1.130            LiEn         L.DS
lIda!                                       500   1,500   2,268   2,735   5.227   5,673   5.725   5,800   5,950   6,100          6.100        5.100
S. Average fish price 0/kg hl    1                                 113    . 2A.112  241    5L4    211 65    _L.           2.3 901            -LE 140
C. Total Uenefitt 10,000)                               _211    *      150   S1 0    13 276  ItLE     1tS5A    15.820  ISAIRI  11.1L2     2143,0
Pro,1eet Costs
0. Investment Costs
Studies                                    663
Harbors I/               2,000   5,000   6,000   6,000   2,500   2,500   2,921       730
Boats  /                     -       -     1 .    .       -30 - 400   L0    i.L    IAM       9L
E.   Total                    2,000   5,000   6,753   6,300   2,900   5,500   7,395   4,7230      950
F.   Inflation Adjusted I/   1.153   3,170   4.687   4.946   2.481   5.102   7.921   5,004   1,097
Investment Costs
6. Operating Costs
Narbors V/                                                       164      385     464    7230     432      432     432     432         600          600
moats a'                                                        Eus LUZ LIUi LI   LIE  LIE  LI   LEE    JAM                                       LAI
H.      Total                                                             769   2,045   3,246   3.824   3.526   3,526   2,526   3,526        3,894         4.094
I. Total Costs (F+H)         1L1IU    3     170        LIDS   2431  5LII    LAI          MM0 L25_  L4.0    L3 L526  L* LS2                      iIE
J. net Eenefits (C-I)        (1,153) 13.170) 14.667) (3.996)    669    (562)   (364)  5,017  10,130  12,329  13,294  14,502  22,802         17,456        20,306
ERRt        30S
1/   Eased on catch of 8 ton per year for 11.25 a boat and 12 ton for 13.80 m boat.  Inermntal production existing fleet Is 1.500 ton/year.
2/  Prices based on 1966 actual prices of Witte fish a 0 2.00/kg and shrimp/lobster a 0 8.50/kg.  It Is assumed 5 of catch is shrip/lobster.  Real prices
are Increased by 4.51 ammually until 1992  and 3.6  theafter, as In appraisal report.
1/   Total investment costs allocated qccordtng to disbursent data.
j/  Total investment costs allocated according to boat building schedule.
J/  Total investment costs adjusted to 1966 prices.
i/   Appraisal estimtes tims inflation factor, data for 1993-2010 inelde replacement of equwipent.
Z/   Appraisal estimates ttmes inflatton factor, data for 1993-2010 include replacemnt costs for engines.
Ogsec



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
TUNISIA: SECOND FISHERIES PRCJECT (LOAN 1746-TUN)
Disbursement Status
September 30. 1988
Category                Description                   Balance        Undisbursed
Loan/Credit Total US$                            0.00   23,815,944.94
Cancel                                              4,684,055.06             0.00
Note       2nd Fisheries 051480                              0.00            0.00
Note-A     Disb. up to 123186 El-Rifai Tlx 043086            0.00            0.00
Note-Clo   OK to disb. until 063087                          0.00            0.00
1          Civil Works        35S T                         0.00    0,659,918.34
2          Supervision of Construction      lOOF/8OL        0.00       669,973.81
3-A        Equip/Vehicles (No Boats) PT.A  10OF/55L         0.00    2,057,883.72
3-B        Equip/Vehicles (No Boats) PT.C  lOOF/55L         0.00       803.296.09
4          Boats (See Shedule 1)                             0.00    8,997,740.61
5-A        Cons. Svcs. & Fellowships PT.D.1  lOOF           0.00       130,033.34
5-B        Cons. Svcs. & Fellowships (C.2,D.2,3) lOOF       0.00       148,437.82
6          Refunding of Advance                             0.00       348,661.21
AF         Last Disbursement:  July 29, 1987
0959c



Attachment I
-23-                     Page 1
89E0643    April 19, 1989
French     (Tunisia)
OEDDI      JCB:mec
Translation of incoming telex
From: Banque Nationale de Tunisie
To:    IBRD, Washington
Telex #13539SM
April 18, 1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
OED
Following your letter of March 1, 1989, we give below our comments
on the PCR on the Tunisia Second Fisheries Project (1746 TUN).
(1) Most of the problems noted relate to the First Fisheries Project
(IDA 270 TUN), while the real difficulties with the Second Project have not
been analyzed sufficiently. The report minimizes the repercussions of the
inadequacies in terms of project design and appraisal and basically stresses
recovery problems. The Bank's role as regards repetition of the errors of the
First Project, which are likely to produce the same results, in particular
where recovery is concerned [sic).
(2) The problem of recovery mentioned in the report basically concerns
the First Project, which took place under very particular conditions.
With respect to the Second Project's low [recovery] rate, this is
due to the lack of coordination between the date fixed for the first
installment and the entry into production of the vessels. This time lag,
sometimes over two years, is not taken into consideration at the loan
management level.
In view of the specific aspects of the fisheries sector, certain
appropriate, though hard-to-apply, measures could improve the recovery rate.
(3) Choice of fishermen. Only dossiers containing full documentation of
the applicants' qualifications and no-risk status have been selected by BNT
and CGP.
(4) Choice of vessel. The imposition of vessel designs resulted, as
with the First Project, in bitter failure. In the case of the Second Project,
the outcome was that the Tunisians asked for modifications, which led to
longer vessel construction periods and delivery delays, with the consequent
increases in vessel costs.



- 24 -                      Attachment I
Page 2
In addition, the vessel builders were imposed on the fishermen in
accordance with the procedures adopted by CGP.
The contracting conditions set out in the loan agreements led to the
same disadvantages as under the First Project.
The successive cost increases have led to real difficulties in terms
of payment of the supplementary self-financing amounts.
(5)  The project cost given in the report is underestimated.  Some of the
equipment was financed by us out of our own resources.
Regards,
Atallahmokhtar and Alichaghal



- 25 -                     Attachment II
Attention: Mr. Graham Donaldson, World Bank.
We acknowledge receipt of the PCR (Loan 1746-TUN), and wish to make
the following corrections:
1.   Production:  1985:  88,895 tons (pages v and 1)
1987: 99,184 tons (page 1)
2.   Additional landings are 33 [percent] higher than the appraisal
estimates (pages viii and 11).
3.   Table 5.1:
Under "actual figures," the total for 1987 (?19851 should be 9,606
instead of 9,906 tons.
For Salakta port, the actual figure in 1987 should be 568 instead of
968 tons, making the total 9,815 tons instead of 10,115 tons.
Regards,
Hassen Akrout
Commissaire General a la Peche
CGP Tunis



IBRD 14170
8'                                              foi ;2'                                                               MARCH 1979
>32  B                    ,1~'enditerranean       Secr
-38-                                                                                                                                      380
1~~~~0
LA GALITE L.
ize!te
y  ~ ~ ~ ~ I~~idi Doud
~-            ( _    'Toboorka                  TUNIS
TUNISIA
-'i  SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Annual Wave Distribution
Off Tunisian Coast                          harrne'
S                                       k |~~~~~~~~~~~Hergl|
*36                !                      l)S36
* colm0-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 >4                                  Souss.
Meters
0%       10%      20%       30%
ALGERIA                               Scale of Wave Roses                               _____
|                 Frequency of occurence
Hergia Sites selected fcor development
_ - ._. Internotional boundaries
KERKENNAH 15.
_ J                         j                               OLo Skirra
j                              I'                             |       'G./f of  Gobes
-34-  0            50           100         IS0          200                                                                               34J
~Gbe*
Kilometers
1 Thl,o nap 504.,prdr.db 0Wo,dB.,k    -            i,,, ,*F.               Ad1i
of =-o ,..d., -' hr. ,.go,O * __-red 04 .e.oh.d 754 e.,oooo.hrioo SUd nd       ER DJERBA 1.
bd         , h.-   do o -ply. V. Of  5 Wd  'd
V   hSfordi  aIyognl  .,V. lo. scaURK.                                   .a, a, rnoqo.'aa,o.a.rO  a 
II
c1sicily   *  *                 - 
(TUNIIA   'MALTA
I                      'i '2                   fG"P >J 'f'7°  S
ALGERIA                                          ) AA
LIBYA                   REUBIO



