Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2592-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
June 18, 1979
This doeument hus a resticed distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dielosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                          Tunisian Dinar (DT)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is floating. The rate
used in the staff appraisal report, which approximates the current rate is:
US$1.00           -         D 0.400
D 1.00            =         US$2.50
D 1,000           =         US$2,500
D 1 million                 US$2,500,000
Fiscal Year                                            January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BNT            Banque Nationale de Tunisie - National Bank of Tunisia
DSP            Direction des Services des Pgches - Directorate of Fisheries
FA             Fisheries Authority
FAO-CP         Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
FOSDA          Fonds Special de Developpement Agricole _ Special Fund for
Agricultural Development
FOSEP          Fonds Special d'Encouragement a la Pgche - Special Fund  for
Fisheries Development
HARBOR DEPARTMENT
Department of Harbors and Aerial Bases in the Ministry of
Equipment
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
INSTOP         Institut Scientifique et Technique d'Oceanographie et de
Peche - Institute of Science and Technology for Oceanography
and Fisheries
MSY            Maximum Sustainable Yield
ONP            Office National des Pgches - National Office of Fisheries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I
Borrower:            Republic of Tunisia.
Amount:              US$28.5 million.
Terms:               The loan would be repayable in 17 years, including a
4-year grace period; interest would be at 7.9 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:         The Project aims to (i) increase the whitefish, shrimp, and
octopus production by 8,600 t, 160 t and 60 t respectively,
per annum; (ii) offer improved income opportunities to
about 2,000 existing fishermen and create about 1,750 jobs
for new fishermen and 250 jobs in other project related
services; (iii) increase the efficiency of the fisheries
subsector through reorganization of its administration;
and (iv) improve the skills of fishermen through on-the-
job training. The project would finance investments in
(i) new port infrastructure and shore facilities to serve
as a base for coastal fishing activities along the Tunisian
coast; (ii) boat repair facilities and ice making and cold
storage equipment; (iii) boat construction for 400 boats of
11.25 m overall length and 30 boats of 13.80 m overall
length; and (iv) training equipment and vehicles. Tech-
nical assistance for construction, supervision, training
and preparation of studies for the expansion of ports in
Tabarka and Kelibia and research on the potential of
lagoon fishing and exploitable fish stocks would also be
financed. The main risk involved in the project would
result from a delay in the implementation and operation
of the new organizational set-up proposed under the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 
Estimated Cost:                                         Local    Foreign    Total
US$ Million --
Ports                                              19.2       11.1       30.3
Equipment for Existing Ports                         1.7       2.0        3.7
Supervision of Construction and Installation        1.3        0.6        1.9
Boats and Spare Parts                               5.6        8.5       14.1
Training and Incremental Personnel                  3.4        0.6        4.0
Studies and Research                                0.5        0.9        1.4
Total Base Cost                               31.7       23.7       55.4
Physical Contingencies                               2.2       1.3        3.5
Price Contingencies                                 5.2        3.5        8.7
TOTAL                                         39.1       28.5       67.6
Financing Plan:
Sub-        Govern-        1/  IBRD
Category                              Borrowers    ment       BNT-   Loan    Total
New Ports
Civil Works                           -           21.1       -      11.1     32.2
Equipment                             -            2.5       -       2.2      4.7
Existing Ports                           -            1.8      -       1.8       3.6
Supervision of Construction and
Installation                          -            1.4       -       0.8      2.2
Boats                                   1.6          4.9       -       9.8     16.3
Training
Technical Assistance                  -            0.1       -       0.3      0.4
Local Personnel                       -             1.2      -        -       1.2
Fellowships                           -              -       -       0.1      0.1
Equipment                             -            0.2       -       0.3       0.5
Vehicles
Refrigerated Trucks                   -            1.0       -       1.2      2.2
Ports                                 -             0.2      -       0.1       0.3
Incremental Personnel Cost              -            2.0      0.5       -       2.5
Studies and Research                    -            0.6       -       0.8       1.4
TOTAL                             1.6          37.0      0.5    28.5      67.6
1/   Banque Nationale de Tunisie



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements: (US$ Million):
BANK FY                  80      81      82     83      84     85
Annual                  4.4    9.0    5.9    4.7    3.5    1.0
Cummulative             4.4   13.4   19.3   24.0   27.5   28.5
Economic
Rate of Return:  27 percent.  The economic rates of return for the individual
ports range from 17 to 35 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2436-TUN, dated June 6, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$28.5 million to help finance
a Second Fisheries Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. A portion of the
proceeds of the loan (US$9.8 million) would be relent to the Banque Nationale
de Tunisie for a term of twelve years including 5 years of grace, at a rate of
interest of 2.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An updating economic mission visited Tunisia in June 1978; its
report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN)
was issued on November 16, 1978. Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.         Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with agricultural resources.  Much
of the country is arid or semi arid. Agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast, in the North West, and in a few oases, but continues to play
an important role in Tunisia's economic structure. During 1970-77 agriculture
generated some 17 percent of GDP and accounted for some 40 percent of total
employment.. The main crops are wheat and olives. These crops are subject to
sharp annual output fluctuations because of irregular rainfall in the case of
wheat and a natural production cycle for olives. Tunisia's most important
raw materi.als are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas; except for phosphates,
known reserves are relatively small. Industrial development, although rapid,
has been hampered by shortaiges of industrial entrepreneurs, the limited size
of the domestic market and difficulties in marketing Tunisian products abroad.
The most iimportant sector is services, which, during 1970-77, generated about
half of GDP, a quarter of that sector's contribution consisting of government
services. Tourism has developed rapidly during the 1970's. Workers' remit-
tances have become a significant item in the balance of payments, generating
about 10 percent of current account receipts during 1970-77.
4.         Tunisia's economy has performed remarkably well during the period
1970-77. Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 8.6 percent, nearly twice
as fast as during the 1960's.  Per capita GNP in 1977 reached $860, which in
real terms is some 72 percent above its level of 1969. According to the 1978
World Bank Atlas, Tunisia was one of the few countries in the world whose per
capita GNP during 1970-76 increased by 6 percent and more.
5.        This performance was partly attributable to improved economic man-
agement and partly to fortuitous factors. During the 1960's, Tunisia's
policy orientation centered on an inward-looking investment strategy based on
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Second Urban
Sewerage Project (No. P-2485-TUN), approved March 22, 1979.



state .!redomTnance ;i? al-L    portan  ecoonomic act liiv  iesn  Econoinic management
re Iton or, a complex cystern of governnerit regulatkoris.  In 1969, new policy
orientations were announced, whichi, during the 1970's, resulted in change
towards a more open and export-oriented economy in which private initiative
Could play anl increasing role.  A number of decontrol measures were introduced,
albeit slowly.  Overall, tne new policy orientation proved highly beneficial
for the country.  In addition, the economy benefited from favorable weather
conditions resulting in good agricultural crops while the change in world mar-
ket prices during 1973/74 brought sizeable windfalls as the terrms of trade
improved sharply.  This all-owed domestic savings to increase to 22 percent of
GDP during 1970-77, compared with 15 percent during the 19190's. Tunisia's
dependence on external financing declined from about 32 percent of investment
in 1969 to 25 percent in 1977; the share s.as as low as 15 percent during
1973-76, when gains from the terms of trade were at their peak. The balance
of payments had been in continuous overall surplus since 1967, but after
1975 this was no longer the case as the terms of trade began to deteriorate
wlhile imports continued to increase rapidly. However, Tunisia's debt service
ratio in 1977 was still a low 8.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970.
6.         Rapid economic growth allowed Tunisia to make substantial social
gains during the 1970's. By 1976, primary school enrollment had reached 96
percent and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the relevant age groups.
Education is free virtually through university. Public health services have
been expanded, with many services provided free. A family planning program
has been introduced and since 1973 has met with substantial success. The
birth rate declined from 43.8 per thousand in 1966 to 36.4 per thousand in
1976 while the rate of natural growth declined from 3.0 to 2.6 percent in the
same period. Attempts have been made to correct regional imbalances and to
improve income distribution.  The share of the population living in absolute
poverty declined from 30 percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. However,
important disparities remain between income levels among individuals and
regions. In coping with the social aspects of development, Tunisia faces
strongly increased aspirations of its population in the face of limited
natural and financial resources.
7.         The most important problem facing the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. In 1977, about 13 percent of the labor force--
some 220,000 people--were unemployed and the unemployment rate is rising. In
addition, there is considerable hidden unemployment in agriculture, which
employed about 35 percent of the labor force in 1977. If one considers that
about 40 percent of this labor force does not have full time jobs, the effec-
tive unemployment rate is more like 25 percent.  An increasing number of young
people born during the high birth rate years are reaching working age and
a growing number of women are joining the labor force. About half of the
registered unemployed are young people seeking their first employment. These
are mostly relatively educated people whose job aspirations cannot be met.
8.         During 1970-77, agriculture provided about 40 percent of total
employment, 25 percent of merchandise exports and 17 percent of GDP. Food
processing --ccounted for another 4 percent of GDP and comprised 35 percent
of value added in manufacturing.  During this period agricultural production



rose substantially, largely as a result of favorable weather. Large infra-
structure investments were made during the last decade. Current policy, which
emphasizes projects that make a rapid and direct contribution to production,
recognizes various constraints on agricultural development: insecurity of
tenure; inadequate access to agricultural credit; inadequate extension ser-
vices; insufficient agricultural education; and underutilization of irrigation
investments.  Under the Fourth Plan (1973-76) about $140 million was allocated
to a rural development fund executed by the provincial administrations.
9.        During the 1960's, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by
8 percent annually. This growth rate accelerated in the 1970's to 11 percent
annually, due in part to re,cord years for the olive oil processing industry
and to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The
early thrust of industrialization was supplied by large import substitution
projects. These suffered, however, from the limited domestic market and from
shortages of experienced staff and management. Since 1970, more emphasis
has been put on export-oriented private industries, particularly in food
processing, textiles, fertilizers and mechanical and electrical industries.
Foreign and domestic private investment is now stimulated by a comprehensive
incentive framework and facilitated by streamlined approval procedures of the
investment promotion agency. Foreign investors are expected to contribute
know-how and overseas marketing capability. Although an agreement between
Tunisia and the European Community signed in April 1976 provided for duty
free entry into the Community of nearly all Tunisian industrial products, new
restricticns have recently been imposed. The Government has established a
special fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial decentral-
ization, and it has started a program to establish industrial estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1 million in 1977, with an average annual rate of
growth duting 1970-1977 of 12 percent -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, tourism has become a
major source of foreign exchange earnings, reaching $315 million in 1977;
this was slightly more than earnings from all manufacturing exports and was
exceeded only by petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in
Tunisia has unfortunately not been accompanied by adequate development of
infrastructure (particularly recreational facilities), trained manpower,
or related services. The Government is endeavoring to alleviate these con-
straints t:hrough a variety of measures including revised investment incentives,
increased marketing and training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards,
and more stringent zoning laws.
11.       The main objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1977-81) are:
(i) full employment of the additional labor force; (ii) self-sufficiency in
major foodstuffs (defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural goods);
(iii) increases in the standard of living; and (iv) social stability through
incomes policies and wage and price harmonization.  The Plan foresees an aver-
age annual rate of real GD]? growth of 7.3 percent.  This is somewhat below the
9.2 percent achieved during 1970-76, mainly because the fortuitous factors
prevalent during the early 1970's were not expected to continue.  Investment



- 4 -
is projected at D 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in current prices during the Plan.
In real terms, average annual investment would be 54 percent greater during
1977-81 than during the preceding Plan period. Nonetheless, the targeted
average annual rate of growth of real investment during the Fifth Plan is only
4.1 percent, as this rate is influenced by the very high investment level
achieved in 1976 in an effort to meet targets of the precedling Plan.
12.       The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular export-oriented
industrial development and agricultural growth. Special attention is given to
employment creation and to balance of payments considerations. Substantial
investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing, water development,
transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased domestic production and
processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates, petroleum) to export as
much value-added as possible. Extraction and distribution of newly discovered
offshore gas deposits in the Gulf of Gabes rank prominently in the list of
major projects. This gas will substitute for petroleum-based fuels, freeing
the latter for export. Eventually, gas will also be used as an input for the
chemical industry. Private sector initiative is expected to dominate invest-
ment in textiles, mechanical and electrical industries, and tourism. It is in
these activities that the authorities expect most employment creation to take
place. Employability of the labor force is to be increased through education
and training programs. Efforts towards regional development are to be pursued
through establishing regional planning structures, strengthening regional
administration and developing incentives for the decentralization of produc-
tive activities. The strategy proposed for the Fifth Plan does not represent
any major departure from the strategy pursued successfully during the preced-
ing Plan.
13.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its good performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to support further development with appro-
priate policy measures and institutions are fundamental factors pointing
towards continuing rapid economic growth during the Fifth Plan. The 7.3
percent growth target is in line with the possibilities of the economy. The
investment priorities formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to
support the sectoral strategies. There are, however, some less favorable
signs. Tunisia's development recently benefitted from the structural changes
in world market prices and from excellent weather conditions. As noted above,
it cannot be expected that these fortuitous factors will continue in Tunisia's
favor to the same extent as in the past. Hence, Tunisia will have to rely
increasingly on its own resources. As the resource base is relatively narrow,
available resources should be efficiently deployed. Achieving the Plan tar-
gets presupposes the timely introduction and successful execution of measures
to (i) strengthen the absorptive capacity for investment, especially for labor
intensive projects; (ii) promote exports; (iii) base economic management on
an efficient price and incentive system and improve productivity; and (iv)
mobilize the resources needed to realize the comprehensive social development
targets while maintaining domestic and external financial stability. The
Tunisian authorities have begun to introduce measures in these respects.
14.       Substantial efforts in domestic and external resource mobilization
rear  i I     1-     r e jf  nu cial importance to finance the planned level of



- 5 -
investment. On the domestic side, there is a great need for increased savings
and improved financial intermediation.  The Government sector, in particular,
will again be called upon to contribute substantially to the savings effort.
The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent expenditure policies and
increased revenue collections (selective tax increases and better tax collec-
tion). In addition, the public enterprise sector will have to increase sub-
stantially its contribution to public savings through better management and
especially through cost-related increases in the sale prices of selected
enterprises. Externally, Tunisia would have total financing requirements
(disbursement basis) of some $2.8 billion during 1977-81.  Given the country's
creditworthiness, Tunisia should be able to mobilize such financing without
putting undue strain on the country's debt servicing capacity (see below,
para. 16).
15.       Since the early 1960's, Tunisia has obtained large amouats of
official aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank provided a forum
for aid-coordination among major donors in the past. During 1970-77,
annual loan commitments fromn public sources averaged $235 million, or about
$43 per capita. About 73 percent of these commitments came from bilateral
public sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. About 17 percent came from oil-producing countries whose share
increased rapidly from 8 percent in 1970 to 29 percent in 1977. Commitments
from the Bank Group during 1970-77 accounted for 20 percent of total public
commitments. Most aid has been obtained on concessionary terms; in 1977 the
average terms of borrowing were 5.8 percent interest and 20 years maturity,
including 6 years of grace. During 1970-77, Tunisia also received annually
some $43 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources averaged
$34 million a year. While direct foreign private investment has been compara-
tively small, it has recently picked up momentum following increased activity
in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign investors in
manufacturing. Net direct foreign investment increased from $19 million in
1970 to $75 million in 1977.
16.       At the end of 1977, total foreign debt (disbursed and outstanding)
was estimated at about $1.6 billion, or 32 percent of GDP compared with some
40 percent in 1970. According to preliminary estimates, it has reached about
$2 billion at the end of 1978. The debt service ratio in 1977 was 8.9 per-
cent, compared with 20 percent in 1970. This significant decline in the debt
service ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase in export earnings follow-
ing the changes in world market prices in 1973/74. External borrowing at the
rate projected in the 1977-81 Plan (para. 14) would increase debt service
obligations in relation to exports to around 13 percent by 1981 and 17 percenL
by 1986, according to current Bank projections. At these levels, the debt
service burden would be manageable, particularly when seen in the light of
Tunisia's long record of prudent and skillful balance of payments and external
debt management. Tunisia is therefore considered creditworthy for further
Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
17.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-five loans
and eleven credits amounting respectively to $541.0 1/ million and $70.1
million, net of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole, project execution
has been satisfactory. As of December 31, 1978, total disbursements amounted
to 54 percent of initial appraisal forecasts, and to 67 percent of revised
forecasts. In a number of sectors, important institutional imprDvements have
been achieved and independent agencies have been created otr strengthened.
18.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to encour-
age the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of
projects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating
with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs (e.g. the large size of many priority projects) and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
19.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for -long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage,
education, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and
public transport project has accounted for 36 percent of Bank/IDA commitments
in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastruc-
ture has accounted for 28 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received
15 percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing through the
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) has accounted for 16
percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project received 5 percent
of total commitments.
20.       The Bank Group has financed five projects in the agricultural sector
and one project in the fisheries subsector in Tunisia totalling $92.2 million
and $2 million respectively. The Cooperative Farms project aimed at conso-
lidating and creating production cooperatives in northern Tunisia, mainly
through increasing productivity of small plots. As a follow up, the First
Agricultural Credit project sought to develop the private sector through
financing on-farm investments as well as providing credit facilities to small
and medium farmers to help generate employment in rural areas. Both projects
have been fully disbursed. The Second Agricultural Credit project further
contributes to improving and extending access to medium and long term credit
7/ ThiF   iunt irclides $25 million for a Fifth Water Supply project and
81'S r. .'ecor'd Urban Development project, both approved May
e,/9.



- 7 -
by small and commercial farmers.  The Bank also supports irrigation invest-
ments, through an Irrigation Rehabilitation and the Sidi Salem Multi-Purpose
projects, and other infrastructural and on-farm investments aiming at rural
developmenl:, such as the Rural Roads project, approved in June 1978. The
implementation of these projects is proceeding satisfactorily. The recovery
rate for subloans granted to fishermen under the First Fisheries project
remains a matter of concern (para 42).
21.       Cn addition to the proposed loan for a Second Fisheries project, a
loan for a Second Urban Sewerage project was approved in March 1979, and loans
for a Fifth Water Supply project and Second Urban Development project in May
1979. In t:he next and subsequent fiscal years, Bank lending intends to sup-
port the two objectives set by the Government to balance its economy, namely
promotion of agriculture, and of export-oriented and employment-generating
industries. Emphasis will be placed on agricultural production p-ojects in
less developed regions, such as an irrigation project in southern Tunisia, an
agricultural development project in the Northwest, and continued assistance
for agricultural credit to small and medium farmers and agroindustrial bor-
rowers. Bank assistance to industry will focus on small-scale industrial
enterprises, mechanical and electrical industries and the rehabilitation of
the textile subsector; this assistance may also include financing for the
Miskar project for the deve:Lopment and distribution of Tunisia's offshore gas
resources. The program wouLd also continue supporting priority infrastructure
and social development projects such as a Third Port project, a Second Popula-
tion project, a Vocational Training project and further assistance to education.
22.       The Bank Group accounted for about 20 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during L970-77. The Bank Group's shares in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1977 (including loans from private
sources) and in debt service during 1977 were 14 percent in both cases.  The
Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is expected to
remain unchanged from about 14 percent in 1977, but its share in debt service
would decline to about 12 p,ercent of total.
23.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumi-
nium fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord inte-
grated tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total
$15.6 million. IFC's Board has approved the sale of IFC shares in NPK Engrais
to the Tunisian Government.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE FISHERIES SUBSECTOR
Agriculture
24.       During the Fourth Development Plan (1973-1976), agricultural produc-
tion grew by 5.5 percent per year, and agricultural exports were nearly equal



to food imports. Investment in agriculture amounted to $139.0 million in
constant 1972 prices, representing about 13 percent of the total investments
during the plan period. In 1977, agriculture, including fisheries, accounted
for 16 percent of GDP, 35 percent of the total labor force and 16 percent of
total value of exports. During the same year, agricultural production
declined by 9.1 percent from the 1976 level, primarily because of bad weather.
As a result, overall GDP growth in 1977 was only 2.8 percent as compared with
7.5 percent in 1976.
25.       The Fifth Plan (1977-1981) aims to achieve self-sufficiency in food-
stuff (defined as a balanced commodity trade) and to reduce unemployment and
rural migration by 1981. The Plan envisages development of water resources
for irrigation to reduce output fluctuaticns in the rainfed areas, establish-
ment of new irrigation and rural infrastructures, increased use of inputs and
modernization of technology and guaranteed minimum farm-gate prices for
cereals and other basic commodities. About D 500 million in current prices
would be invested in the agricultural sector, or an average of D 50.6 million
per year in constant 1972 prices, compared to D 34.8 million per year during
the Fourth Plan. This represents an average annual increase of 45.4 percent
over the Fourth plan.
26.        Self-sufficiency in foodstuffs would require an increase of produc-
tion of about 7 percent per year during 1977-81. This anticipated growth
seems however somewhat difficult to achieve because of constraints which are
still hampering agricultural development. These constraints include (i)
limited investment in rainfed areas in the past; (ii) allocation of much of
the investment to important infrastructure projects with long gestation
periods; (iii) insufficient training and research capacity; (iv) skewed land
tenure and land fragmentation, and slow progress in implementation of land
reform legislation in public irrigation areas, (v) inefficiencies in extension
services for small and medium size farmers; (vi) inadequate supply of credit
to small farmers, and (vii) inadequate agricultural price and subsidy poli-
cies. While the Government has recognized the need to introduce measures
to remove most of these constraints, achievement of the projected growth rates
would still depend on favorable weather conditions during the Plan period. Tt
is thus important for the Government to promote production in subsectors such
as fisheries, which are largely immune to weather conditions.
The Fisheries Subsector
27.       Fisheries in the Economy.  Over the period 1971-77, the contribution
to GDP by the fisheries subsector in real terms grew at a faster rate (8.8
percent per year) than agriculture excluding fisheries (6.7 percent per year).
The volume of fish production grew at an annual rate of 9.9 percent from
27,800 t to 54,000 t. Fisheries now accounts for almost 6 percent of the
value of total agriculture output. In 1977 fish exports (mainly shrimp,
octopus and lobster) represented 7 percent of the total value of agricultural
exports as compared to 3 percent in 1970. Most of the catch is consumed fresh
on the domestic market. Also in 1977, about 27 percent of the production was



processed by canning plants for both domestic and export markets.  In the same
year, coastal fishing accounted for 44 percent of total fish production (or
23,800 t), lamparo 1/ fishing for 29 percent (or 15,400 t) and trawler fishing
for 20 percent (or 10,600 t); the remaining 4,200 t were attributable to
lagoon and other types of fishing.
28.       Over the past four years, growth in the supply of fresh fish has
lagged behind the rapidly increasing domestic demand, and the price of fish
has been increasing at an average of 6 percent per year in real terms. Low
catches have been due partly to unsatisfactory fishing techniques, and lack
of equipment and facilities, but also to the shift of fishermen to other
sectors of the economy, especially tourism. Thus, there is scope for sub-
stantial increases in fish production in Tunisia. While the maximum sustain-
able yield (MSY) of pelagic fish (living in open waters) has been estimated at
150,000 t per year, only about 16,000 t (or 11 percent of MSY) were actually
landed in 1977. Although reliable information about the MSY of demersal
species (living in bottom waters) is not available, estimates vary between
50,000 t and 80,000 t. In 1977, production of demersal species amounted to
34,000 t.
29.       In the Northern Zone 2/, fishing grounds within a three nautical
mile limit and in the Southern Zone, the continental shelf to depths of up
to 50 m are reserved for coastal fishing. Beyond these limits, all types of
fishing, including trawler fishing, are permitted. Of the 77,000 km2 of
continental shelf area down to 200 m depth along the Tunisian coast, about
17,500 km2. (or 23 percent) are reserved for coastal fishing. The Northern
Zone has 40 percent of the exploitable areas for coastal fishing, but its
share of actual coastal fisheries production is only 15 percent (compared
to 60 and 85 percent respectively, in the Southern Zone). This less than
desirable performance is attributable to the lack of adequate port facilities
and boats in the Northern Zone where sea conditions are rougher than in the
Southern Zone and were topographical conditions are not conducive to the
construction of economically viable small coastal fishing ports. In the
Southern Zone, lack of port infrastructure in sufficient water depth to allow
fishing activities at all tidal ranges is the most important constraint.
30.       At present about 45 fishing harbors including small shelters are
scattered along the Tunisian coast. The major ports (see attached Map) such
as Tabarka, Bizerte, La Goulette, Sousse, Mahdia, La Chebba, Sfax, Gabes and
Zarzis are used by trawlers and lamparo units and are equipped with basic
facilities including access roads, water and electricity supply. However,
1/   Lamparo fishing involves the use of lights to attract fish, which are
then caught in seining operations by lamparo fishing units consisting of
a carrier boat and two or three small boats.
2/   Mahdia is considered to be the dividing point between the Northern and
Southern Zone.



- 10 -
most of the landing sites used by coastal fishing exclusively are not well
equipped and very often do not provide even a basic shelter for boats. To
tap the unexploited fish resources of the coastal areas, Government needs to
construct new ports and further equip existing ones. Fishing boats adapted
to rough sea condition in the Northern Zone also need to be constructed.
31.        Increases in fish production would also require improvements in the
existing fleet to increase the size and range of individual boats. The number
of existing crafts used for coastal fishing was estimated at about 5,000 in
1977, of which about 1,400 were motorboats and the rest rowing or sailing
boats.  The most commonly found motorboats are those of 7 m to 8 m overall
length (with engines of 15 to 20 hp), which are usually constructed in local
shipyards.  Although large numbers of this type of boat are used all along the
Tunisian coast, they are considered to be too small for the remote fishing
grounds.  These boats which have low daily catch rates, frequently transport
the catch on deck together with the entire fishing gear and the fish often
deteriorates before the catch is landed. Rowing boats and most of the sailing
boats do not have decks, which makes them vulnerable to wave action. Even
motorboats do not provide adequate shelter to the fishermen. The 190 boats of
11.25 m overall length, sold under the First Fisheries project were designed
to provide better protection and to permit longer fishing trips. These boats
which are now well accepted by fishermen (para 41) have a daily catch rate of
about 70 kg as compared to 35 kg per day for the smaller motorboats.
32.        Subsector Organization.  Administration of the fisheries subsector
is vested in several ministries and government agencies. The most important
ones are the Directorate of Fisheries (Direction des Services des Peches -
DSP) in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Harbors and Aerial
Bases in the Ministry of Equipment (Harbor Department), the Merchant Marine
Department ia the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Office
National des Peches (ONP) under the Ministry of Agriculture, the Rural Devel-
opment Program under the Ministry of Planning and the Banque Nationale de
Tunisie (BNT). The responsibilities of these various agencies are widely
overlapping and not clearly defined. In the absence of coordination and
cooperation among these ministries and agencies, contradictory policy deci-
sions have often been made, and the implementation of action programs has met
with serious difficulties. These action programs have often lacked coherence
and comprehensiveness, and were more designed to meet the short-term needs of
individual agencies than the long-term needs of the subsector. All these
factors have led to a weak and inefficient administration of the subsector.
Because of these institutional weaknesses, project preparation and imple-
mentation have, more than in other sectors, encountered difficulties, which
although eventually resolved, have cost the Government time and money. Use of
existing shore and ports facilities, supervision of marketing and distribution
channels, training and research programs, and policy-making and implementation
processes need improvement.
33.        For instance, DSP is entrusted with formulation and implementation
of fisheries policies, enforcement of fishing regulations, preparation of



- L. -
statistics, research and devrelopment, technical appraisal of fishermen's loan
requests for boats, extension training, and administration of the coastal
fishing fleet. DSP has 8 regional offices and 11 local offices, most of them
located in the key fishery centers, but lack of budgetary allocations has
severely impaired its capaciLty to hire and maintain the staff required to
discharge its functions. This has resulted in inefficient extension work,
unreliable fishery statistics, lack of proper research and very often the
abandonment of regulatory and training functions to Government agencies,
such as ON]?, with regard to administration of the coastal fleet, and BNT with
regard to subloan appraisals. This situation has frequently led to conflicts
of interest because some of the agencies involved are themselves fishing
operators and do not have the legal status to carry out the tasks assigned to
them.
34.       Construction and maintenance of all port infrastructure is the
responsibility of the Harbor Department. This Department also shares with ONP
and the municipalities the responsibility for management of a number of fish
ports and shore facilities. It is responsible for the entire supervision
of the port activities. In practice, however, different agencies are involved
in the operation of port and shore facilities in each port. Lack of clearly
defined responsibilities and coordination of the activities of the concerned
agencies has resulted in inadequate maintenance of ports and shore facilities,
and difficulties in identifying problems and planning for new construction.
35.       Other departments involved in the subsector include the Merchant
Marine Department for navigational security services, personnel management of
seamen and fishermen, the fishing fleet and fishing facilities. The Depart-
ment is also responsible for approving boat designs, supervising construction
and delivering certificates of inspection. While it approves the designs for
each boat type, it hardly carries out any supervision during boat construc-
tion, leaving the shipyards, especially those of ONP, at liberty to introduce
modifications in the design in accordance with the wishes of individual
fishermen. This department is more involved with the merchant marine and is
ill-equipped to supervise and direct fishing activities. The ONP has respon-
sibility for promoting and developing the fishing industry and for marketing
fish production for domestic consumption and export. ONP's marketing efforts
are deficient, and since it has assumed responsibility for operating a large
trawler fleet as well as ship building and ship repair facilities, its capac-
ity to properly carry out all its functions is limited.  The Rural Development
Program shares with the DSP the responsibility for training fishermen and
craftsmen of related industries but there has been little coordination so
far between the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning regarding training
facilities and programs; training standards are not uniform, and the Merchant
Marine Department is awarding diplomas and certificates only after long delays.
36.       In summary, both physical and institutional constraints are presently
hindering development of the fisheries subsector in Tunisia. A comprehensive
development strategy for cc,astal fisheries would need to include the following
actions: (a) development of marine and shore facilities to harbor fishing
fleets, handle fishermen's production and service their fleets; this would



- 12 -
mean constructing new fishing ports and modernizing existing ones wherever it
is technically and economically feasible; (b) provision of adequate equipment,
mainly boats and fishing gear; (c) establishment of a Central Authority with
well defined responsibilities, budget and staff to:
(i) decide on policy in the subsector;
(ii) initiate and plan a fisheries development strategy,
including promotion of public and private investments;
(iii) implement the regulatory functions in the subsector;
(iv) promote training and research; And
(v) administer the country's fisheries resources and
Government's fisheries investments along the coast.
37.       The Financial System and Fisheries Financing.  BNT administers
Government concessionary credit and subsidies to fishermen through the Fonds
Special d'Encouragement a la Peche (FOSEP). As of November 1978, FOSEP funds
committed by BNT amounted to about $33 million in loans and $6.5 million in
subsidies.  In addition, $2 million in IDA funds under the First Fisheries
project (Cr. 270-TUN) and $0.4 million in related subsidies were committed as
of that date. BNT does not assume the default risk for FOSEP loans, but bears
50 percent of the default risk for the IDA Credit. The Government, until 1977,
provided funds to fishermen from the Rural Development Program, for the
purchase of fisheries equipment, but since then only seasonal credits have
been provided under this program. Total resources allocated to the fisheries
subsector are modest, but could substantially be increased if the institu-
tional constraints mentioned in paragraph 32 were removed.
38.       Government subsidizes investments in agriculture and fisheries as
part of its efforts to increase the standard of living of the rural population
and to reduce rural-urban migration. At present, the Government provides sub-
sidies of up to 40 percent for investments in agriculture and 15 percent for
individual investments in fisheries, especially for purchases of boats. The
15 percent Government subsidy for the purchase of motorized boats and fishing
equipment applies to investments financed by both FOSEP and IDA subloans. The
loan amount is 75 percent of investment costs and fishermen are expected to
finance the remaining 10 percent. Interest rates are set at 6 percent for all
loans financed through the Fonds Special de Developpement Agricole (FOSDA) and
FOSEP. FOSEP regulations set ceilings on subloans for boats not exceeding
11 m at about $25,000, and for those of 12 m to 16 m at about $37,500.
39.       Development Objectives.  Fisheries are expected to make a signif-
icant contribution to increases in agricultural production during the Plan
period (1977-81). Fish production is projected to increase by 12.4 percent
per year from 49,000 t in 1976 to 88,000 t in 1981. To achieve this increase,
investment of D 46 million ($115 million equivalent) in current prices is
foreseen fo-- development of harbor and related facilities and for equipment,



- 13 -
research and training. This amount represents 9 percent of total agricultural
investment:s planned during 1977-81. The average annual real investment in
fisheries during the Fifth Plan would be about 40 percent greater than that
implemented during the Fourth Plan (1973-76).
40.        A second major objective is the creation of permanent employment in
the subsector to increase output, and reduce migration to urban centers and
tourism areas along the coaist. Estimates of the number of fishermen vary
from 18,000 to 22,500.  Included in this figure are about 12,000 fishermen
involved in coastal fishingy activities. The Plan envisages the creation of
3,000 new jobs for fishermen by 1981 and the establishment of training pro-
grams.  Employment creation in the fisheries subsector is vitally important
because oE the chronic unemployment and underemployment levels in agriculture,
and reductions of manpower demands in tourism due to slow growth of tourism
activities during the past three years.
41.        Performance under the First Fisheries Project.  In 1971, a credit
of $2 million was made for the First Fisheries Project mainly to finance the
procurement of about 335 fully equipped fishing boats, spare parts and sup-
porting services. Due to the institutional weaknesses (paras 32-36) and other
difficulties, this Project has faced major implementation problems and delays
in execution. Disbursements have been slower than expected because of two
main reasons. First, a new boat design developed after Credit signature was
found to be generally unacceptable to the fishermen and had to be altered.
An existing boat design with slight modifications was finally accepted and
the first hulls were built only in 1974. Second, procurement difficulties
resulted from the Bank's insistence that Tunisian authorities comply with
agreed ICB procedures by awarding the engine contract to the lowest evaluated
bidder, whereas the DSP would have preferred purchasing engines which were
already well accepted by fishermen. As a result of these difficulties, there
was a long delay in project implementation, Initial boat sales were sluggish
and picked up only after DSP had introdu;.-e  a mobile repair unit which made
periodic visits to ports and was also av.,ilable on call.
42.        Recovery of sub-,)a,- r             fisherrten tinder thc Ciedi: 1-ia;
been difficulh  f; r -er - r zs            '   large percentae- of f sh en
received fuods from the Ri          2 -e  Progr..m to finance the- requi7'ed 1"
percent advance payment for the acqu            of boats- Most of the fisherme-
have therefore regarded BNT loans as g          as well; (ii) the la.k of coopera-
tior between BNT and DSP in attemptinr  L .cover loan repayments anl insuf-
ficient personnel have aggravated this sl uation; and (iii) credit supervision
and a collection system of fisheries subloans by BNT have been non-existent
in the past.  None of the twenty BNT branch offices along the coast had a
collection agent. As a result of these deficiencies the recovery rates
declined steadily to a level of about 6 percent in September 1978 for IDA
financed subloans. Upon the Bank's recommendation, measures were taken to:
(i) improve the cooperation between DSP and BNT's technical services; (ii)
recruit seven BNT recovery agents, and (iii) start legal proceedings against
loarn defaulters.  This has resulted in an iimpro,ement in the recovery rate to
23 percent as of April 30, 1979. The loan reco-ery performance is expected to



- 14 -
improve further, once BNT's newly recruited recovery agents will be in full
operation. An understanding was reached before negotiations that BNT will
take all necessary actions to achieve by the end of 1983 a debt recovery ratio
for subloans extended under the IDA Credit of not less than 80 percent with
30 percent by end of June and 40 percent end of 1979. To that effect a per-
manent Coordinating Committee between BNT and DSP has been constituted to
monitor the supervision and subloan recovery efforts and to recommend
measures to be taken against any defaulters. Also, the proposed reorganiza-
tion of the fisheries subsector under this project is expected to improve the
situation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       As a follow-up to the First Fisheries project, the Tunisian Govern-
ment requested Bank assistance in financing a second project which would
contribute to the integrated development of coastal fisheries. A study
financed by the Bank's Project Preparation Facility and the Government was
undertaken by the consulting firm Societe Generale de Technique et d'Etudes
(SGTE) and supervised jointly by the Tunisian Ministry of Equipment and the
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program. The Second project was appraised in October/
November 1978. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2436-TUN, dated June 6, 1979)
is being circulated separately. The main features of the loan and the project
are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map showing
the location of the ports covered by the project is also attached.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would aim at contributing to an increase in
coastal fisheries production by about 8,800 t per year at full development.
This would be achieved by providing new boats and by constructing urgently
needed port infrastructure and shore facilities. Increase in fish production
would also contribute to foreign exchange earnings directly through the export
of frozen octopus and shrimp, and indirectly through additional consumption of
high quality fish by tourists. A further major objective would be to offer
improved income opportunities to fishermen, at present engaged in less efficient
fisheries activities at the port sites, and to create new jobs for fishermen,
many of whom would come from the rural poor and who are at present unemployed
or underemployed. Additional employment would be created in auxiliary indus-
tries like boat building and repair, wholesale and retail outlets and fisheries
supply stores. The project would also improve fish supply and the uneven dis-
tribution of fish among the population. Perhaps the most important long-term
objective of the project would be the establishment of a central authority,
with well defined responsibilities, to administer the fisheries subsector.
Thus the project would provide an institutional framework to improve adminis-
trative efficiency in the fisheries subsector. Better access to credit for
fishermen and improvement of their repayment performance on subloans through
adequate supervision would be an additional institutional objective. The
project would consist of the construction of small fishing ports and various
shore facilities, the provision of boats, training of fishermen, studies and
research.



- 15 -
45.       Ports.  The major component of the project would be the construction
of small fishing ports equipped with shore facilities to serve as bases for
coastal fishing activities. In the course of project preparation and appraisal
47 sites were visited of which 10 sites were finally retained as least cost
alternatives. The ports, which are evenly spread from Cap Bon to the Gulf of
Bou Grara, are the following: Sidi Daoud, Beni Khiar, Hergla, Salakta,
En Najet, La Louata, Mahares, Zarat, Bou Grara and Adjim.  The new ports to
the north of Mahdia would be enclosed by break-waters because of their exposure
and adequate depths close inshore, while the port installations and landing
facilities south of Mahdia would be constructed well offshore because of the
flat foreshlores and large t:Ldes in this area. All the ports constructed under
the projeci: would be provided with a service quay, jetties to moore the boats,
a fish halL and boat repair facilities, and most of them with a cold store, an
ice-plant and other necessary installations. Construction and equipping of
additional shore facilities would also be made available for the axisting
ports of Glhar el Melh, La Goulette, Monastir, Saiada, Teboulba, Mahdia and
Houmt Souk.
46.      'Boats.  The Project would finance about 400 boats of 11.25 m overall
length. In accordance with fishermen's preference and experience the boats
would in mDst cases have wooden hulls. They would be equipped with inboard
diesel engines and a full set of fishing gear. Although quite similar in
design and equipment to those constructed and sold under the First Fisheries
project, a number of small but important technical improvements would be
introduced. Spare parts would be included in this component. Ferro-cement
boats constructed under an FAQ financed program as well as fiberglass hulls
boats would also be eligible for financing under the project should fishermen
request them. For fishing along the northern coastline, where seas are rough
in winter time, about 30 coastal fishing boats of 13.80 m overall length would
be constructed under the project. They would have a greater fishing radius to
take account of the lower density of harbors and would offer better protection
in rough weather.
47.       Technical Assistance for Training, Training Equipment and Vehicles.
The training element of the Project would focus on on-the-job training of
fishermen who are normally not willing to spend several months in training.
For this purpose, it would provide for: (i) the staffing and equipping of
about 10 mobile training units including the provision of about 12 boat
engines for demonstration purposes and ten van-type vehicles; (ii) technical
assistance to train instructors for the mobile units and training institu-
tions, and (iii) short-term fellowships to instructors at the end of their
training period in Tunisia. To facilitate administration of the new ports,
10 small pick-up trucks would be financed for the regional offices of the
Fisheries Authority.
48.       Studies.  The Project would also finance the preparation of fea-
sibility studies for the expansion of the ports of Kelibia and Tabarka. The
Government is interested in expanding these harbors because of their impor-
tance as catalyst for the development of the Cap Bon and the Northwest
Regions. In addition, the project would include a comprehensive study of the
possibilit:ies of lagoon fishing, mainly in the Lakes of El Biban, Tunis and



- 16 -
Ichkeul and the Gulf of Bou Grara. These lagoons with small openings to the
sea are considered to have large fish resources which are at present under-
exploited. Finally, research work would be undertaken under the project to
determine the entire coastline fish stocks and the maximum sustainable yields.
Project Implementation
49.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years and is
expected to be completed by the end of 1984. The construction of ports would
take three years and be completed by the end of 1982; the construction of
boats would start in 1980 and continue until 1984. The training and techni-
cal assistance component could start as soon as the first boat hulls were
built and the first engines delivered, i.e. by the end of 1980. On-the-job
training of fishermen would be carried out throughout the implementation
period and could be continued after 1984, if deemed necessary. The study for
the expansion of the harbors in Kelibia and Tabarka would commence in 1980
and be finalized by 1982. Research work for the determination of fish stocks
would start as soon as possible in 1980, and would carry on throughout the
project implementation period. The study on the potential of lagoon fishing
would also commence in 1980 and is expected to be finalized in 1982. The
Ministry of Equipment (Harbor Department), the newly created Fisheries
Authority (FA) and BNT would be in charge of project implementation (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.01).
50.       Port Construction and Facilities.  The Harbor Department would be
responsible for all port construction, including infrastructure and shore
facilities (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). In the supervision of
construction and installation, it would be assisted by consulting engineers.
A total of 108 man/months of expatriate consultants and about 720 man/months
of local consultants would be needed. The Harbor Department would also be
responsible for hiring a consulting firm for the preparation of feasibility
studies for the port expansion in Kelibia and Tabarka, for which approximately
40 man/months would be needed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that for construction supervision and for the studies, consultants would be
employed whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
51.       Coordination and Supervision.  A Fisheries Authority (FA) would be
created as a public agency with a legal personality and financial autonomy and
with appropriate resources, functions and responsibilities under the supervi-
sion of an appropriate ministry, to combine all regulatory functions and
to regroup services connected with the administration of the fisheries sub-
sector. The establishment of an efficient Fisheries Authority prior to Loan
effectiveness would be essential for successful project implementation since
this institution would be involved in the following project activities:
(i) procurement of boats, equipment and vehicles, including
the preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation and
award of contracts;
(ii) supervision of boat construction and pre-delivery inspection;



- 17 -
(iii) i.dentification of applicants for subloans and preparation
of technical/economic appraisals of fishermen's applications
for subloans;
(iv)  coordination with other agencies involved in project imple-
mentation, especially:  (a) the Harbor Department regarding
port construction;; (b) Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT)
regarding subloan supervision and collection; and (c) Office
National des Peches (ONP) regarding marketing and exports
of fish;
(v)  collection of harbor fees from fishermen;
(vi)  operation of project ports and shore facilities until they can
be leased under commercial lease agreements, and then suiper-
vising the leases;
(vii) supervision of the study on the potential of lagoon fishing
and the research program on assessment of fish stocks and
Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY);
(viii) overall responsibility for organizing and implementing project-
related training programs;
(ix)  monitoring the project progress and the project impact on the
fisheries subsector;
(x) preparation of periodic progress reports; and
(xi)  promotion of new fishermen's cooperatives or similar profes-
sional organizations and supervision of their activities.
52.       During negotiations, agreement was reached that, prior to Loan
effectiveness (i) appropriate legislation would be introduced and promulgated
by the Tunisian Government to establish the Fisheries Authority, whose role
would comprise, inter alia, the tasks described above; (ii) the Director of
the Authority be appointed; and (iii) the Government would make the necessary
arrangements to enable the FA to perform all its obligations under the project
(draft Loa,n Agreement, Sections 6.01(a) and 6.02 (a)).
53.       Boat Financing.  As under the First Fisheries project, subloan
disbursements to fishermen would be channelled through BNT.  In its subloan
supervision and collection efforts, more responsibilities would be given to
BNT branches along the Tunisian coast; BNT would also cooperate closely with
the Fisheries Authority to meet the project objectives (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part B and draf't Project Agreement, Schedule). Before loan
effectiveness, BNT would recruit seven recovery agents for its branches at a
ratio of one recovery agent. per 50 outstanding subloans financed by the Bank.
Agreement to this effect was obtained during negotiations (draft Project



- 18 -
Agreement, Section 3.01(b) and draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
Assurances were also obtained that BNT would exercise all means of collection
at its disposal against defaulters and that FA would suspend or not renew
their fishing licences (Draft Project Agreement, Schedule, paragraph 4).
54.        Fishermen Organizations.  The construction of new ports would be an
opportunity for the fishermen to establish service cooperatives or similar
organizations. These would be promoted under the project, and if successful,
the system could be expanded to include other Tunisian fishing ports. Member-
ship would be on a voluntary basis. These organizations would be eligible for
renting and managing port facilities leased by the Fisheries Authority and
would provide their members with various services, including eventually
short-term seasonal credit to be refinanced by BNT (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Section II, paragraphs l(a) and 3(c)). They could expand their
services by guaranteeing loan repayment of their members to BNT for the
acquisition of boats. This could replace the present cumbersome system of
boat mortgaging. Through appropriate marketing arrangements, they could also
participate in loan recovery.
55.       Operation and Maintenance.  The FA will assume responsibility for
the operation and administration of the ports to be constructed under the
project. The FA will appoint a harbor-master prior to the initial operation
of any of the ports and related shore facilities. He would be responsible
for (i) the smooth operation of all port facilities and (ii) the planning
and execution of maintenance and repair works. Boat servicing and boat
repairs would be done in the repair facilities attached to each port.  All
shore facilities would be leased to ONP, service cooperatives or commercial
operators and would be operated by them on a commercial basis. Assurances
to this effect and regarding the appointment of harbor masters were obtained
during negotiations (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03, and Schedule 5,
Section II, paragraph l(a)).
56.       Monitoring, Auditing and Project Accounts.  All project activities
including progress on port and boat construction and status of subloans would
be closely monitored by the Fisheries Authority. Special attention would be
given to a complete recording of catch including the fishermen's own consump-
tion. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an adequately trained
employee of the Fisheries Authority would monitor on a sample basis the impact
of the project on fish production, profitability of boats, income of boats
owners and crew members, fish prices and supply in various ports, and that
results of these efforts would be periodically reported to the management of
the Fisheries Authority and the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5,
Section II, paragraphs 5(b) and 5(c)). During project implementation, the
Fisheries Authority would be required to submit quarterly and annual progress
reports to the Bank in which the progress of all project activities would be
described including the budgetary requirements and proposed budgetary alloca-
tions for the following year for the departments and agencies involved in the
carrying out of the project (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c) and Schedule
5, Section II, paragraph 5(c)). The Harbor Department, the Fisheries Authority
and BNT would maintain adequate project accounts. BNT would have these
accounts and its annual financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audited financial statements would be submitted
to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year



- 19 -
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02). Not later than six months after
Project completion, the Government through the Fisheries Authority would
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Project completion report (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06(d)).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
57.       The total project cost is estimated at D 27.0 million ($67.6 mil-
lion) of which the foreign exchange component is D 11.5 million ($28.5 million)
or about 42 percent. Allowances for physical and price contingencies of $12.2
million, and duties and taxes of $6.5 million, representing 18 percent and 10
percent of total Project cost,, respectively, are included. The cost estimates
are expressed in projected 1980 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent
are added for port works, other civil works and equipment. Price contingencies
for local and foreign exchange components are estimated to be 6 percent per
year between 1980 and 1984 in accordance with the projected rate of inflation.
The estimated total cost, including contingencies, duties and taxes, for the
ports and shore facilities and supervision of construction and installation is
$42.7 million. The total cost of boats and spare parts is estimated to be
$16.3 million, and the costs of training and equipment, and studies and
research, $7.2 million and $1.4 million respectively. The average cost of
consulting services is estimated at $7,800 per man-month for services provided
from abroad and $1,500 per man-month for services provided locally.
58.       Th,e proposed Bank loan of $28.5 million would finance the total
foreign exchange cost of the project. The Government would be the borrower
and would bear the foreign exchange risk. A foreign exchange component of 40
percent is estimated on port infrastructure based on the assumption that the
works would be undertaken by a joint venture of foreign and local firms.
Other civil works are estimated to have a foreign exchange component of 15
percent on the assumption that most of these contracts will go to local firms.
Of the loca'L cost of $39.1 million equivalent, $37.0 million would be met by
the Government, $0.5 million by BNT and $1.6 million by the fishermen.
59.       About $16.6 million of Bank funds and $27.3 million equivalent of
Government funds would be made available to the Ministry of Equipment for
civil works and equipment in 10 port sites and in the existing ports, the
supervision of construction and installation, and the feasibility studies
for Kelibia and Tabarka. Dollars 0.4 million have already been paid under
the Bank's Project Preparation Facility and the Government has contributed
$0.3 million from its own funds. Another $2.1 million of Bank funds and
$4.8 million equivalent of Government Eunds would be made available to the
Fisheries Authority for training activities, studies, vehicles and related
incremental personnel cost. The remaining $9.8 million of Bank funds and $4.9
million equivalent of Government funds would be made available to BNT for boat
constructicn. Bank funds would be allocated to the capital budgets of the
Ministry of Equipment and the Fisheries Authority while the Government would
onlend Bank funds to BNT. Government funds to BNT would be as a loan and, in
an equal amount, a grant, the latter to cover the subsidy for the acquisition
of boats. Prior to loan effectiveness, the Government would (i) make arrange-
ments with the Fisheries Authority regarding the use of Government and Bank



- 20 -
funds (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Section III); and (ii) conclude a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BNT to specify that BNT would obtain Government
and Bank funds at 2.5 percent interest for 12 years, including 5 years of
grace and the necessary subsidy as grant. A 3.5 percent interest spread would
be necessary to cover BNT's administrative cost and the lending risk (Draft
Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(b)).
60.       Under the project Agreement between the Bank and BNT, subloans to
fishermen would be made by BNT at the FOSEP current interest rate of 6 percent
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule, Section 2). This rate is the same
as that charged for agricultural lending under FOSDA and under the Second
Agricultural Loan (No. 1340-TUN) and is about the same as the past and pro-
jected rates of inflation in Tunisia (1975: 5.4 percent, 1977: 6.7 percent,
1978: 5.3 percent, 1979-1981: 6 percent). Sublending conditions under the
project would be reviewed periodically to determine their justification and
would be adjusted if required (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)).
In compliance with the Government policy to have banking institutions assume
a greater portion of the lending risk, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that BNT would assume 25 percent of the default risk on subloans
granted to the fishermen under the proposed project (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule, Section 5). As Government intends to have BNT gradually assume an
ever increasing portion of the risk, an understanding was reached during
negotiations that it would review periodically the rates of BNT's risk assump-
tions in the fisheries subsector.
Cost Recovery
61.       In the past, no user charges, such as port fees, have been levied
on fishermen for coastal fishing. This form of indirect subsidization would
be gradually eliminated under the project, as the construction of the ten
new ports would provide a good opportunity to start a system of levying port
fees. Consequently, during negotiations assurances were obtained that cost
recovery for project investments will be introduced to insure coverage of
operating and maintenance costs and to the extent possible, depreciation
concerning fishing port infrastructure. To this effect, the Government will
carry out a study during 1980, and pursuant to its recommendations take, by
the end of 1982, regulatory measures requiring fishermen using ports and
related shore facilities to pay fees whose rate, variations and terms and
conditions of collection will be determined by the study (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03). All shore facilities will be leased to commercial operators by
the Fisheries Authority with rental fees covering operation and maintenance
costs, depreciation and to the extent possible a reasonable rate of return on
investment (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Section II, paragraph 1(a)).
Concerning coastal fishing boats, each fisherman will contribute 10 percent of
the boat investment cost, 75 percent will be financed by BNT and 15 percent
will be made available as subsidy from FOSEP (draft Project Agreement, Schedule,
paragraph 2(b)). Under the project, the Government will recover through
taxes, duties, port and rental fees all of the operating and miaintenance costs
and more than 80 percent of the total investment cost for port infrastructure,
shore facilities and the subsidy on boat investment.



- 21 -
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       The Harbor Department would group contracts for port works, shore
facilities and related equipment totalling $42.7 million together in lots of
sufficient size to attract competition and award them on the basis of inter-
national comioetitive bidding i.n accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
Contracts noi: exceeding the cost of $250,000 equivalent for civil works and
$100,000 equivalent for equipment would be let under competitive bidding pro-
cedures, advertised locally, provided that the aggregate amount of all such
contracts woald not exceed $750,000 equivalent for civil works and $300,000
equivalent for equipment (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part C, para-
graph 1). Since Tunisian shilpyards have sufficient capacity to guarantee
adequate competition and since experience shows that competition from foreign
boat yards for wooden hulls is highly improbable, these hulls, amounting to
$9.3 million, would be procured by the Fisheries Authority on the basis of
local competitive bidding (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part C, paragraph
2). Contracts of $2.2 million for fishing gear, of $4.9 million for boat
engines and $2.2 million for refrigerated trucks would be procured by the
Fisheries Authority under international competitive bidding procedures.
Fishermen would have the option to choose between two different engine makes
in order to avoid procurement problems sivilar to those under the first
project (para. 41), and ensure proper after sale service. Vehicles and other
equipment totalling $2.0 million would be procured under competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally. For bid evaluation purposes, Tunisian manu-
facturers would be granted a margin of preference for goods produced locally,
of 15 percent or customs duties, whichever is lower. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Part B).
63.       The loan would be disbursed against:  (i) 35 percent of the cost of
all civil works contracts for port infrastructure and buildings representing
the estimated foreign exchange component; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures for aLl imported equipraent for shore facilities and vehicles and 55
percent of Local expenditures for the cost of goods purchased locally; (iii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for all imported boat engines and boat
equipment, ;30 percent of local expenditures for the goods purchased locally,
and 30 percent of expenditures for boat hulls, (iv) 100 percent of foreign and
70 percent of local expenditure construction for fully equipped ferro cement
or fiberglass boats and (v) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants
and fellowships. The $430,000 advance frcm the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) wouLd be reimbursed to the Bank under a separate disbursement category.
The loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The closing date of
the loan would be June 30, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
64.        The overall project economic rate of return based on all quanti-
fiable benefits and costs is 27 percent. The economic rates of return
for the ports range from 17 percent to 35 percent. Benefits included in the
analysis are the projected total catch vailue of new boats and the incremental
catch value of the existing fleet due to tlhe increased number of fishing days
as a result of the port facilities. However, the scope for potential benefits



- 22 -
is far greater than those included in the analysis as there are benefits
which do not lend themselves to quantification, but which are nonetheless
substantial, such as training, institution building, etc.
65.       In addition to the incremental fish production, other benefits
derived from the project include improved income opportunities for about
2,000 fishermen at present. operating under difficult conditions in the port
sites, and new jobs for about 1,750 fishermen, many of whom are at present
underemployed or unemployed. It is expected that a high percentage of these
fishermen would be drawn from the absolute poverty target group in the rural
areas ($100 per year) and would remain unemployed without the project. As
fishermen, they will have an average annual income of about $2,700. The
430 skippers of the project boats would earn about $4,700 in 1985 at full
development (expressed in constant terms) while the 430 engine operators are
expected to earn about $4,000. In addition, another 250 jobs (which would
pay a remuneration of about $3,700) would be created in other related indus-
tries and services which would be expanded under the project such as the
wholesale and retail markets, cooperatives and fisheries supply stores, ship
building and repair facilities, the Fisheries Authority's staff, and training
instructors. One of the most important long-term economic benefits of the
project would stem from the increased efficiency in the administration of the
fisheries subsector as a whole as a result of the operation of the Fisheries
Authorty which would be established under the project. The credit system and
recovery of subloans would improve with the appointment of recovery agents in
BNT's branches, thus preparing the subsector for expanded credit on a finan-
cially sound basis. The marketing system and quality control is also expected
to improve under the supervision of the Authority, and with the provision of
additional refrigerated trucks the uneven distribution of fish marketing is
expected to change over time as new markets are penetrated in the interior.
66.       The sensitivity tests indicate that the risk to the project's
economic viability as a result of decreases in benefits or increases in
costs is minimal. Even a delay in the boats construction by one year, which
would cause benefits to lag one year, would result in a total project economic
rate of return of 23 percent. The main risk involved in the project would
result from a delay in the implementation and the lack of efficiency in the
operation of the new organizational set-up proposed under the project, which
would affect the supervision and control, the training efforts and the rates
of recovery of subloans made to fishermen. By addressing the technical and
organizational deficiencies, there is reasonable ground to expect an improved
performance from the fisheries subsector in the future in both the first
project and the proposed one. Considering the important potential benefits
of the proposed project, these risks are well worth taking.
Environmental Impact
67.       Pollution caused by effluent of Project boats would be minor and
would have no important effect on sea water contamination. Discharge from
shore facilities in the new port sites would be minimal. Waste water would
be discharged into the sewer system built for each port site. The existing
level of contamination of the Mediterranean Sea along the Tunisian coast



- 23 -
is monitored by the Tunisian Environmental Agency. Areas with dangerous
levels of sea water contamination are the Gulf of Gabes and the area around
Tunis.  The Tunisian Government has recently initiated a program to halt the
discharge of industrial effluent into the Mediterranenan Sea. The Government
has agreed to inform the Bank regularly on pollution levels along the Tunisian
coastline (draft loan AgreemerLt, Section 4.04).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Banque Nationale
de Tunisie, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan and Project Agreements con-
form generally to the normal pattern for fisheries projects. Features of
the draft Loan and Project Agreements of special interest are referred to
in the appropriate paragraphs of this Report and on Section III of Annex III.
69.       Special conditions of effectiveness are:  (i) the Fisheries Authority
has been established with resources, functions and responsibilities as set
forth on Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement, its Director has been
appointed an,d taken up his duties and the necessary arrangements have been
made by the Government to provide the Authority with resources and enable it
to perform its responsibilities under the project; (ii) the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and BNT has been signed and authorized; and
(iii) BNT has recruited agents in a number acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
70.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement: of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 18, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                                    ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TItNISIA                                                 a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL            164.2                                                     SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGER
AGRICULTURAL       76.1                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP 1d    GROUP Le
GNU PPt C'VF l' "'US)                 220.0        360.0     860.0           1438.5      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      190.0       261.0      447.0            816.7      578.3       1525.0
iiPtil,A?iN AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          4.0          5.0       5.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 32.3          42.6      47.0             45.8       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
FER SQe. KM.                       25.0         30.0      36.0             23.2       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      54.0         67.0      78.0            112.4       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTJRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.4         45.5      43.1             46.0       42.9         34.8
15-h4 YRS.                          52.6        50.5       52.7             50.6       53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    5.0          4.0       4.2              3.3        3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 /f       2.3 If    2.3 /f           2.9        2.5          1.6
"RBAN                                 -          3.0 TR    4.7              5.0        4.7          3.3
CRUDE BERTUt RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.6         44.7      40.0             45.0       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.5         16.9      13.8             13.7        10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1          3.4       3.0              3.4         2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         29.2      58.1
USERS (PERCENT oF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0      13.7             14.7       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             124.8        100.0     128.2            107.1      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0         93.0     102.0             99.2      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0         63.0 /h   67.4             63.4       63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0         14.0 /h   20.0             16.4       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE S       .          1.5 L      ..               ..         8.0         1.9
HEALrH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1          51.6      54.1             53.7       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  . .        125.0      62.6 /I          77.7       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         49.0        ..             59.1        56.8        67.7
URBAN                                ..         92.0      93.0             85.9        79.0        83.5
RURAL                                ..         17.0        ..             38.0       31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         62.0        .              64.3       30.9         70.3
100.0        ..             94.5       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                ..         34.0        ..             27.7       16.1         38.3
POPUiLATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0       5950.0    4620.0           4271.6     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..        730.0     670.0 /k        2077.4     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             360.0 /1    410.0      410.0 /k,m       580.2      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..        280.0     230.0 /k,m       310.0      229.6        129.9
RURAL                                ..        930.0    1040.0 /k,.          ..     2947.9        965.9
ADMISS'ON' PFR HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.1                       22.0        22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI                                ..          5.1 /i    6.0              5.4         5.2         3.9
UJRBAN                               ..          5.1 J     5.8               ..         5.0
RURAL                                ..          5.1 /1    6.1               ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
T)rAL                                ..          3.2 /i     ..               ..         2.0         0.9
EJRBAN                               ..          2.7 /5     ..              1.8         1.5         0.8
CO'RAL.                              ..          3.6 /i     ..               ..         2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
OrAtO                                           24.0 'i     .              40.3        64.1        59.2
URBA'                                .            .          .               ..        67.8        78.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             12.2        34.1        12.5



-25 -                                            ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 5
TLNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERlAGES
TUN IS IA                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTINgTE)
SAHE        SAME     NEXT HIIGEER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION Lc   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
EDUCAT I)N
ADJUS rED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMtARY:    TOTAL                66.0        100.0      95.0            80.8         99.8       97.6
FEIALE               43.0        79.0       75.0            61.8        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                12.0         23.0      20.0            23.6         33.8       47.8
FEMALE                6.0         13.0      13.0            18.2        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0         12.0      17.0             6.7         12.8       22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.0         48.0      40.0            31.5         34.9       25.4
SECONDARY                         16.0         28.0      23.0            22.3         22.2       24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.5         24.0 i      ..            50.1         71.8       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0         13.0      18.0            14.5         12.4       32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        41.0         77.0      49.0           125.8        104.5      201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         10.0      27.0            34.5         28.1       97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0         16.0      28.0             17.4        45.2       70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       2.3              1.6         4.6        4.4
EM PLO Y1E NT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1400.0       1300.0 Li 1.880.0
FEUILkE (PERCENT)                  6.1          7.7       8.5             9.3         25.7       17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             69.0         57.0 Li   37.4            42.0         46.2       38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.6         21.0
PARTIC]PATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0         23.7      23.7             26.9        33.8       33.7
MALE                                50.2         44.2      44.0             46.6        48.1       50.8
FEMALE                               3.3          3.6       4.0              5.3        17.3       12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.8 /I    1.4              1.9         1.4        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCEGNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEiVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..           ..      17.0               *-        23.6       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ,.      42.0               ..        52.3       47.9
LO4EST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       6.0               ..         4.3        3.2
LO'WEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..      15.0              ..         13.1       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOMIE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     198.0               ..       191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      94.0            142.0       193.1      157.9
ESTIMArED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USf PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     500.0           236.1        319.8      448.8
RURAL                                .           ..        ..            144.7       197.7      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      20.0             21.5        19.8       23.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      15.0             37.4        35.1       54.5
Not avalable
Nat applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated countSy in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifors.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data, for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recen.t Estinate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa 6 Middle East;  Id   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Due to etsigration. population growth rate is Lower than rate of
satural increase;  IR  1956-66;   /h  Av. 1964-66;   /i  1966;   LI  Registered only;   /k  1972;  /1  1962;
/n  Government hospital estELblishments only.
September, 1978



-26-                                                                        ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS O7 SOCIAL INDICATORS
.a    The adjusted group averaged for each indicator are population-weIghted geometric  means, escluding the e-tre,e            values of the indicator and the most
p Ioulated drotiry In each group   barrae of countries anong the tndicatore depends as acailahilIty of data sd is not unifor.  Due to lack of data,
urol. aversa'..  for IspPil Iuc;A,,I   IIFnp-tcs and Indictors Of access to vater and norreca disposal, housing, incoe dirtrtbutios and poverty are
llellul ep'..l.il.i.-a' Ighl.id K-1-n.  I.e....., nIlitit tlitr bcloo of -rtreie caloen.
11fANL AREA (1lalFll and esI km7                                                      1<)auletite per h11aspita1 bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - fatal surface area o. pr,istr  lend aru and Inlood ctrom                       urban, and rural) divided by their re-pective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Host recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily              available In  public and private general and specIal.ced hospital sod re-
or permanently fur crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or tc                 ahdilitatlon centers   Hospitals are establishpents permanently staffed hy
lie fallow.                                                                          at lest one physician.  Egtabblshhents providi pridnci pallycustodial
CAP I I AU,                                                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~cre  r  not Included. ua  hospting ho por,includphalthandtomial-
N1 Ff0:K CA)'liA (lh,i) -JIi  eri c     a cart  notes sat current marher prices,       cal contin  not perm nently stu ffed by a physic Ion (but pt   a medIcal *Ia
ulo11d I.y  uaor c loor thud    Wrld 11an  At lI- (1975-77 bhals);                sistant, nurue.   midwife, etc.) which offer is-patient  occiesadotino and
ni' 0, 1)17)x, u'7J 9'}77 d ii .                                                   provide a limited range  of medical facilities.
Admisainna par  hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or disoharges
idFR'i tONiiMPliil  PEi CAPITA - Annual c-nsupPtian of coercial energy                  from hospitaln diaided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, catural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
thermial electricity) in kilograms of coal oquivlent per capita.                HOUSING
Average sloe of houshehld (persons per household) - total, urban, sod rural -
POP'JLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                        A household consista of a group of individu ls who share living quartnrs
nte*l population, mid-yost (millions) - As ol July 1; if not aoaiiable,                and their main meals.  A hoarden or lodger masy or maxy noat he included ic
nvmrage of tan end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                        the bousahold far uratinriral purposes.  Statistical dofinitiont of beaur-
Irban population (Percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total papoii- bold vary.
ties;  different definitions  of urban areas may affect comptrability              Averae number of persosm per roa  - total, urban, and  rural - Average nun-
of data among countries.                                                             her of persons per room7 is all, urban, and rural occupied nnnventional
Population density                                                                     dwellings, r-speeinvmly.   Dwelling- enclde nan-permanent structures and
Pern e.  i  -  id-year poyulatioc  per square kilometer (dt hectares)                 unoccupied parte.
of total area.                                                                     Access to electricity   (percent of dwellings) -  total,  urban,  and rural -
Per sq. kin  agriculture land - Computed us above for agricultural land               Conventional dwellinge witb electricity in living quarters  s percentage
only.                                                           ol~~~~~~~~~~~~e total uerban.p, and    P rurl dellng  rms bantively.  -rgeiu
fpu tion age structure (percent) - Children (-   yearn), working-age                                                                          
(15-64 years), and retired  (65 years and acer) 0s percentages  of mid-          EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjuoted enrollment tatsS
Population growth rate (pelcent) -total, aed urban - Copund annual                   Pria ry  school - total, and famale - Total and female enrollment of all ugen
growth rates of tots) and urban aid-year populations for 1950-hi,                    at the primary level am percentages of rempectivaly primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                populations; normlly includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth cute (per thousand)  -         Annual live births per thousand of          different lengths of priary education; for coantrina with uniersal ado-
old-yeon population; cen-ynss onitanstin averages ending La 1960 and                 cation enrollment may escceed 100 perccont since *ones pupils ace below or
197) and floe-year average endlog in 1971 for mast recent estimate,                  above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 lecondary  school  - total, and female - Computed as shovel secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arichnetic averages ending in 1961 and 1970                tions requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and floe-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estinote.                       oden general vocational, or teacher training instruttone for pspils
Gross reproduction rate - Ai erage nuinS r  of daughters a woman will hear              uoually of 12 to 17 years of age; carrespondence coursen are generally
In her normal reproductive period if she enperiences  present age-               eDcludedA
ypecific fertility rates; osually five-peon aomnageu endiog in 1960,               Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1971, and 1915.                                                                      clude technical, induatrial, or other programs which operate independently
Familo planning - acceptors   annual (thousands)  - Annual number of                   on an dparteests of serondary institutions.
acooptoos of birth-control devices onder acspices of natinonal family             Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and mecondary - Total students enrolled in
F6anwing prograat                                                                    primary and secondary levels divided by numbers  of teachers in the corre-
Fa=loy planniog - asers (percent of earred women) - Percentage of                      sponding levels.
earnied waomen of child-hearing age (15-4i yasra) who use birih-contral           Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
dCrices to all married aonen in sane ago group.                                      a percentage of total adult population  aged 11 years and over.
Piop ANDS NUTRlVION                                                                 CONSUHPTIOiN
Indon offood prouction pr capit  (l97i~ll  - lodn numbe  of. pen     Pa ffengerarl(ergth.ousand"r poulation) -o Passngreras compr-isentr-  cats
capita annual production of al 7tfond7  i00sodit es x                              sebrofprating less than eight persons; axciude   mbuancem  hearse  andris  noltpcary
Per canine suoply of calories (perrenr of requirenments) - fomputed from             vehicles.
energy equioalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population' - All typee of receivers for radio
per day.  Avallable supplies comprise domestic production, imports less            broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; mscludea unlicensed
enports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies enclude anima  feed, seeds,           receivers in countries and in rearm when registretin  of radio seta was in
qusldiclms Isad in food processing, and I aonse  is distribution   Re-             effeot; data fur recent yearn may nor be comparable since most couctrien
quirueents core estimated by PAl based  an physiological needs for nor-            abolished liceneing.
ral activity and heslth considering environmesral temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivera for broadcast to general
weightu, age and see distributions of population,  and allowing if per-              public per thousand population; eicludes unlicensed TV receivors in coon-
cnt for waste e  househnld level,                                                    trios and in years when registration  of TV pets was  in effect.
Per capita supply of Vrotein (grams  per  day)  - Protein content of per            Newspaper circulation (per thousand populatinn) - Shows the average circola-
capita net snpply of food per day   Net  supply of food is defined an                tion of "daily gereral interest sewpaper".   defined as  a periodical pakl-
above.  ceqairemennt for al countries established by USDA  provide for               cation dedoted primarily to recording general news   It is considered to
e sioinuiun ailoonnom of hi groan of total ptotein per day and 20 grams              he "daily" if it appears at least four tinee a weeb.
of animal and  pulse  protein, of which 10 grams shonld he aninal protein.        Cinema annual attendanc  par capipta per year - Based a  the nuaber of tickets
These  ntandords are lower than those of y5 grams of total protein and               sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cihemas and nobily
23 gross of ainial  protein an  an  average  for the wnrld, propased by              units.
PAO in rho Third World Foad Sureny.
Per capita  protein supply iron animal and pulse - Protein asupply of food         EfMPLIYEeT
der-ive.rsaiasangassi   rm  per day.rTotal  abor foc(thousandls) -dfinoidcaby  sauceo  t.. perons   Inthdogare
Chidd (gesn )Imoraity radPte  (per  thousand)   Annual deaths  per  thous-           forces and unemp oyed  hut excLuding houa e   wives paterota  etc. ledinied
and in age group 1-4 years, ta children in thin age group.                           tione in sarious countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female laker farce sr  percentage of total labor force.
HEiALfH                                                                              Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, farestry. hunting and fiohing
Life espectancy at birth (years) - Aversago number of years of life                    as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 19h0, 1971,              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, nanufacturnlo  and
and 1975.                                                                            electricity, water and gasas* percentage of total labor forte.
Int mortali    rt sg    pere phouaandS)_  -nnual de .h of infants under             Participation rate  (percent) - total, male;df-sengle  - Total, male, and
one yeao  aePer dthonsOfand live bibi.                                              femal.   ineSSlahar oreigas percentgs;  oflue theirrespctie.he een poua ions.
Access to  safe  water (percent of poPulation) - total,  urban, and rural -             These are 1TO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Joe-sen
number  of  people (tota, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                 structure of the population, and long tine trend.
cafe water nApply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bnt               icanbeic dependency ratio - itic    o      d of population nder      and 65 and over to
uncontaminated  water such as tkat from protected horeholes,  springs,                she  labor force in age  group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary  wells)  as percentages of t.eir  respective popolationsc
In  an urban area a      public fountain or standpyot located ne0  more          INCOME liSTRlbUTION
than 200 Ieters from a house say he considered as being within rea-               Percentage  of private income (both in cash gad bind)  received by ritbent 5
ihnable accsed of  hat house. tn rOr i t areas reasonable acre-s wonld                percent,  richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest   in pe-ce-t
imply that  the  husewife or nembers of she household do not have to                 of households.
spend a disproportionare parr of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                     POVERTY TARGET GRDUPS
Access no etorera disposal (pcreent at Nepulation) -          total,  urban, and    Estimated  absolute poverty income lev Pe (         fn per capIta) - urban and rural -
rural - Nusber of people (total, urban, aned rural) served b yancreta                   Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages cf  their respectioe  populations.   p      dcreta            nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal cay include the  collection and dinptoel, nith or nithout                    affordable.
Ofsatuint, of rican  ocr  0 and waste -waer by waterh roryne syteDi                 ttisamed relative poverty  income  level (ySe  per capita) - urian and rural -
an the cue of pit priorvo and similar Ofarallatine.      t                            Relative poverty income level is that income level t   ean  than one-third
ru ofnr  ici rot   opt] asian .g h             r ther  oy yel.                        per capita personal incomye o  the country.
Pypuiation  ccc 1uicroog peroore Poyocr th.unf   -   '' dool r of                       Fercent of  population (urban  and rural) who are either "ntshlute pour' of
practicing sale and formal gradcute                                                                                             In, ftr  t1 er,rhet and "relstive poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nursen.



P.gc 4. SPoOaRg
TUNTSIA - ECONOMIC DEELOPL0MENT DATA SHEET
1986- 70          1971- 75           1977-81                             1 97 7
_______________                 ~~~~~             ~~~~~            ~~~1985  1970  1975       1977                    197               1991981
Dears  ttl1i.n-a  Constant 1977 PIS-Ie                                                                             A-erag  At-al Gto-th Rat
NACICONA AC 17135S
CcssI..eoc   F  doctoS                                      821.           1,2,81                   1,465                    1.608            1,732             1,976                         4.7                03                 7 7                              1  .
tIsn I,,,Ie, a  ITrd                            -6                -                 I49                                              5048                               At..
H""."i                          ~~~     ~    ~ ~~69507             ,3                     1,115                      ,858            1,7 81           7,042                          4 8               10 1                7.3                             107 3
lo.nt  I  siSF                           2771"                               384                     4 9                      571               525              51641                                         11.                 5.5                               33.8
-   snot   Io~~...,~~tro5    105              183               333~        3            72391                                     40471.                                                          77802.
Precooce Gap                          ~~~       ~       ~~~~~                          ~          ~~~~~                           ~~~~74  38  51  ,12 115O     64                                           .2                   .                                 84
5o9              898             1,861                     2886                   1,31             1,480             1,704                         47                  .                 8.01                              85 71
16               16.              330                      378                     408               415              402                          0.7               1                   1.9                               258
Doea   --5ct1,8                                                 176              2 78                     7 5                     27 7              300              387.4                                          1714.3                                               174
Nat tsal                           67              ~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~      ~~~~~10  274  248  769  286  31  922144169
4tp ot cottesat  trIos.  1st nillooccl  ~~~~~1,004    1,444            4,324.                   5,035                    5,841            5,88              8,500                          7.5               25.0               131
t .  $61708 OIVUtII                                                           SAt   nHPa   osat1972 ero    In Per-en                                                                                            A-e-a  A-.-Ia GUtont  Rate
Agr.oolu,.re                         2~~~      ~      ~~~~~             ~~~~~~~ ~~2.1  70.4  21.0  18518.5                                 18 .4             177-                                           10.3             -3.3
ladst                                            2782_                                542.                                             28.             26.0              2786.3                                         10.1                 9.6
Oe___e                                            551               51.7             53.8                     58.8                    9311.07           35.6              454.                         5.0               12.3                7.0
S5ER48A"IISE 511.621                                                               AIloso-13Dlas-crRtclos                                                                                                    or          Ann.ual Ot-sah Rats
Oluot 011                                           26                17                78                      60                       77                77               89                        -9.0               36.0-
Cr,,A'. tarro leon                 -               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     ~~~       ~      ~~45  359  975  434  489  560  .57.0                               11.7
EatoncO  Petrolson,               -                 ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~                                                  ~       ~~       ~ ~~~~~~~5 113  I.15  14                              25.043
Phsophate tck                                       22                24              115                       49                       55               63               183                         1.7               30.0
Onper Phosphate                        18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  17            42                       46                      48                52                75                        -1.                36,0               7.
Pt,o-rhoto   ArI                                                      -                38                       49                       52               53                77                         .                                    18.7
Ageicutota1 Prodoct                                 32                40               92                       87                       97              109               174                         4.6               18.1               17.4
Tenola2                                                                2                53                     186                     188               287               2889                                          93.0               26.5                                                                     3
Otks-  2lnftoe   od                                  1                3 8              67                     _94                      808               139              _206                        12.6               12.0               26.0                                                                   '.
Ttrs  Hands.                                       121               188              859                      939                   1,073             1,208             1,593                         9.2               35.5               A5.l
N-c Forne Sa-i-a                                    68               18497                                     593                     646               701               978                        -0.4               49.0               1.
Totl  o--t                               180              316             1,356                   1,522                    1,719             1,901            2,571                          6.2               40.0               14.5
Poodstotfe                                          34                80              225                      '16                      213              218               274                        18.7               23.0                7.8
Othe  C_eo_s  Hoods                                 42                41              218                      317                      355              385               507                        -0.5               48.8               15.9
Euergst                                1~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             ~      ~ ~~~1 39  140  190  223  217  148              3.4               60.0              -7.9
Iss=radia-  Anods                                   88               1113             411                      352                     631               63845.29537
CapItal Hnnda                                       77                79             _430                      139                     648               796              -838                        -1.1               43.0               81.4
Tota  Goods                                        252               320            1,424                    1,814                   2,070             2.708             2.607                         4.9               35.0               11.3
Ote b NF                                            68                61              141                      012                     217               227               297                        -2.2               18.2               16.3
Tota  Goods sad 815                                320               381            L,565                   2,026                    7,282             7,-435           2,904                          3.6               32.5               11 7
DoPRICES                                                                                                          1972 -198                                                                                   A--.aAs Anna  1 Aroseh Rat
Erport prcte Inden     75.5             89.7             196.9                   202.3                    209.8             218.7            248.5                          3.5               16.8                6.5~~~~~22.3209.  ~ 21_  ~ 2~43.116.  6.
1n-tptios  -ndes                                  85.8             90.7             164.1                    171.7                   183.1             191.1            215.7                          1.I               12.6                5.3
Tors   t trade  -edan                             08.0             98.9             11 8.8                  115.1                    114.6             113.2            115.2                          2.4                3.7                1.2
HIG  efao                                         70.7             9.               135.2                   147.4                    155,8             169.22           185.                           5.4                8.0                8.1
A,orgea.,     nerts1.,pr0                          0.525             0.57             0.402                    0.429                    0.429            0.42              0.0479                        -5.5-
E1.  PU.BLIC FIRANCE                                       In -SRea  of CDP at Carreat PritsF.  DETAIL 08 GOVT                                                               In Percen  of Total
1965       1978       1L9_75       1976        1977                                 SECTOR INVOESTMENT               1972-74           1975-77
CorntR -en    (Genera  Coot-.)              19.6        2 1.8      28.         28.5        30.0
Curan  Enoandit-r  (General Govt.)               15.0       11.8        21.         21          23.3                                 S tEal Se-t.ra                      18.4             17.7
C.rrentS-rpl-n                                    4.          .9         75          7.          68                                  AgrtcIlt-r                           9.6               7,6
Cetrl -oo. Inatet7.5                                     3.9        4.2         4.7         5.7                                     CoTnltaln1.                                        7.4
Total Hoot. Ittnnt21                             11.7        0.1        11.8        13.4        17.1                                 lersrcae62                                             5.1
DOthe    2/                       952,6              62.2
C.  DfTAIL 8ON CURRENT EXPENDITURE                                 Ia Percent aE Total                                                    Total                             100.0             108.0
ICEORRAL 0687.)                    ~~~~~       ~~~~~       ~~1965  1878)  1975  1976  1977
Edacstcan                           ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~25,7  32.  22.3    2.53         10PNSEN
OterSoia  Oroe                           155         16.         11.1        13.1       15.2
Agrlrolture                       5.0         5~~ ~ ~~~~             ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~.4  5.4  7.2  57            PobIto Se-tor S-eaga               59.2              50.3
OtherGo l  Servic a17.7                                     17.7        16.         165         1~7.                                 Other-   aca                       12.4              20.5
Adailnlnt -aon   and Defence                     38.1       30.1        45.8        39.09      -40.                                  Dn-stit Rarr-ea  (a-t)               6.3              7.6
100.0      100.9       180.0       100.0       188.0                                 FnteiRa FIn-ncg (art)              22.1              71.8
Tana1 Pia..a.ln8                  100.0             100.8
0.   LABORPOER(tsnaade                   1972              1977
Agrlcelta.. 3/                     527               532
Iadnnty                            344              462
SetsIce.                           406               487
lnessptnyed                       1_73              _246
1,450            1,727
1' Projectd by Bard Bank Staff
Octehr- 1900



ANNEX I
TUNISIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                                      Page 5 of 5 pages
(Amounts to millions of US dollars) 1/
Actual                                       Est.                        Projected 2/
1970      1971       1972      1973       1974       1975      1976       1977      1 *978     1979       1980      1981       1986
A. SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                              316        408        567       714      1,254     1,356      1,309      1,522     1,719      1,901     2,206      2,571      4,821
Imports (incl. NFS)                              381        442        593       782      1,242     1,565      1.669      2.026     2.287      2435      2.659      2. 904     4_967
Resource Balance                                 -65        -34        -26       -68         12      -209       -360       -504      -568       -534       -453      -333       -146
Net Interest Payments                             -50       -18        -18       -13          2         -5       -42        -57       -75       -100       -125      -147       -240
of which:  Interest on Public Loans          (-17)      (-20)     (-22)      (-27)      (-31)     (-37)      (-39)      (-53)     (-68)      (-95)    (-122)    (-147)    (-275)
Direct Investment Income                          -9        -10        -25       -35        -36       -37        -26        -21       -40        -60        -82       -93       -188
Workers' Remittances                               29        44         62         98       119        146        143       168        210       236        264        295       521
Other Net Factor Services                         -8        -39        -41       -82       -103      -116       -127       -117      -129       -142       -156      -172       -276
Current Transfers (net)                            10        16          6         4          1         -3        -1         -I         2          4          7          7         7
Balance on Current Account                       -93        -41        -42       -96         -5      -224       -412        533      -600       -597      -545       -443       -323
Private Direct Investment                          19        24         31        57         49        48         63         75        86        110        121       133        267
Official Capital Grants                           43         35         37        45         43         50        45         45        40         40         40         38        30
Public M a LT loans:
Disbursements                                  82        107        140       153        174       211        327       440        632        612       610        550        695
- Amortization                                   -45        -49       -70        -59        -59       -66        -65       -83       -109       -123       166       -193       -530
Net Disbursements                              37         58         70        94        115       145        262        357       523        489       444        357        165
Capital Transactions n.e.i. 3/                     13        24        -19        -8        -99       -62         -3         --        --         --         -_        __         __
Change in Net Reserves (increases = -)           -19       -100        -77       -92       -103        43         43         57       -50        -43        -60       -85       -140
Net Foreign Reserves                               15       115        192       284        387       344        305        248       297        340        400       485       1242
(months of imports equivalent)                  0.5        3.1       3.9        4.4        3.7       2.6        2.2        1.5       1.6        1.7       1.8        2.0        3.0
B. PUBLIC LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                                                            Actual Debt Outstanding  a aec. 31/76
IBRD                                              --         37        36         25         64        37         60        80                                         Diab. Onlv   In Pereent of Total         X
IDA                                               10         1O         10         7         --        --          5         --      EXTERNAL DEBT
Other Multilateral                                 --        --          I        --         12         11        96          8      World Bank                            127.9              b  t
Governments                                      100         84        106       138         79       289        446        125     <IDA                                    64.1               S.4
Suppliers                                          8          5          7        12          2        27         .8         54      Other Multilateral                     22.8               t.4
Financial Institutions                            21         28         28        17         12        20         19        -11      Governments                           796.1              4t.S
Total Public M + LT Loans                        139        164        188       199        169       384        634        256      Suppliers                              89.3               1.4
Financial Institutions                99.3               F-4
Bonds                                 50.4               4.0
Public Debt n.e.i.                    23.0               IA
Total-Public M4+ LT Debt           1,272.9             1lO.-
D. DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outst. + Disbursed                   524        604       680        807        954     1,071      1,273      1,630
Interest on Public Debt                        17         20        22         27        31         37         39        53
Amortization                                   45         49        70         59         59        66         65        83
Total Public Debt Service                      62         69        92         86         90       103        104        136
Burden on Export Earnings 4/ (%)
Public Debt Service                            19.6       16.7       16.2      12.0        7.2       7.6        8.0       8.9
TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.                      22.5       19.1      20.6       16.9       10.0      10.3       10.0       10.3
Average Terms of Public Debt
Int. as 7. of Prior Year DO + D                 3.3        3.8       3.6        4.o        3.8       3.9        3.6       4.2
Amort. as % Prior Year DO + D                   9.5        9.1       11.6       8.7        7.3       6.9        6.1        6.6
IBRD Debt Out. + Disbursed                        26         39         52        70         89       110        128        159
IBRD as % of Public Debt                           5.0        6.5        7.6       8.7        9.3      10.3       10.2        9.7
IBRD as 7. of Public Debt Service                  4.2        5.3        6.5       9.4       12.0       13.3      15.8       13.3
IDA Debt Out. and Disbursed                       16         21        28         57         43        55         64        69
IDA as X of Public Debt                            3.1        3.5       4.1       4.6         4.5       5.1       5.1        4.2
IDA as X of Public Debt Service                    0.1        0.2        0.3       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.5        0.5
V/ Exchange rates used for the various stocks and flows correspond to those published in IFS.
2/ Projected by World Bank Staff.                                                                                                                                                       October 1978
3/ Including errors and omissions.
4/ Including non-factor services.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                                                 Page 1 of 7
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of hpril 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                                                          US $ Million
Credit                                                                                                    Amount (Less Cancellation)
Number       Year     Borrower                                   Purpose                                  Bank        IDA       Undis.
Twenty-two Loans and Credits  ully Disbursed                                                              126.0       58.5
238          1971     Republic of Tunisia                       Population                                             4.8         2.1
270         1971      Repablic of Tunisia                       Fisheries                                              2.0        0.1
858          1972     Republic of Tunisia                       Tourism Infrastructure                     14.0                    7.0
881          1973     Socifte Nationale d'Investissement        Development Finance Co.                    14.0                    0.6
937          1973     Republic of Tunisia                       Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                          11.0                    1.8
989          1974     SONEDE                                    Water Supply                               23.0                    2.4
1029          1974     Republic of Tunisia                       Hotel Training                              5.6                    3.3
1042          1974     Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA                  Phosphate Development                     23.3                    6.2
1068          1974     Republic of Tunisia                        Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.2                    6.6
1088          1975     Republic of Tunisia                       Urban Sewerage                             28.0                   22.2
1155          1975     Republic of Tunisia                        Education                                  8.9                    8.9
1188          1976     Republic of Tunisia                       Highways                                   28.0                  27.5
1189          1976     Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)           Development Finance Co.                    20.0                    2.3
238-1        1976     Republic of Tunisia                       Population                                             4.8        1.1
1340          1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie               Agricultural Credit                        12.0                    8.6
1355          1976     SocietE Tunisienne de
J.'Electricit6 et du Gaz               Power                                      14.5                    1.0
1431          1977     Republic of Tunisia                        Irrigation Development                    42.0                   32.8
1445          1977     SONEDE                                    Water Supply                               21.0                   20.4
1504          1977     BDET                                      Development Finance Co.                    30.0                   23.9
1505          1977     Republic of Tunisia                        Small-scale Industrial Project             5.0                    5.0
1601          1978     Republic of Tunisia                       Rural Roads                                32.0                  32.0
1675 a/       1979     Republic of Tunisia                       Urban Sewerage                             26.5                  26.5
TOTAL                                                                                                497.0       70.1       242.3
Of which has been repaid                                  ..                                        49.8        4.5
Total now outstandiag                                                                                447.2       65.6
Amount Sold                     14.3
Of which has been repaid         4.3                                                                10.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                                                    437.2       65.6
Total Undisbursed                                                                                     239.0       3.3       242.3
a/ Not yet effective.             b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of April 30. 1979)
Amount in US $ Million
Year        Obligor                                            Type of Business                          Loan       Equity    Total
1962       NPK Engrais                                         Fertilizers                                 2.0       1.5         3.5
1966        $eciftd Nationale d'Investissement                 Development Finance Co.                               0.6         0.6
1969       COFIT (Tourism)                                     Development Finance Co.                     8.0       2.2        10.2
1970        Societe Nat:ionale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                                Development Finance Co.                               0.6         0.6
1973        Socifte Touristique & HSteliare REM SA.            Tourism                                     1.6       0.3         1.9
1973        SociftE d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-l4ord                                    Tourism                                    --         0.0         0.0
1975        Soctit6 d'Etude & de Developpement cle
Sousse-l4ord                                    Tourism                                     2.5       0.6         3.1
1974        Industries Chimiques du Fluor                      Chemicals                                             0.7         0.7
1978        BDET                                               Development Finance Co.                               1.3         1.3
Total Gross commitments                                                                              14.1        7.8        21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments anid sales                                                    4.7       1.6         6.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                                      9.4       6.2        15.6
Total undisbursed       ..                                     ..                                          --        0.7         0.7



- 30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
Cr. 238-1:  Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 21, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Under the Government's new decentralized and integrated health
policy, the national family planning program continues to show good progress.
The last of the 29 MCH clinics are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
Three of the four maternity hospitals are close to completion, and the fourth,
at Bizerte, is scheduled for completion late this calendar year. Bids have
been invited for the procurement of furniture and equipment. The Avicenne
training school is completed, equipped, and functioning. Because of delays
encountered in construction, the closing date of the project has been extended
to December 31, 1979.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) September 30, 1979.
All the 190 boats ordered have been constructed. About 96 percent
of the Credit funds is disbursed, the balance is committed. The remainder
of the credit will be used to finance fishing gear, and it is estimated
that project completion can be achieved by June 30, 1979. However, the
recovery of loans provided under the project to the fishermen remains a
matter of concern as the recovery rate has been low and measures to improve
the situation were taken only recently. BNT has recruited seven recovery
agents in its branches along the coast whose main task is the collection
of installments in the places where fishermen land and sell their catch.
Ln. 858:  Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan  of September 28,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1977; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project has entered its final implementation stage. About 70
percent of project works is completed. The remainder is expected to be
completed by the end of 1979/beginning of 1980. Total project cost, including
price escalation allowances, is still estimated at TD 31.5 million. Of the
total Bank financing of $24 million (including the fully disbursed Credit
329), 70 percent, or $17 million, has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Ln. 881:  Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: (original) March 31, 1978 ; (Current) June 30, 1979.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 197u; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The closing date of Loan 881 has been postponed to June, 1979 to
permit BDET to disburse the last $0.6 million in the Loan account toward a
few subprojects which encountered implementation delays. The utilization
of the loan has been generally in line with the appraisal report's projec-
tions, which foresaw the loan to be fully disbursed by March, 1977. Dis-
bursement on Loan 1189, which is also fully committed, reached $17.3 million
as of April, 1979, about 6 months ahead of the schedule projected in the
appraisal report. BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three
years in the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, finan-
cial practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increas-
ingly impcrtant role in financing industrial development, extending about
one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
The major part of the project has been implemented and most of the
objectives have been met.  The project helped establish and strengthen the
Tunis Dist:rict, the first regional planning authority in Tunisia. Work
carried out by the District in the housing and transport sectors has been
instrument:al in bringing about substantial changes in public programs and
policies, such as the adoption of measures to encourage the use of buses and
restrain the use of private cars. The project also assisted the public
transport company Societe Nationale des Transport (SNT) in renewing its
bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improving its organization and finance,
and upgrading the maintenance of its vehicles with the construction of a new
bus depot. In parallel, the city of Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with
a one-way street system, reserved bus lanes and restricted parking zones,
which contributed substantially to the improvement of bus services in Greater
Tunis.  This, combined with an increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus
maintenance has led to an increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by
about 27 percent above the level which would have been achieved in the absence
of the project. The construction of the last project component, a bus depot,
is now scheduled to start in May-June 1979.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln 989: Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1979.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: Devember
31, 1982.
Most of the civil works programmed under the third project are
now completed. The project is expected to be fully completed by December
1979, about one year behind the appraisal schedule. Preliminary financial
results as of December 31, 1978 indicate that SONEDE has met the rate of
return covenants and debt service requirements for 1978. The proportion of
cash in SONEDE's current assets of 2.4 percent in 1978 is considered low.
However, it is expected that from 1979 onwards, due to tariff increases and
other contributions, cash will gradually increase to an adequate level.  As
far as current assets are concerned, SONEDE agreed that attention would
continue to be given to inventory management in order to reduce stocks to a
more appropriate level. Good progress has been accomplished in the execution
of the works included in the Fourth Water Supply Project. Final engineering
design of the project components, with the exception of the water treatment
plant, is completed, and laying out of the project facilities and soil tests
are under way. It is now expected that, except for the treatment plant,
procurement under the project should be completed by mid-1979.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: (Original)
October 31, 1978; (Current) October 31, 1979.
Civil works for the first two centers started in July 1977 and are
now expected to be completed by July 1979. Revised cost estimates indicate a
project cost of TD 7.8 million (US$17.8 million), 45 percent higher than the
appraisal estimate. ONTT has proposed that the third center be deleted from
the project and that residual funds (US$1 million) be applied to the first two
centers. This proposal is being evaluated in the Bank.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were in-
tended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib beneficiation plant to be commis-
sioned by the end of 1979. Following the failure of the related tests to
reach satisfactory production levels a partial reformulation of the project
will be carried out with the assistance of experienced consultants whose
services will be financed by the unused portion of the Bank loan. The ser-
vices will include (i) a 9 months assistance in further testing the longwall
method, (ii) a feasibility study for open pit mining of an adjacent deposit,
and (iii) a review of the Gafsa company's five-year investment program with a
view to designing and implementing an improved cost control system. In the
next 5 to 6 years the beneficiation plant will be supplied with ore mined at a
small deposit nearby until a new and bigger deposit is ready for operations.



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation work in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the latter's contribution to the investment costs.  Some progress has
been made since May 1978 in enforcing the Agrarian Reform Legislation.
OMVVM continues to encourage large owners to improve cultivation of land
and marked progress has been reported in the distribution of medium- and
short-term. In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is developing
well and farmers have been settled on nearly 60 percent of the total area.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and
road networks continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date
December 15, 1979.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number
of factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation has occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, bids for most of the works have now been received and construction is
under way on all major components. The project is expected to be completed in
mid-1982. One of its major benefits will be release of land for development
around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has been impossible because of the
pollution of the lake waters by untreated sewage. Consultants financed under
the project have produced a land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the
land has begun by Government.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date (Original
Project: June 30, 1980 (Amended Project) March 31, 1983.
Following a change in the educational priorities in Tunisia, the
government and the Bank have recently agreed to reformulate the project. The
proposed amendment of the project was approved by the Executive Directors in
March 1979 on a no-objection basis following submission of the amendment.  The
objectives of the original project have been maintained and the modifications
relate mainly to a decrease in the number of ITM centers to be built under the
project, an increase in facilities to train teachers for ITM and an increase
in the amount of the loan allocated for technical assistance. The total cost
of the amended project is e-stimated at $11.3 million and the Bank loan is
decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, representing the full foreign
exchange cost of the amended project.



- 34 -                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway are behind
schedule although quality of works is generally satisfactory. Construction is
in progress on Lot 6; alternative bypasses of Nabeul, Hammamet and Korba are
under study by the Sous-Direction des Etudes. Construction works of Lots 5, 7
and 11 have not started yet due to lack of local financing and, in the case of
Sfax bypass, problems with expropriation. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and Planning and a satisfactory
solution is expected shortly. The draft final report of the transport coordi-
nation study is behind schedule, since the Government is still discussing some
of the initial recommendations with the consultants.
Ln 1340:  Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
About 28 percent of the amount envisaged at loan signature was dis-
bursed by the end of March. The appraisal of subloans for small farmers is
now progressing and BNT has made the first disbursements. The funds earmarked
for SONAM are fully disbursed and prospects are good for the commitment of
funds for service cooperatives to small and medium size farms. Commitments
of funds made by BNT under categories 2 and 4 are progressing satisfactorily
but due to cumbersome administrative procedures and other technical problems,
subloan applications of SCMVS under category 3 have been delayed. To overcome
these difficulties, BNT and the Ministry of Agriculture have proposed new
procedures, and BNT is expected soon to notify the Bank officially of the new
standard loan conditions.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Project has been almost completed, and is largely on schedule in
spite of some mechanical problems with three of the seven gas-turbine units.
The consultants for the price study are being selected and the study is
expected to commence shortly, after some delay.
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. However, construction of the two diversion tunnels is about
three months behind original schedule. Accelerated efforts are needed to
complete construction of both tunnels and cofferdam by the end of September
1979. Progress in implementation of the railroad substructure is also
slightly behind schedule. The land reform and consolidation program has
been developing on schedule.



- 35 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. 1504/150',: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpemrent Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a Pilot
project for assistance to SSI; Loans of S30.0 million to BDET and
of $5.0 million to the Government, of January 25, 1978; Date of
Efi-ectiveness: Octcober 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The start up of the project suffered from difficulties in finalizing
legal arrangements concerning the SSI Pilot Project component, which delayed
effectiveness by about six months. Nevertheless, commitments under the loan
to BDET have built up rapidly after effectiveness, and $5.0 million have been
disbursed as of April  1979, in line with appraisal estimates.  Under the proj-
ect, BDET is giving priority iLn its financing to projects which are located in
the least developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by
high labor intensity or export-orientation. No commitments have been made,
yet, under the SSI pilot project; however, a number of suitable projects are
in the pipeline, and commitments and disbursements should soon build up also
under the loan to the Government. The commercial banks' initial reluctance to
utilize Bank funds for SSI financing is being overcome.  Considerable progress
has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a network of
Tunisian and foreign technica'L assistance experts, specifically catering to
the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.
Ln. 1601: Rural Roads Projects; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
The loan has only recently become effective mainly because of delays
in finalizing the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and BNT. This
has, however, not held up project implemencation. Preparation of project
works in the first two of the provinces to be covered under the project is
progressing satisfactorily.



- 36 -                           ANNEX III
TUNISIA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the Project:                           27 months, from July 1976
through October 1978
(b)  Agencies responsible for Project
preparation:                                   Tunisian Ministry of Equip-
ment and FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program with assistance
from the Bank
(c)  Project identified:                            July 1976
(d)  Date of Appraisal Mission:                     October/November 1978
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:            May 25, 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 Mid-October 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be:  (i) the legal
establishment of a Fisheries Authority (FA) with resources, functions and
responsibilities for the administration of the fisheries subsector and the
appointment of its Director (paragraph 52); (ii) the necessary arrangements
to be made to provide the Authority with resources and to enable it to perform
its responsibilities under the project (paragraphs 52 and 59); (iii) the
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the Banque
Nationale de Tunisie (BNT) (paragraph 59); and (iv) the recruitment by BNT of
recovery agents for its branches located along the coast (paragraph 53).
2.        Other conditions are:
(i) the Harbor Department will be the executing agency for the
construction of the new ports and of facilities in existing
ports (paragraph 50);



- 37 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii3  the Harbor Department prior to award of the contract for
the first lot of ports will employ an engineering con-
sultant firm whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the
Bank (paragraph 50);
(iii) the Government, not later than December 31, 1982, will
introduce a system of port fees based upon a study to
be undertaken in 1980 (paragraph 61); and
(iv)  shore facilities will be leased by the Fisheries Authority
to fishermen's cooperatives and organizations, individuals
or companies, and operated on a commercial basis (para-
graph 61).






IBRD 14165
I   -o ! re   V  1$G7  1 .                                            MARCH 1979
-t_  /5        1ite         __,14:lnc//  !derra,7eais)   S a
C Ne     rsra                                                         7
Cp,gr                                                 G7e l M            ee    apon
0    v Nefof                                                    ( G<.X// tif~~~~~~~~~~~SiiOov 4/  as ^  Tt Drek
Gull      Tun is7
iod                          TABAARSA                                                               BouS       a/          .IB1    A
.   TUN          otS                /KEL7A
_, K                                                                 ,,  . J . : .,      / 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H er1l                                             n 
4.Be"n  Kh  /r
( . FIA
ALGERIA             IOI
1                                            -                      v          f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lo Chobbrz
1                                                .. .aeI    E                                                        N   'et
seamS~~~~~~~
\~~~~                                                                          ~ U  Ni I  SFA I AeKEi
0      ,-'    ~SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT                                                                 ;.---
f'                  \;' ~~~~~MaJjor fishery hrirbors                            khirrK hedt.*
?                      4  ~~~~~~~~~Cocistcul f shery harbors and lannding sites/\
_/~~~~~~~[egl Si tes se leFcted for development ,tG/ W sJe 
(                                                                          Gull olLagonamGll'   nefG.h.
f                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
f sO ~~~~~~~~~~~Depth contours in meters  
i                                  ~~~~~~~~~~Provincial boundaries                                             c Su       k       '\-
34                           -   -  ~~~~~~~~Internrutional boundaries                                                       '  zDJERBA ILANsD
J   5                                                .   .               \     D      3          H  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El K. ntwaO    50
36                                                                                                                 OUE   ONAdrTIR 0 ITAI,  GRS OTLRr  (.1!ZARZ15
'MALTA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~K~MNI
AIGERSA   s  r   ?       ;-   Eh                                             I                              ", ,     .
AtGERIA  1~~~~            Th~~ d .. --v-  -d-d th4~i9                                                      -
b-d.,- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~tyt
7                                                                                                        4. En Noet~~d.-t-ly
\,                   'S  ~~~~~ ~~~~ARA$B  Wd  B-k -p'atdits`fhilaV~Wfths Jny                                                             (-,
.J )YA                                                .. I.dit -  ...1 Zrymrm         20       40       6    n 80         AOoasL
_~~~~~~~~~~~~qP t. ..... -  -                                                                              Kilometers                                     3



