Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FIE
FILE COPy"Y
Report No. 2436a-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
TlJNISIA
June 6, 1979
EMENA Projects Department
Agriculture Division II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Currency Unit                           =             Tunisian Dinar (D)
D 0.4                                   =             US$1.00
D 1.00                                  =             US$2.50
D 1,000,000                             -             US$2,500,000
US$1,000,000                            -             D 400,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 t                                     =             1,000 kg
2,205 lb
1 km                                    =             0.621 mi
1 km2                                   =             0.386 sq mi
Im                                      =             3.281 ft
1 Im2                                                10.75  sq ft
1 m3                                    =            35.315 cu ft
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BNT       Banque Nationale de Tunisie - National Bank of Tunisia
CLCM      Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel - Mutual Credit Bank
DSP       Direction des Services des Peches - Directorate of Fisheries
FAO-CP    Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
FOSDA     Fonds Special  de Developpement Agricole - Special Fund  for
Agricultural Development
FOSEP     Fonds Special  d'En.couragement a la Peche - Special Fund for
Fisheries Development
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
INSTOP    Institut Scientifique et Technique d'Oceanographi et de
P'eche - Institute c,f Science and Technology for Oceanography
and Fisheries
ONP       Office National des Peches - National Office of Fisheries
MSY       Maximum Sustainable Yield
HARBOR DEPARTMENT
Department of Harbors and Aerial Bases in the Ministry of
Equipment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE FISHERIES
SUBSECTOR .......................................                    1
A.    The Agricultural Sector ......................                   1
B.    The Fisheries Subsector ......................                   2
C.    Bank involvement in the Subsector ....           ........       10
D.    The Project Area .............................                  13
II.    THE PROJECT .......................................                   14
A.    Project Preparation and Location ....           .........       14
B.   Project Objectives ...........................                   14
C.   Project Description ..........................                   15
D.   Cost Estimates  ...............................                  20
E.    Financing ....................................                  22
F.    Procurement ..................................                  24
G.   Disbursements  ................................                  26
H.    Project Accounts and Audits ....            ..............      28
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES                         28
A.    Borrower and Project Execution ....           ...........       28
B.    Implementation Schedule ......................                  32
C.   Operation and Maintenance ....................                   32
D.    Cost Recovery ................................                  33
E.   Monitoring and Reporting .....................                   34
IV.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND DEMAND ....             ..............      34
A.    Production Parameters of the Project .........                  34
B.   Total Production .............................                   37
C.   Marketing ....................................                   37
D.   Domestic and Export Demand ...................                   39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October/
November 1978, consisting of Mr. J. Duester and Miss M. Varkie (Bank), and
Messrs. D.R.P. Farleigh and N. Quere (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................................                40
A.    Fish Prices and Market Assumptions  ....          .........    40
B.    Financial Analysis .............................               41
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .........                 41
A.    Project Benefits ...............................               41
B.   Economic Analysis ..............................                43
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS ......... ........                45
ANNEXES
1.   Table 1:  Total Project Cost and Schedule of Expenditure                    47
Table 2:  Disbursement Schedule ..........................                  50
Chart 1:  Organization Chart of Fisheries Authority ......                  51
Chart 2:  Project Implementation Schedule ....             ............    52
2.    Incremental Fish Production Under the Project  ....           ........     53
3.   Table 1:  Economic Prices of Fish ........................                  54
Table 2:  Economic Rate of Return ........................                 55
Table 3:  Economic Rate of Return Analysis Summary .......                  56
4.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .............................................                  57
MAPs 
Maps IBRD Nos. 14165, 14166, 14167, 14168, 14169, 14170



I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE FISHERIES SUBSECTOR
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      Tunisia covers an area of 164,000 km2 and has a coastline of about
1,300 km. In 1977, the population was about 5.9 million, and the average
annual population growth rate during 1966-1975 was 2.3x.
1.02      The country is rather poorly endowed with an agricultural resource
base. Much of the land is arid or semi-arid, with most of the agricultural
activity concentrated along the coast and in a few oases. A little over
one-third of Tunisia's total land area, or about 5.3 million ha, is classified
as cultivable. The main crops are wheat and olives. These crops are subject
to sharp year-to-year output fluctuations, because of irregular rainfall in
the case of wheat and changes in the natural output cycle for olives. Agri-
culture plays an important role within the Tunisian economy. In 1977, agri-
culture, including fisheries, accounted for 16% of gross domestic product
(GDP), employed 35% of the total labor force and yielded 16% of total exports.
Over the period 1970-1977, GDP in the agricultural sector including fisheries
grew at a compound rate of 6.8% p.a. in real terms. During the Fourth Devel-
opment Plan (1973-1976) agricultural exports were nearly equal to food imports
(on average D 74 million annually exported compared to D 76 million imported).
Fluctuations in agricultural output continue to have a major impact on the
country's economic performance. During 1977 there was a decline in agricul-
tural production by 9.1% from the 1976 level, primarily due to bad weather
conditions. This factor, in particular, was responsible for the comparatively
weak overall growth in GDP in 1977, which declined from 7.5% in 1976 to 2.8%
in 1977.
1.03      To achieve the Government's main development objective in agriculture,
which is a balanced commodity trade in foodstuffs by 1981, total agricultural
output would have to grow at a rate of about 7% p.a. However, the Bank's
revised estimates of agricultural growth 1/ indicate that over the Fifth Plan
Period (1977-1981), the growth rate will only be 3.3% p.a. This is due to a
growth rate of -1.2% p.a. in 1977 and 1978 when imports grew by 10% p.a.
instead of 7.7% p.a. as planned and exports by only 4.9% p.a. instead of 9.9%
p.a. Achievement of the projected growth rate would still depend on favorable
weather conditions, but greater availability of credit, implementation of land
reform and introduction of conducive price policies would contribute to an
improvement in the growth rate.
1/ Tunisia: Economic Position and Prospects Country Economic Memorandum
IBRD November 1978.



-2-
B. The Fisheries Subsector=
Production
1.04      In 1977, fisheries contributed to about 6% of GDP in the agricul-
tural sector.  During the period 1970-1977 the growth rate of GDP in the
fisheries subsector alone was higher than that in the agricultural sector,
excluding fisheries (8.8% p.a. as compared with 6.7% p.a.). In terms of
output, over the same period fish production grew from 27,800 t to 54,000 t,
an increase of almost 9.9% p.a. However, in spite of the production increases,
the present catch level falls far short of satisfying the potential demand for
fish and represents a per capita consumption of only 7 kg per year in Tunisia
compared with a consumption of 13 kg in Italy, 15 kg in France, and 39 kg in
Spain. Consequently, the Fifth Plan aims to increase per capita consumption,
to 9 kg in 1981 by raising fish production to 88,000 t. To achieve this
target, the Plan foresees investments of D 46 M (US$115 M) for equipment,
research and training, and development of harbor and related facilities.
Although this amount represents only 9% of total agricultural investments
during the Fifth Plan, the average annual investment for fisheries during
1977-1981 is about twice that planned for the Fourth Plan (1973-1976).
1.05      A breakdown of the 1977 fish production of 54,000 t shows that
coastal fishing was the most important category with a catch of 23,800 t.
Lamparo fishing 1/ accounted for 15,400 t and trawler fishing for 10,600 t.
The remaining 4,200 t were attributable to lagoon fishing, tuna fishing,
fishing for crustaceans and mollusks, sponge and coral fishing. In 1977,
fish exports represented 7% of total agricultural exports as compared to 3%
in 1970. The main species exported have been shrimp, octopus and lobster.
Most of the catch is consumed fresh on the domestic market with the remainder,
about 15,000 t in 1977, being processed by canning plants for both domestic
and export markets.
Fish Resources and Existing Facilities
1.06      Pelagic 2/ fish resources in Tunisian waters have been estimated in
1972-1974 to be 580,000 t with a maximurm sustainable yield (MSY) of 150,000 t.
About 16,500 t, equivalent to 11% of this MSY were exploited in 1977. The
objective of the Fifth Plan is to bring production up to 33,000 t which would
mean exploitation of 22% of MSY. This is a very ambitious target given the
fact that lamparo fishing and tuna fishing are capital intensive operations
and require well-trained crews. Fishing for pelagic species is highly competi-
tive and along the northern coast of the country is a continuous source of
dispute between fishermen from neighboring countries.
1/ Lamparo fishing involves the use of lights to attract fish, which are then
caught in seining operations by lamparo fishing units consisting of a
carrier boat and two or three small boats.
2/ Pelagic fish live in open waters and frequently migrate, e.g. tuna,
-   mackerels, sardines, anchovies.



- 3 -
1.07      Demersal 1/ fish resources have never been properly assessed.
Appropriate stock assessment studies are urgently needed to direct future
Government policies and to avoid possible over exploitation, although there
are at present no signs of overfishing in any of the Tunisian fish ports.
Stocks and MSY estimates of demersaL fish caught by artisanal coastal fisheries
are more difficult to make than those for trawler fishing because of the
selective fishing methods used. Only certain fish sizes are caught which are
not representative of the total fish population. The MSY estimates that were
made vary between 50,000 t and 80,000 t. The 1977 production of 34,400 t
(23,800 t coastal and 10,600 t trawler fishing) therefore leaves ample scope
for increases. This is especially true since there are still rich unexploited
fishing grounds beyond the three nautical miles reserved for coastal fisheries
in the northern part of the coast and beyond the depth of 50 m reserved for
coastal fishing in the southern part. Beyond these limits all other types of
fishing, including trawlers are perrmitted.
1.08      At present about 45 fishery harbors including small shelters are
scattered along the Tunisian coast. Major ports, such as Tabarka, Bizerte,
La Goulette and Sousse in the northern half, and Mahdia, La Chebba, Sfax, Gabes
and Zarzis in the southern half (Mao No. 14165), are most]Ly used by trawlers
and lamparo units.  They are all equipped with basic facilities including
access roads, water and electricity supply. However, the majority of landing
sites used by coastal fisheries excLusively like Ghar El Melh, Monastir,
Saiada, Teboulba, Salakta, La Skhira and Houmi: Souk on Djerba Island is not
wiell equipped and very often does not provide even a basic shelter for boats.
1.09      The total continental sheLf area along the Tunisian coast down to
-200 m depth covers approximately 77,000 km2. Of this about 17,500 km2 are
reserved for coastal fisheries in accordance with the limits given in para.
1.07. 7,000 km2 are in the northern zone and 10,500 km2 from Mahdia to the
south. The northern zone is characiterized by a narrow conitinental shelf, a
rocky coast and small tidal ranges, and the southern zone by gently sloping
foreshores resulting in a wide continental shelf and large tidal ranges of up
to 2 m at Gabes. The distribution of area exploitable for coastal fishing
activities in each half of the coastline is about 40% in the north and 60%
in the south, while actual production is only 15% and 85% of the total produc-
tion in the north and in the south zones respectively. This distortion
results from lesser fishing activity in the north, due to a lack of adequate
port facilities and adequate boats, which would be able to withstand the
rougher sea conditions especially in wintertime. Construction of small ports
for coastal fishing is further constrained by difficult topographical conditions
in the north between Tabarka and Bizerte. Fully protected ports in deep
waters are costly and very often not economically justified. The proposed
Project is based on a careful investigation of all the possibilities and has
found that only the following sites could be developed economically. They are
Sidi Daoud in the Gulf of Tunis, and Beni Khiar and Hergla in the Gulf of
Hammamet. In the southern part of the coast line the most restraining factor
1/ Demersal fish are bottom water fish, e.g. mullets, perches, bass, breams.



- 4 -
is the lack of port infrastructure in sufficient water depth to allow fishing
activities at all tidal ranges. At present the rowing and sailing boats and
the light motor boats used can only go out fishing at high tide. The few
existing fishing ports are almost totally lacking in shore facilities such as
ice-making plants, cold stores, and boat repair facilities, resulting in poor
fish quality and down time for motorboats.
1.10      To tap the substantially unexploited fish resources of the coastal
areas, Government needs to construct new ports and further equip existing
ones, especially in the south. Fishing boats adapted to rough sea conditions
in the north also need to be constructed.
Fishing Population
1.11      It is difficult to determine the exact number of fishermen in
Tunisia. Estimates vary from 18,000 to 22,500. Assuming that about 12 crew
members operate each trawler, 3 of them each coastal boat and about 14 each
lamparo fishing unit, the number of fishermen involved in coastal fishing
would be 16,600 and the total number 22,500. However, taking into account the
fact that the fishermen owning rowing or sailing boats could also be involved
in other fishing activities in certain times of the year (lamparo, trawling),
a more realistic figure for coastal fishing would be about 12,000.
1.12      In the past, rural migration has affected the fisheries subsector
in Tunisia, especially young people, who have found better opportunities in
the tourist industry which has flourished along the coast between Hammamet
and Sousse, on Djerba Island and to a lesser extent on the Kerkennah Islands.
However, since the growth of the tourist industry has now slowed down, these
opportunities are getting more scarce and with the modernization of the
fishing industry, and the high demand for fish, it is expected that the
subsector will be attracting more and more labor which would be supplied
mainly from the agriculture sector where unemployment and underemployment
is high. Fisheries training schools and vocational training centers are
available to train young people as crew members for coastal fishing boats.
1.13      Training.  The responsibilities for training fishermen and craftsmen
of related industries are shared between the Directorate of Fisheries within
the Ministry of Agriculture (DSP), which operates three training schools and
five vocational training centers and the Rural Development Program under the
Ministry of Planning, which operates another six vocational training centers.
In 1977, a total number of 950 students were enlisted in these training schools
and centers. Training schools offer a two-year course and the annual number
of students awarded diplomas is about 45 skippers, 25 mechanics and 20 marine
carpenters. In 1977, the training centers gave one-year courses to 463
participants of which 301 were trained as fishermen and 107 as engine operators.
There has been little coordination between the Ministries of Agriculture and
Planning regarding training facilities and programs. Training standards are
not uniform and there are long delays in awarding diplomas and certificates as
this responsibility lies with yet another Ministry, namely the Merchant Marine
Department under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Training is



free and includes full board. The budgetary allocations for training are
usually sufficient to cover the most urgent needs of the cost of boarding the
students and teachers' salaries. However, training equipment and demonstra-
tion material are not available in sufficient quantities.
1.14      The majority of students attending the schools come from rural
areas, mainly landless farmers. Fishermen do not send their children to
training schools or training centers beause they prefer to train them them-
selves. However a great many of the fishermen already in the profession need
some on-thle-job training to bring their knowledge of fishing techniques,
boat opeiition and boat maintenance up-to-date. This kind of training is not
availabli.
1.15      Research.  Basic fisheries research is carried out by INSTOP (Institut
Scientif,que et Technique d'Oceanographie et de Peche), which is supervised by
DSP. Iii.TOP has been involved in exploratory trawling and shrimp research and
has undt7taken pollution studies, but to date no research has been done on the
availab>e resources of demersal fish (para 1.07). This is because of lack of
priorit- planning and coordination between DSP and INSTOP.
Fishing i'leet and Fishing Techniques
1.16      The b,ggest quantity of fish is landed by the coastal fishing fleet,
which iL:ludes rowing, sailing and motorboats of up to 13 m overall length.
Coastal lishing activity is found everywhere along the Tunisian coast with
boats m( ,red in existing ports, on beaches and in river mouths. It represents
the tra:i,tional sector of Tunisian fisheries and in 1977 accounted for about
44% of ,)tal cacch.
1.17      Lamparo fishing is used to catch pelagic species, mainly sardines,
anchovi s, mackerels and horse mackerels. The main fishing ports for lamparo
fishing are Mahdia, La Chebba and Sfax, where about 195 seining units are
station S. This type of fishing is a seasonal operation which normally lasts
from Ap:il to November. In off-season, some of the smaller boats involved in
lamparc fishing switch to coastal fishing. In 1977 lamparo fishing accounted
for abc,t 29% of total catch.  The larger pelagic species, mainly tuna, are
caught in traps (madragues) which are set up perpendicularly to the coast line
in places whereX tuna migrates in May and June.
1.18      Trawlers catch demersal species on the continental shelf in depths
exceeding 50 m in the sourthern zone and in distances greater than 3 nautical
miles from the coast in the northern zone. About 210 trawlers of 20 to 25 m
length operate along the Tunisian coast. The species caught are white and
grey mullets, whiting, pandoras, breams and other demersal species.  Shrimp
catches are confined to the Gulf of Gabes where trawlers are also allowed.
1.19      The number of existing crafts used for coastal fishing was estimated
to be about 5,000 in 1977, less thain four per km of coastline. Only about
1,400 are motorboats. The other 3,600 boats are sailing and rowing boats with
a very limited operating radius. Normally the motorboats are well protected
against waves arriving at the bow but less protected against waves at the



-6-
stern. They frequently transport the catch on deck together with the entire
fishing gear which results in quality deterioration even before the catch is
landed. Rowing boats and most of the sailing boats do not have decks which
make them very vulnerable to wave action. Motorboats have decks but do not
provide any shelter to the fishermen and appear to have insufficient height in
free board and bulwark.
1.20      The most commonly found motorboats are those of the 7 to 8 m overall
length (with engines of 15 to 20 hp), which are constructed in local shipyards
according to the individual requests of the boat owners. Although large
numbers of this type of boat are used all along the Tunisian coast, they are
generally considered to be too small for the more remote fishing grounds. The
daily catch rate is low, estimated to be 35 kg, with an average of 150 fishing
days per year, which brings production to about 5 t of fish per year.
1.21      Under the First Fisheries Project a new type of boat of 11.25 m
overall length was developed of which 190 were sold. Despite the initial
difficulties with the boat engine (para. 1.35), it is now well accepted by
fishermen. Its principal dimensions are as follows: length overall 11.25 m,
length at water line 9.05 m, deck width 3.35 m, draft 0.86 m, displacement
7.5 t. Recorded catches of these boats vary between 50 and 70 kg per fishing
day, but it is estimated that production, including unrecorded catch con-
sisting of own consumption and sales outside recording points, reaches at
least 90 kg per fishing day.
1.22      Fishing Techniques.  Fishing techniques used in coastal fisheries
include both passive and active fish-ing gear. The floating gill net is most
frequently used in catching demersal fish but the trammel net which consists
of a triple netwall--two wide meshed outerwalls surrounding a rather loose
interior net--is also used. Another type of fishing gear presently used is
the long line, which has short and usually thinner branch lines carrying hooks
at intervals. Motorboats of 11.25 m overall length are usually equipped with
15 trammel nets of 150 m length each, i.e. 2,250 m of trammel net and three
long lines of 250 m each with 750 hooks. Due to the lack of training, fisher-
men have not learnt to use the available techniques efficiently.
1.23      Boat Construction Capacity.  There is considerable capacity for
construction of wooden boat hulls in Tunisian shipyards, which are well distri-
buted along the coast. The largest boat builder is ONP with four shipyards
at Bizerte, Sfax, Sousse and La Chebba.  The shipyards at Bizerte, Sfax, and
Sousse have a total annual capacity of 80-95 boats of 11.25 m length per year.
The shipyard at La Chebba does only repair work. The capacity of privately
owned shipyards equals that of ONP. The two biggest of these are in Sousse
(Societe de Construction Navale) with a capacity of 35-40 hulls, and in Sfax
(Salim) with a capacity of 20-25 hulls.
1.24      Quality of construction varies, but with proper supervision, it is
considered good. Some shipyards prepare better designs than others and obtain
superior results in the assembly of main components and the quality of ,



planking. The wood used for the hull ribs is eucalyptus, which is found in
Tunisia. The most important components and planking are made of iroko, which
is imported from Cameroon, Gabon, Ivory Coast and Nigeria. It is a rather
smooth wood, which can be worked well and in which nails and bolts hold firm.
However, it has little resistance to shock and in general its characteristics
are inferior to those of oak or teak. Eucalyptus, used for the ribs, is
of lower quality than iroko; it is brittle, but because of the small size of
the boats constructed, it is acceptable.
1.25      An experiment with the construction of ferro-cement boats has been
under way for several years under the direction of FAO. Several 11.25 m and
12 m vessels have been built and a 17 m boat is under construction. However,
it would not be realistic to try and promote a new type of boat and a new
material at the same time in any country. Fishermen often tend to confuse the
problems and can reject a good "design" because of poor workmanship; on the
ot.ler hand, they tend to accept a mediocre "design" with well used material.
Therefore, the FAO experiment, which consists in particular of making proto-
tvpes of several types of boats, could be of interest only for the 11.25 m
boats in the context of the present Project. The dimensions of the 11.25 m
ferro-cement boat are close to those of the wooden boat and its conception is
completely identical.  If tests witlh the prototypes turn out to be successful
and if it is well accepte!d by the fishermen, the boat would be built in
serles. Investment costs are estimated to be similar to those of wooden
boats.
Fin,incing of Investments in the Subsector.
1.26      Fisheries Credit (FOSEP and IDA).  The Tunisian Government has
pursaed the objective of promoting fisheries investments by making available
conc.~ssionary credit and subsidies to investers since 1968 through a special
Gove-nment fund (Fonds Special d'Encouragement a la Peche - FOSEP) administered
by BiUT. As of November 1978 FOSEP funds committed by BNT amounted to D 13.2
mill on (US$33 million) in loans and D 2.6 million (US$6.5 million) in sub-
sidi.s. In addition BNT had at the same date committed D 0.9 million (US$2.0
million) in IDA funds, (Credit 270 TUN) plus D 0.16 million (US$0.4 million)
in r lated subsidies. BNT does not assume any default risk for FOSEP loans,
but 710% under the IDA Credit Agreement. For subloan applications DSP makes
the !echnical evaluation of applicants and a committee chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture gives the final approval. BNT usually assumes the privilege of
final approval for IDA subloans, because of the risk involved.
1.27      As Government feels that fisheries investments are particularly
needed to ensure development of important national resources and maintain the
livelihood of the rural population, which have very limited employment oppor-
tunities, these investments are subsidized in Tunisia. At present, the
Government encourages the mobilization of domestic resources by providing
subsidies of up to 40% for investments in agriculture and 15% for indivudual
investments in fisheries, especially for boat purchases whose costs have
doubled in the last four years. FOSEP regulations envisage 20% subsidy for
investments by production cooperatives. Government subsidy for the purchase



- 8 -
of motorized boats and fishing equipment applies to investments financed by
both FOSEP and IDA subloans. The loan amount is 75% of investment costs at
6% annual interest. The fishermen are expected to finance the remaining 10%
themselves. Up to 1977, it was common practice for fishermen to obtain an
additional loan from the Rural Development Program (a Government fund estab-
lished in 1973 to finance rural development projects), so that they often did
not make any actual contribution to the boat acquisition. This practice was
stopped in 1977 and the Program now extends only short-term credit to fishermen.
1.28      FOSEP legislation was promulgated in 1969/70 and revised in 1972 and
in 1977. The last revision was undertaken with the FOSDA legislation govern-
ing agricultural funds. Since the introduction of the new legislation,
after a long dialogue between Government and the Bank, a uniform interest rate
of 6% and uniform lending conditions for FOSDA, FOSEP and Bank financed loans
in agricultural Projects have been applied. In the FOSEP ministerial decision
of 1977 (Arrete) new maximum investment amounts to be considered for the
determination of subloan amounts and subsidies for boats not exceeding 11 m
overall length were set at D 10,000 (US$25,000) and for boats of 12 m to 16 m
overall length at D 15,000 (US$37,500). These amounts are now too small and
an upward revision would be needed, if investments in boats under the Project
will also be governed by FOSEP. Under the proposed Project the present
ceilings, if applied, would have an effect on the subsidies, which as a result
of price increases would become less than 15% of the total investment costs.
Fishermen's own contributions and BNT lending would have to cover the price
increases.
Oranizational and Institutional Constraints of the Subsector
1.29      There are several ministries and agencies involved in the administra-
tioni of the fisheries subsector; the most important being the Directorate of
Fislheries (Direction des Peches - DSP) in the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Department of Harbors and Aerial Bases in the Ministry of Equipment (Harbor
Department), the Merchant Marine Department under the Ministry of Transport
and Communications, the Rural Development Program under the Ministry of
Planining, and the Office National des Peches (ONP). (Details of ONP are in
the Project File). The responsibilities of these various agencies are widely
overLapping and not clearly defined. Each of these agencies is concerned in
achieving their own short-term goals rather than the nationally perceived
needs of the subsector. The lack of coordination and cooperation between
them has led to difficulties in agreeing on action to be taken in the sub-
sector and has therefore resulted in contradictory policy making decisions.
All these factors have led to a weak and inefficient administration of the
subsector. Because of these institutional weaknesses, project preparation
and implementation have, more than in other sectors, encountered difficulties,
which although eventually resolved, have cost the Government time and money
(paras. 1.35-1.40 and 2.01).
1.30      DSP is normally entrusted with formulation of fishing policies,
(in the absence of a functioning Superior Fisheries Council), enforcement of
fishing regulations, issuance of fishing permits and export licenses, collec-
tion of production data and preparation of statistics, training, fisheries



research and development, and administration of the coastal fishing fleet.
DSP has 8 regional and 11 local offices, (Arrondissement des Peches) with a
total staff of about 110, i.e. about 10 staff per 100 km of coast, most of
them concentrated in the important fishery centers. DSP has been plagued by
lack of budgetary allocations and hence there has been a chronical shortage
and frequent exchange of personnel which has had a detrimental effect on the
whole administration of the subsector. This has resulted in inefficient
extension work, unreliable fishery statistics, lack of proper research and
very often the abandonment of regulatory and training functions to parastatal
organizations such as ONP.  These weaknesses have often led to conflict of
interest because the agencies involved are themselves fishing operators (ONP)
and do not have the legal status to carry out the tasks assigned to them.
1.31      The Harbor Department is responsible for the construction and main-
tenance of all port facilities. It also manages a number of fish ports
and shore facilities, a task which it shares with ONP and the municipalities.
The harbor master is responsible for the entire supervision of the port
activities and is under the jurisdiction of the Harbor Department. At
present the actual operation of the port and shore facilities is run by dif-
ferent agencies in each port. Responsibilities are not clearly defined and
because of the lack of communication between agencies there are difficulties
in identifying problems, ensuring proper maintenance and planning for new
construction.
1.32      The Merchant Marine Department is responsible for navigational
security services, personnel management of seamen and fishermen, the fishing
fleet and fishing facilities. It approves boat designs, supervises construc-
tion and delivers certificates of inspection. While it approves the designs
for each boat type it hardly carries out any supervision during boat construc-
tion, leaving the shipyards and especially those of ONP at liberty to intro-
duce modifications in the design in accordance with the wishes of individual
fishermen. This department is more involved with the merchant marine and is
ill equipped to supervise and direct fishing activities.
Banque Nationale de Tunisie - BNT
1.33      BNT is the only source of institutional credit to the fisheries
subsector. It was established by Government's initiative in 1959 to provide
agricultural credit. It also performs all normal banking and financial
operations. Fisheries lending is centralized in BNT's headquarters, its
branch offices along the coast are only involved in the initial creditworthi-
ness examination of loan applicants. Government funds for fisheries (FOSEP)
and the IDA financed loans (para 1.26) are channelled through BNT to the
fishermen (paras.1.38-1.40).



- 10 -
Conclusion
1.34      Both physical and institutional constraints are presently hindering
development in the fisheries subsector in Tunisia. A comprehensive development
strategy for coastal fisheries would need to include the following actions:
(a)  development of marine and shore facilities to harbor fishing
fleets, handle fishermen's production and service their fleets.
This would mean adding new fishing ports and modernizing existing
ones wherever it is technically and economically feasible.
Modernizing existing ports would involve extending existing
facilities to allow for operations at all times and equipping
the ports with additional shore facilities;
(b)  provision of adequate equipment mainly boats and fishing gear.
This would include design of a new type of boat, especially for
the northern coast, capable of sustaining rough weather condi-
tions and modernization of the largely outdated fleet along the
coast;
(c) establishment of a central Fisheries Authority with well defined
responsibilities, budget and staff to:
(i) make clear policy decisions on the subsector;
(ii) initiate and plan a fisheries development strategy, including
promotion of public and private investments;
(iii) implement the regulatory functions in progress in the subsector;
(iv) promote training and research; and
(v) administer the country's fisheries resources and Government's
fisheries investments along the coast.
C. Bank Involvement in the Subsector
1.35      In 1971, IDA made available an amount of US$2 million to the Tunisian
Government under a Credit Agreement (Credit 270-TUN) mainly to finance the
procurement of about 335 boats with inboard engines and spare parts. The
number of boats was later reduced to 190, due to increases in investment costs.
A new boat design developed after Credit signature was found to be generally
unacceptable by the fishermen and had to be altered. An existing boat design
with slight modifications was finally accepted. Procurement difficulties
arose due to the Bank's insistence on complying with agreed ICB procedures and
on awarding the engine contract to the lowest evaluated bidder, whereas DSP
would have preferred an award to a firm selling locally assembled engines.
The stated preference of the authorities was based on the fact that the
locally assembled engines were already well accepted by the fishermen in
Tunisia, while the marine version of the lowest evaluated bidder's engine was



- .11 -
not known to them. This engine was more sophisticated and also had a better
technical performance than the locally assembled engine. DSP eventually
accepted the Bank's views, but because of accumulated delays in the boat
design and engine procurement, the first boats were delivered to fishermen
only at the end of 1974 more than three years after Credit signature.
1.36      The new boatowners were not used to the electrical starting system
attached to the engine which at the beginning led to quite a number of break-
downs, caused by mishandling or dead batteries. Moreover, insufficient
training was given to fishermen and service facilities, especially for the
engine, were not available. The engine supplier's general agent in Tunis did
not fulfill the obligations under the contract to establish sub-agencies in
all ports. In the towns where sub-agencies were established, the agents were
reluctant to incur the high costs of storing spare parts for the boat engines
as the turnover was slow. This resulted in boats remaining unrepaired for
weeks. It was only in 1977 that DSP created mobile workshops which have
helped fishermen substantially.
1.37      As a result of these difficulties, there was a long delay in Project
implementation, because initial boat sales were sluggish and picked up only
after DSP had introduced a mobile repair unit which made periodic visits to
ports and was also available on call to do repairs free of charge. The
closing date of the Credit has been postponed to December 31, 1979. The
last boats are likely to be sold by June 1979 and the remaining amount of
US$152,000, undisbursed under the Credit, will be used to make supplementary
loans for fishing gear and to pay the outstanding bills for boat construction
(US$66,600).
Subloan Conditions and Loan Recovery
1.38      Under the First Fisheries Project, the Tunisian Government on-lent
the Project funds under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to BNT at an interest rate
of 3%. BNT assumed 50% of the risk on IDA funds only. Other funds, namely
FOSEP funds, were managed by BNT on behalf of Government against an annual
commission of 3% but with no risk to BNT. BNT then made subloans to individual
fishermen at 6% with a duration of eight years, giving BNT an interest rate
spread of 3% to cover its administrative costs and the default risk. All
subloans to fishermen (FOSEP and IDA financed) were made centrally at head-
quarters upon the recommendation of DSP. BNT's branch personnel was involved
in fisheries loans only at the application stage when the branches had to give
their opinion on the applicant's creditworthiness. Loan administration was
carried out centrally from headquarters, which led to the situation where
branch personnel normally had no direct: contact with fishermen after the ini-
tial creditworthiness evaluation. This differs from the lending practices
in agriculture, where farmers receive annual seasonal credits from the bran-
ches and remain in constant contact with branch personnel.
1.39      The repayment performance under subloan agreements between BNT and
fishermen has been low due to several reasons:



- 12 -
(i) A large percentage of fishermen have received funds from the
Rural Development Program to finance the required 10% advance
payment for the acquisition of boats. Most of the fishermen have
regarded this as a grant rather than a loan, and have gradually
begun to regard BNT loans as grants also. In effect, fishermen
have contributed nothing towards the acquisition of their boats.
They have therefore been less inclined to take good care of their
boats and have not even been too concerned about losing their
boats in legal proceedings after loan default.
(ii)  Fishermen have used various excuses to avoid paying their debts.
The most common complaint has been that the boat has not been
operating due to technical defects and therefore, there has been
no income available to repay the loan. Initially neither DSP nor
BNT had sufficient personnel to verify the situation.
(iii)  The total lack of cooperation between BNT and DSP in attempting
to recover loan repayments has aggravated the situation. DSP is
reluctant to become involved in loan collection, claiming that this
is BNT's role, and BNT maintains that it cannot undertake effective
loan supervision without the assistance of DSP.
(iv)  Credit supervision and a collection system of fisheries loans by
BNT has been non-existant in the past. None of the twenty BNT
branch offices along the coast had a collection agent.
1.40      The effect of these deficiencies has been disastrous on the recovery
rate defined as the ratio of total principal and interest collected to total
loan and interest amounts fallen due. It declined steadily to a low of about
6% in September 1978 for IDA financed loans. Bank supervision missions have
frequently proposed specific measures to correct the situation, but it was
only during pre-appraisal and appraisal of the proposed Project in July and
October 1978 that DSP as well as BNT recognized the seriousness of the
situation and adopted concrete measures to rectify it. These measures con-
sisted of:
(i) improvement in the cooperation between DSP and BNT's technical
services at the central and regional levels;
(ii)  the recruitment of seven BNT recovery agents by March 1979;
(iii)  the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture to instruct DSP to
link renewal of fishing licenses and granting of subsidies on
fuel to loan recovery;
(iv)  opening of legal proceedings against loan defaulters which
resulted in the seizure of seven boats in March 1979.
During negotiations, a program for recovery of subloans under the First
Fisheries Project was agreed upon which foresees an improvement of the
recovery rate to 40% by the end of 1979 and to 75% by the end of 1982.



- 13 -
D. The Project Area
Location and Climatic Conditions
Coastline
1.41      The coast of Tunisia extends eastward from the Algerian frontier, 10
km west of Tabarka to Cap Bon, and southward to the Libyan border, 6 km east
of El Ketef. The coast has three large bights, the Gulfs of Tunis, Hammamet
and Gabes. Off the coast there are several rocks, dangerous shoals and
islands, the largest of which are La Galite, the Kerkennahs and Djerba (Map
No. 14165).
1.42      The coastline of about 1,300 km including the islands, may be sub-
divided into two zones each with different characteristics. The northern and
north-eastern zone, from Tabarka to Mahdia, is mainly bold and rocky and
is dominated, particularly in the north, by the eastern flank of the Atlas
Mountains. It has a very narrow Continental Shelf with steep foreshores
backed by rock cliffs, which are interspersed with pockets of sandy beach and
broken occasionally by small estuaries and lagoons. The south-eastern zone
from Mahdia to the Libyan border, on the other hand, has flat, arid hinter-
lands and sandy, gently-sloping foreshores with, for example, depths of only
5 m at distances of 3 to 12 km offshore of Sfax.
Tide, Wind and Wave Activity
1.43      To the north of Mahdia the tidal ranges are small, rarely exceed-
ing 40 cm, and the tidal currents are correspondingly weak. To the south of
Mahdia the tides are larger, with spring tidal ranges in the Gulf of Gabes
increasing from 1.6 m at Sfax to over 2 m at Gabes, but tidal and wind-driven
currents seldom exceed 0.5 m/s.
1.44      On the northern coast of Tunisia strong winds and gales blowing over
considerable fetches from W and NW predominate throughout the year (Map No.
14166), generating an east-going current and raising high seas, with wave
heights in deep water exceeding 4 m on an average of 7 days a year (Map No.
14170). Being exposed to such wave action necessitates the construction of
massive and costly breakwaters to obtain adequate shelter for vessels, and
explains why so few fishery harbors have been built on this coast.
1.45      Although the distribution and frequency of wind strength and wave
activity is similar at sea off the eastern coast of Tunisia to that of the
northern part, the coastline itself is exposed mainly to lighter local winds,
principally from the NE to SE sector, and waves which rarely exceed 2 m in
height. Consequently, there is less need for protection from wave action.



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Preparation and Location
2.01      As a follow-up to the First Fisheries Project, the Tunisian Govern-
ment requested Bank assistance in financing a new project involving the
integrated development of coastal fisheries. Two preliminary studies financed
by Government were undertaken by the consulting firms PROJETUD and CEGOS in
1974 and 1976. However, these studies were found to be inadequate as a basis
for Project appraisal by an IBRD/FAO CP mission in 1976, and consequently the
Tunisian Government in November 1977 employed the engineering consulting firm
Societe Generale de Technique et d'Etudes (SGTE) to undertake a critical
review of the two earlier studies, and to prepare a complete feasibility
study, including detailed engineering and the preparation of tender documents
for the port works. This was financed by an advance of US$430,000 from the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The work of the consultant was supervised
jointly by the Ministry of Equipment in Tunisia and IBRD/FAO CP. Pre-appraisal
was undertaken in June 1978 by a joint Bank/FAQ CP mission and appraisal took
place in October 1978.
2.02      In the course of Project preparation and appraisal 47 sites were
visited. By exclusion of sites unsuitable or too costly for development, the
number of sites under consideration was gradually reduced to the following 10
sites finally retained: Sidi Daoud, Beni Khiar, Hergla, Salakta, En Najet, La
Louata, Mahares, Zarat, Bou Grara, and Adjim. Criteria for retaining sites
were (i) technical feasibility of port construction; (ii) least cost alterna-
tive; (iii) access to fishing grounds; (iv) availability of human resources;
and (v) need of port facilities.
B. Project Objectives
2.03      In line with the objectives set forth in the Fifth Development Plan
to increase fish production (para. 1.04), the Project aims at contributing to
an increase in production of coastal fisheries from 23,800 t in 1977 to about
34,000 t in 1984. Of the total increase of 10,200 t about 8,800 t are attri-
butable to the Project. The increase in production will be achieved by
satisfying the pressing need for port infrastructure, to permit the existing
coastal fishing fleet to undertake more fishing trips per year, and by adding
new fishing capacity in the form of new boats.
2.04      A further major objective is the creation of permanent employment
for about 1,750 fishermen, which will alleviate the situation of open and
hidden unemployment in the agricultural sector. A considerable share of
fishermen taking up the new jobs is expected to come from the rural poor.
Additional employment will be created in auxiliary industries like boat
building and repair, wholesale and retail markets, cooperatives and fisheries
supply stores (para 6.02). The Project also aims at improving fish supply



- 15 -
and the uneven distribution of fish among the population. Further important
objectives are related to institution building:
(i) establishment of a central Fisheries Authority with well
defined coordinating responsibilities; and
(ii) better access to credit for fishermen and improvement of the
collections of loan repayments by adequate supervision of subloans.
This would result in more funds collected which would be available
for relending.
2.05      Project production would also be directed toward earning foreign
exchange directly through the export of frozen shrimps and indirectly through
the consumption of high quality fish by about one million tourists visiting
Tunisia every year.
C. Project Description
General
2.06      Ports.  The Project is designed to meet the objectives outlined
in paras. 2.03-2.05 and comprises five main components. Most important
in value will be the construction of 10 small fish ports with the required
shore facilities to serve as bases for coastal fishing activities along the
Tunisian coast. The new port sites will be evenly spread from Cap Bon to
the Gulf of Bou Grara. Boat repair facilities, ice making and cold storage
equipment for some existing ports will also be made available.
2.07      Boats.  The second component will be the construction of 430
coastal inshore fishing boats with inboard engine. Two boat types will be
constructed, the existing "IDA-type" of 11.25 m overall length, which is well
accepted under the First Fisheries Project, with some small but important
modifications; and a new and larger type of 13.80 m overall length with larger
working radius and suitable for rougher weather conditions. Spare parts will
also be included in this component.
2.08      Training and Technical Assistance.  The Project will provide for
on-the-job training of fishermen with the help of mobile training units. It
will also include the necessary training and demonstration equipment and
technical assistance and fellowships for the staff of the newly created
Fisheries Authority responsible for the administration of the fisheries
subsector and the implementation of the proposed Project.
2.09      Studies.  The last Project component will be the preparation of
studies for the expansion of the ports in Tabarka and Kelibia, and a study
examining the potential of lagoon fishing and research work to determine the
exploitable fish stocks and the maximum sustainable yields.



- 16 -
Detailed Features
Port Facilities
2.10       A summary table of the port facilities envisaged for each of the new
or expanded ports follows:
Expected     Expected
Annual      No. of                               Total-a
Production   Fishermen    No. of    No. of       Investment     Cold
at Full     Using      Mooring     Jetties    Cost/m run   Storage    Ice Plant
Ports     Development  Facilities  Facilities   x Length    of Berth    Capacity   Production
(t )                 (berths)                 (US$/m)       (m3)      (t/day)
Sidi Daoud      925        225           70     2 x 100 m       5,545     Already     Already
existing    existing
Beni Khiar      850        220           85      2 x 100 m      6,850       240          5
Hergla          400        100          64       3 x  60 m      6,750       100          3
Salakta          670        250         94      2 x 100 m       2,028    Available    Already
in Mahdia    existing
La Louata      1,000        500         212      7 x  60 mi     3,020       100          5
En Najet       1,800        700         150      5 x  60 m      6,100       240          5
1ahares        1,300        510         1II      3 x  60 m)   11,650    Available        5
I x  80 m)               in Sfax
Zarat            900        300          90      2 x 100 m      6,533    Available       3
in Gabes
Bou Crara        800        270          66      4 x  60 m      5.750       100          5
Adjilm         1,300        490         190      6 x  60 m      3,075       100          5
ka Including service quay.
2.11       All the ports constructed under the Project will have a service quay,
jetties and standard shore facilities, which include administration and socio-
commercial buildings, a fish hall, a caretaker's house, a slipway, workshops,
storerooms, cold storage and ice-making plants. The cold storage capacity



- 17 -
will be either 100 m3 or 240 m3 and the ice-making plant production either
3 t/day or 5 t/day, depending on the needs of each port. Jetties of either 100
m, 80 m or 60 m length will be constructed in each port and the boats will be
moored perpendicular to them. Distances between jetties will be 41 m, for the
Project boats and 25 m for the non-powered boats and the smaller motor boats.
The investment cost per m run of berth based on the least cost design was one
of the criteria for site selection. The cost at Mahares is relatively high
due to the long causeway, the high cost of transporting rock, and the difficult
soil conditions which require a special drainage technique. The construction
of this port is nonetheless justified as there are no alternative sites for
the active fishing activity between Sfax and Skhira Kedima.
w
2.12      To increase the quality of production and the efficiency of fishing
operations in existing Tunisian ports, the Project will include the financing
of ice-making equipment for existing facilities in Ghar El Melh (10 t/day),
Monastir (5 t/day), Saiada (5 t/day) and Hount Souk (10 t/day). In Saiada,
Monastir and Teboulba, urgently needed ship repair facilities will be con-
structed and equipped with the same equipment that is envisaged for the new
ports. La Goulette will receive a cold store of 240 m3 to accommodate the
incoming catch of coastal and trawler fishing for domestic consumption.
Mahdia will receive a freezing tunnel for incoming pelagic and demersal
species destined for export. Twenty refrigerated trucks of about 5 t and an
additional 20 of 3 t carrying capacity will be provided under the Project for
the entities or organizations charged with fish collecting and marketing.
These trucks will be insulated and equipped with a compressor connected to
the engine.
Boats
2.13      11.25 m Boats.  The Project will finance about 400 boats of 11.25 m
overall length. The boats would predominantly have wooden hulls and inboard
diesel engines and would, in design and equipment, be similar to those con-
structed and sold under the First Fisheries Project (para. 1.21). Only wooden
hulls are accepted by fishermen in Tunisia because (i) they have had no
experience with other materials and (ii) they are afraid that ferro-cement
and fiberglass boats cannot be repaired. Tests with ferro-cement boats are
being undertaken (para. 1.25) but fiberglass boats are virtually unknown.
The boats' main technical data would be: overall length 11.25 m, length at
water-line 9.05 m, deck width 3.25 m, draft middle and astern 0.86 m, dis-
placement 7-7.5 t. The boat hulls would be constructed in Tunisian shipyards
which are well equipped for this task and have a sufficiently large capacity
(para 1.23). As compared to the boats built under the First Fisheries Proj-
ect, a number of small but important technical changes would be introduced.
The proposed changes would be directed toward maximum utilization of the boat
by (i) making it safer to maneuver in bad weather, (ii) introducing two types
of deck plans with superstructure on the aft deck or in front at the buyer's
choice, and (iii) giving more comfort to the fishermen so that they are
encouraged to undertake more or longer fishing trips.
2.14      Because of the unsatisfactory results experienced by the introduction
of a new engine under the First Fisheries Project (paras 1.36 and 1.37), new



- 18 -
equipment should not be imposed on fishermen. Boat owners should be given the
option to choose between two different engine makes and between manual and
electrical starting systems. It would be important to guarantee the avail-
ability of spare parts and adequate after-sale service.
2.15      The new boats would be equipped with sufficient quantities of fish-
ing gear, consisting normally of gill nets, trammel nets and longlines
in accordance with the fishing techniques to be used by the boatowner.
2.16      Upon the request of fishermen, the financing of ferro-cement and
fiberglass boats would also be permissible under the Project. The ONP ship-
yard in Bizerte has constructed a prototype under an FAQ financed program
which has nearly the same dimensions as the wooden 11.25 m boat. The proto-
type is successfully operating for ONP in Sidi Daoud. The price for a ferro-
cement boat of this type is expected to be in the price range of the wooden
boat if built in series.
2.17      The 400 11.25 m boats would mainly be sold in the 10 Project sites
(283 boats), but also in existing ports north of Mahdia where, according to
fish resource estimates, there is considerable underexploitation of stocks,
and in other ports in areas which are not overfished. For fishing along the
northern coastline, where seas are rough, especially in winter time, a large
type of coastal fishing boat will be introduced with an overall length of
13.80 m. About thirty of those boats would be located in Sidi Daoud (10),
La Goulette (3), Bizerte (10) and Tabarka (7). They would have a greater
fishing radius to take account of the lower density of harbors at the northern
coast and would offer better protection in rough weather. The vessels' main
characteristics would be: overall length 13.80 m, length at water line 10.80
m, deck width 3.90 m, maximum draft astern 1.40 m, engine hp about 100. They,
too, would have wooden hulls. The investment cost for the 11.25 m boat is
estimated to be D 11,502 (US$25,755) and that for the 13.80 m boat D 30,016
(US$75,040). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
would alter the Arrete of May 4, 1977 to increase the investment cost ceilings
on boats to be considered for lending and subsidies if needed for the imple-
mentation of the Project.
Institution Building
2.18      Equipment and Vehicles for the Fisheries Authority.  The Project
will also comprise the establishment, by Government, of the central Fisheries
Authority responsible for all regulatory functions within the fisheries sub-
sector in Tunisia (para. 3.05-3.06). Following the successful examples of
the special "offices" set up for the administration of the irrigated peri-
meters in Tunisia this Authority would take the form of a semi-autonomous
public agency with legal status and its own budget. It will play an impor-
tant role in the implementation of the Project (para. 3.05). To facilitate
administration of the new ports, the Project will finance 10 small pick-ups
for the regional offices of the Fisheries Authority in charge of the port
administration. The Project will focus on on-the-job training of fishermen
who are normally not willing to spend several months in a training school or
training center. For this purpose, 10 mobile training units will be set up
consisting of three instructors and a driver equipped with a van-type vehicle,



- 19 -
and all the necessary demonstration equipment. Nine 45 hp boat engines and
three 100 hp boat engines would be installed in the most important training
schools and training centers for demonstration purposes.
2.19      Technical Assistance for Training.  The Project will make available
technical assistance to train 40 training instructors for the mobile units and
15 training instructors for training schools and training centers (paras. 3.12
and 3.14). Forty eight man-months of expert service for training purposes
will be needed. The Project will also finance 55 fellowships granted to
Tunisian instructors at the end of each training course.
Studies and Research
2.20      Port Expansion.  Feasibility studies for the expansion of the
ports in Kelibia and Tabarka will be prepared under the Project because of
their importance as cargo and fisheries ports for the development of the
Northwest Region. The feasibility studies will include a critical evaluation
of the existing technical and economic studies, the necessary geotechnical
and hydraulic work, the preparation of preliminary designs and layouts, and
the calculation of investment costs. If it is decided that the port expan-
sion project should be implemented, the preparation of tender documents and
detailed design specifications would follow. Terms of reference for these
studies are in the Project File.
2.21      Study of Lagoon Fishing.  The Project will also include a compre-
hensive study of the possibilities of lagoon fishing mainly in the Lake of
El Biban, the Gulf of Bou Grara, the Lake of Tunis and the Lake of Ichkeul.
These lagoons with small openings to the sea are considered to have large
fish resources which are at present underexploited.
2.22      Research.  Under the Project, research work will be undertaken
to determine the fish stocks, pelagic as well as demersal, along the entire
Tunisian coast line. This work will be undertaken by the Fisheries Authority
in collaboration with INSTOP, with the advice of an expert consultant for whom
three man-months are envisaged to lay the initial groundwork and make periodic
visits at a later date.
Status of Engineering
2.23      Ports and Shore Facilities.  For all Project sites with the excep-
tion of Salakta, detailed engineering has been undertaken for port works
and shore facilities, design specifications and costed bills of quantities
have been prepared and tender documents are ready. The preliminary design
for Salakta has also been made and tender documents are being prepared. Cost
estimates for Salakta have an acceptable degree of accuracy because no break-
waters are required and only little dredging would have to be done in the
existing port basin. Shore facilities for Salakta would be of the standard
size used for the other sites too.
2.24      Boats.  The design for the 11.25 m Project boat is available.
Slight modifications were proposed by a naval architect during pre-appraisal



- 20 -
(para 2.13). The new design for the 13.80 m boat was also prepared during
pre-appraisal. Tender documents for procurement of hulls and engines for both
boat types would be prepared by the Fisheries Authority after Loan signature.
D. Cost Estimates
2.25      The total Project cost is estimated to be D 27.0 million (US$67.6
million) of which the foreign exchange component is D 11.3 million (US$28.3
million) or about 42%. A foreign exchange component of 40% is estimated for
port infrastructure based on the assumption that the works would be undertaken
by a joint venture of foreign and local firms. A foreign exchange component
of 15% is applied to other civil works because it is assumed that Tunisian
contractors will be awarded these civil works contracts.
2.26      The cost estimates are expressed in projected 1980 prices.  Average
physical contingencies of 10% are added for port works, other civil works and
equipment. Price contingencies for local and foreign exchange components are
6% per annum for 1980 through 1984 in accordance with the projected rates of
inflation. Taxes and duties estimated at D 2.6 million (US$6.5 million) and
representing 10% of total Project costs are included in the cost estimates.
Details of cost estimates are given in Annex 1, Table 1 and are summarized
below.



- 21 -
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
- (Dinars '000)                    (US$'000)               %
Ports
Port Infra-
structure          4,902    3,268    8,170  12,255    8,170   20,425          40
Buildings           2,041       360    2,401   5,103         900    6,003      15
Equipment /a           775      758    1,533   1,937    1,895    3,832         50
Subtotal          7,718    4,386   12,104  19,295   10,965   30,260          36
Equipment for
Existing Ports
Civil Works             47        8        55      118        20       138     15
Equipment              640      783    1,423   1,600    1,957    3,557         55
Subtotal            687       791    1,478   1,718    1,977    3,695         54
Supervision of
Construction and
Installation          528       237       765   1,320        593    1,913      31
Boats and
Spare Parts         2,265    3,397    5,662   5,663    8,492   14,155          60
Training and
Institution
Building
Equipment               80       108      188      200       270       470     57
Training/
Fellowships            28      131       159       70       328       398     82
Incremental
Local Person-
nel Costs /b       1,268        -      1,268   3,170         -     3,170       0
Subtotal         1,376       239    1,615   3,440        598    4,038       15
Studies and
Research               194      350       544      485       875    1,360      65
Base Costs
Without
Contingencies      12,768    9,400   22,168  31,921   23,500   55,421          42
Contingencies
Physical              872       508    1,380   2,180    1,270    3,450         37
Price               2,058    1,406    3,464   5,145    3,515    8,660          40
Subtotal          2,930    1,914    4,844   7,325    4,785   12,110          39
Total Project
Cost               15,698   11,314   27,oi2  39,246   28,285   67,531          42
/a   Includes working capital for shipyards.
/b   Includes local instructors, incremental personnel costs of Fisheries
Authority and loan administration BNT.
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 22 -
E. Financing
2.27      The proposed Bank Loan of US$28.5 million will be made to the
Tunisian Government and will finance the foreign exchange cost of the Proj-
ect. The proposed financing plan is given below:
Sub-                          IBRD
borrowers   Government   BNT   Loan   Total
--------------- US$ million ---------------
New Ports
Civil Works                         -           21.1         -    11.1    32.2
Equipment                           -            2.5         -     2.2      4.7
Existing Ports                        -            1.8         -      1.8     3.6
Supervision of
Construction                        -            1.4         -     0.8      2.2
Boats                                1.6           4.9         -      9.8    16.3
Training
Technical Assistance                -            0.1         -      0.3     0.4
Local Personnel                     -            1.2         -       -      1.2
Fellowships                         -             -          -      0.1     0.1
Equipment                           -            0.2         -     0.3      0.5
Vehicles
Refrigerated Trucks                 -            1.0         -      1.2     2.2
Ports                               -            0.2         -      0.1     0.3
Incremental
Personnel Cost                      -            2.0        0.5      -      2.5
Study under Project
Preparation Facility                -            0.3         -      0.4     0.7
Other Studies                         -            0.3         -      0.4     0.7
1.6         37.0        0.5   28.5    67.6
2.28      Goverment contributions will be made to:



- 23 -
(i) The Harbor Department to cover the local expenditure of
civil works and equipment in the Project sites (US$25.4
million equivalent) of supervision of construction and instal-
lation (US$1.4 million equivalent) and of the feasibility
studies for the expansion of the ports of Kelibia and
Tabarka (US$0.2 million equivalent). Local funds of
US$0.3 million equivalent have already been paid by the
Harbor Department for the Project feasibility study
financed under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility;
(ii)  the Fisheries Authority to cover the local expenditure
of training equipment (US$0.2 million equivalent), of
technical assistance for training and various studies
(US$0.2 million equivalent), of refrigerated trucks
and other vehicles (US$1.2 million equivalent) and its
incremental personnel cost including cost of instructors
(US$3.2 million equivalent); and
(iii) BNT to cover the local expenditure of boat construction
(US$4.9 million equivalent).
2.29      These Government contributions will be equity contributions
and allocations to the budgets of the Harbor Department and the Fisheries
Authority. A Project Agreement with BNT will specify the conditions under
which Government and Bank funds will be given to BNT under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (para. 2.33). US$2.45 million equivalent of Government funds will
be given as subsidies for the fishermen's acquisition of boats (15% of invest-
ment cost) and an equal amount as loans (para. 2.33).
2.30      Bank funds will be made available to Government and passed on to:
(i) The Harbor Department to cover the foreign expenditure of
civil works and equipment in the ten port sites (US$13.3
million) and in the existing ports (US$1.8 million), of
supervision of construction and installation (US$0.8
million) and of the feasibility studies for Kelibia and
Tabarka (US$0.25 million). An amount of US$0.4 million
is being disbursed under an advance from the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility;
(ii)  the Fisheries Authority to cover the foreign expenditure
of training equipment (US$0.3 million) of technical
assistance for training, various studies and fellowships
(US$0.55 million) and of refrigerated trucks and other
vehicles (US$1.3 million); and
(iii) BNT to cover the foreign expenditure of boat construction
(US$9.8 million).



- 24 -
2.31      The Bank funds will be allocated to the budgets of the Harbor
Department and the Fisheries Authority. Funds for BNT will be given as a
loan (para. 2.33).
2.32      BNT will contribute the personnel cost for the subloan recovery
system (total US$0.5 million equivalent).
2.33      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government,
prior to Loan Effectiveness, will conclude an agreement with the Fisheries
Authority regarding channelling of Government and Bank funds. Assurances were
also obtained that prior to Loan Effectiveness, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with BNT will be concluded to specify that BNT will obtain Government and Bank
funds (total of US$12.3 million equivalent) at 2.5% interest for 12 years,
including five years of grace. A 3.5% interest spread is necessary to cover
BNT's administrative cost, prefinancing contract payments and the lending
risk.  Subloans to Fishermen will be made at the FOSEP current interest rate
of 6%.  This rate is the same as that charged for agricultural lending and
is about the same as the past and projected rates of inflation in Tunisia
(1975:5.4%, 1977: 6.7%, 1978: 5.3%; 1979-1981: 6%).  The FOSEP also provides
for 15% subsidy (para. 1.26).  Sublending conditions under the Project are
outlined in para. 3.07.  They will be reviewed periodically to determine
their justification and will be adjusted if required. In compliance with
the Government Policy to have banking institutions assume a greater portion
of the lending risk (Supplementary letter No. 2 to Loan Agreement No. 1340
TUN of December 17, 1976), BNT will assume 25% of the default risk on sub-
loans granted throughout Project implementation. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government will maintain this policy and will
periodically review the rates of BNT's risk assumption.
2.34      Fishermen will contribute 10% of boat investment cost (US$1.6
million equivalent).
Project Preparation Facility
2.35      The feasibility study for this Project, including detailed engineer-
ing and preparation of tender documents, amounted to D 292,852 (US$732,130).
The Bank financed part of the foreign exchange component amounting to
US$430,000 under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The cost of this
study has been included in the Project cost and the amount advanced by the
Bank will be refinanced under the proposed Loan.
F. Procurement
2.36      Ports.  Contracts for port construction including delivery and
installation of equipment in the ten new port sites as well as in the exist-
ing ports will be grouped together in lots (para. 2.40) by the Harbor Depart-
ment and will be tendered under procurement procedures consistent with Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in March 1977. Contracts not exceeding the cost of



- 25 -
US$250,000 equivalent for civil works and US$100,000 equivalent for equip-
ment will be let under competitive bidding procedures, advertised locally,
provided that the aggregate amount of all such contracts will not exceed
US$750,000 equivalent for civil works and US$300,000 equivalent for equip-
ment. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
2.37      Boats and Boat Equipment.  Since the capacity of Tunisian shipyards
is sufficiently large to guarantee adequate competition and since experience
shows that competition from foreign boat yards for wooden hulls is highly
improbable, these hulls will be procured by the Fisheries Authority on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. The Authority will have the
option to enter into contracts with several shipyards in order to arrive at
more rapid delivery. Fishing gear and boat diesel engines will be procured
under international competitive bidding procedures.  For the procurement  if
l'- 45 hp engines the Authority may reserve the right to enter into contracts
with up to two engine suppliers in order to take account of fishermen's
preferences. Each engine supplier (two for the 45 hp and one for the 100 hp
engines) will be asked to maintain a central consignment stock of spare parts
with the Authority in Tunis. The entities operating the ship repair facili-
ties at the various port sites will purchase spare parts from this consignment
stock through the Authority. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
2.38      Vehicles.  The Fisheries Authority will purchase the 40 refrigerated
trucks under international competitive bidding procedures and the ten pick-ups
and 10 vans under competitive bidding procedures advertised locally.
2.39      Margin of Preference and Advertisement.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Tunisian manufacturers will be granted a margin of
preference in bid evaluations for goods manufactured in Tunisia, and that
amenclments to contracts adding or deleting more than 16% of their respective
value will not be made without the prior concurrence of the Bank. The Harbor
Department and/or the Fisheries Authority will provide general procurement
notices in a timely manner for publication in the UN Development Forum.
2.40      Procurement Lots.  It is estimated that procurement for port infra-
structure will be done in three lots, the first to comprise the port works at
Sidi Daoud, Beni Khiar and Hergla (about US$7.8 million), the second the port
works at Salakta, La Louata and Mahares (about US$9 million) and the third the
port works at En Najet, Zarat, Adjim and Bou Grara (about US$8.5 million).
Similarly about three contracts would be let for civil works of shore facili-
ties in the same groups of ports (about US$2.4 million, US$2.6 million and
US$3.6 million respectively).  Equipment for all new and existing ports would
be combined in one contract (about US$8.8 million).
2.41      Boats.  For boat hulls about nine contracts will be awarded to
Tunisian shipyards, three in 1980 for a period covering approximately 18
months, three in 1981 for another 18 months and three in 1983 for the remain-
ing number of hulls. Total estimated contract value for hulls is D 3.7
million (US$9.3 million). Upon special request of fishermen, fully equipped



- 26 -
ferro-cement or fiberglass boats will be purchased through negotiated con-
tracts provided that the estimated amount of contracts for such boats within
any twelve-month period does not exceed the equivalent of US$100,000.
2.42      Under the assumption that contracts for boat engines would be
awarded to three different suppliers (two suppliers for the 45 hp and one for
the 100 hp engines), it is estimated that seven contracts would be let. The
contract for the 100 hp engines would be let in 1980 and the six contracts for
the 45 hp engines would be awarded with the same phasing as indicated above
for the hulls. The combined value for all boat engines including spare parts
is estimated to be D 2.0 million (US$4.9 million).
2.43      For fishing gear three contracts will be let with the same,hasing
as indicated above for the hulls. The estimated value of these contracts is D
0.9 million (US$2.2 million).
2.44      For refrigerated trucks one contract will be awarded in an esti-
mated value of D 0.9 million (US$2.2 million). For vehicles and other equip-
ment, several small contracts will be awarded with a total value of D 0.8
million (US$2.0 million). Assurances regarding grouping in lots of sufficient
size to enable international competitive bidding for the components described
above in paras. 2.36-2.43 were obtained during negotiations.
G. Disbursements
2.45      The proposed Bank loan of US$28.5 million is expected to be dis-
bursed over a period of five years, 1980-1984. The loan will finance:



- 27 -
Cost
Category                               (US$ million)
I.   35% of the cost of all civil works contracts for
port infrastructure and buildings representing
the estimated foreign exchange component                      10.3
II.   100% of foreign expenditures for all imported
equipment for shore facilities and vehicles; and
55% of local expenditures for the cost of goods
purchased locally representing the estimated
average foreign exchange component                             4.9
III.   100% of foreign expenditures for all imported
boat engines and boat equipment including fishing
gear and 80% of local expenditures for the cost
of boat engines and boat equipment purchased
locally, and 30% of local expenditures for boat
hulls, and 100% of foreign and 70% of local
expenditures for all fully equipped ferro-cement
or fiberglass boats representing the estimated
average foreign exchange component                             9.8
IV.   100% of foreign expenditures for:
(a) supervision of construction of port works
and shore facilities;                          0.8
(b) technical assistance for the training of
instructors and fellowships;                   0.4
(c)  studies for the expansion of the ports of
Kelibia and Tabarka; and research work
on fish stocks                                 0.4
1.6
V.   Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                      0.4
VI.  Unallocated                                                   1.5
28.5
2.46      Disbursements under all categories will be made against appropriate
documentation to be forwarded to the Bank together with each withdrawal
application. No disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures.



- 28 -
H. Project Accounts and Audits
2.47      Separate accounts will be maintained for all Project expenditures by
all entities involved in Project implementation, i.e. the Harbor Department,
the Fisheries Authority and BNT. BNT will have its accounts and annual
financial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
Audited Project accounts and annual financial statements will be forwarded to
the Bank within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year in a form acceptable
to the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
2.48    BNT will maintain an adequate accounting system to show subloans
committed and disbursed, interest fallen due and collected, and principal
fallen due and collected. The overdue amounts categorized by age, will also
be recorded. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. Borrower and Project Execution
3.01      The Republic of Tunisia will be the borrower of the Loan.  The
Fisheries Authority will have the task of coordinating and supervising the
various entities involved in the implementation of the Project.
3.02      Participating in the implementation of the Project would be the
Ministry of Equipment for the construction of the ports and port facilities,
the newly created Fisheries Authority and BNT.
3.03      The Harbor Department will be the executing agency for the construc-
tion of the ten port sites, including infrastructure and shore facilities, as
well as the construction of facilities in existing ports. This department has
already supervised together with the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program the prepara-
tory work for the Project and is well qualified for the job because of its
previous involvement in numerous ports and other infrastructure projects
already carried out. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Harbor Department will be assisted in the supervision of construction and
installation by an engineering consultant to be employed prior to the award of
the contract for the first lot of ports, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank. A total
of about 108 man-months of expatriate consultant's time and about 720 man-
months of local consultant's time will be needed. Assurances with respect to
the Harbor Department's role in port construction and supervision of works
were obtained during negotiations.
3.04      The Harbor Department will also be responsible for hiring a quali-
fied consulting firm for the preparation of feasibility studies for Kelibia



- 29 -
and Tabarka. For this study a total of approximately 40 man-months of con-
sultant's time will be needed. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that consultants will be hired, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.05      The Fisheries Authority will be created as a semi-autonomous public
agency under the supervision of a ministry to undertake all administrative and
regulatory functions in the fisheries subsector. It will play an important
role in the implementation of the Project by being involved in the following
Project activities:
(i)  Carrying out the whole procurement process for boats, equipment
and vehicles, including preparation of tender documents,
tendering procedures, bid evaluations and contract awards;
(ii)  supervising boat construction and pre-delivery inspection;
(iii)  making the technical/economic appraisal of fishermen's appli-
cations for subloans;
(iv)  coordinating its own Project-related activities with those
of other agencies especially (a) the Harbor Department regarding
port construction, (b) BNT regarding subloan supervision and
collection, and (c) ONP regarding marketing and export of
Project boat catch;
(v) operating Project ports and collecting harbor dues from
fishermen;
(vi)  operating shore facilities until they can be leased under a
commercial lease agreement and then supervising the leases;
(vii)  supervising the study on the potential of lagoon fishing and
the research program on assessment of fish stocks and MSY;
(viii)  organizing and implementing Project-related training programs;
(ix)  monitoring fish production and Project progress and preparing
statistics;
(x) preparing periodic progress reports, including reports on
sea pollution; and
(xi)  promoting the formation of fishermen's cooperatives or similar
professional organizations and supervising their activities.
3.06      One of the possible forms of organizational set-up is reflected in
Annex 1, Chart 1 with a description in the Project File. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that prior to Loan Effectiveness (i) appropriate
legislation will be promulgated by the Tunisian Government to formally



- 30 -
establish a new Fisheries Authority whose role would be, inter alia, to
undertake the tasks described in para. 3.05 above; (ii) the Director General
of the Authority will be appointed; and (iii) the necessary arrangements will
be made to provide the Authority with resources and determine the details of
its functions and responsibilities.
3.07      BNT.  As under the First Fisheries Project, subloan disbursements
to fishermen will be channelled through BNT. BNT will make individual loans
to fishermen after having received a technical/economic appraisal of loan
applications from the Fisheries Authority. BNT will evaluate the financial
viability of a proposed operation and the applicant's creditworthiness. For
this purpose, BNT will continue its efforts to decentralize decisions on loan
applications to its branches and to gradually raise the ceilings for loan
approval to be undertaken by the branch directors. Upon receipt of the 10%
contribution from the fishermen, subloans will be made for a total duration of
eight years including six months of grace period at 6% annual interest on the
outstanding amount paid in monthly installments or by direct deduction. In
order to ensure that boat ownership would not be concentrated in the hands of
a few owners, assurances were obtained during negotiations that BNT will make
only one subloan per person.
3.08      New boats will be mortgaged to BNT before delivery.  This form
of security could eventually be replaced by a guarantee of a fishermen's
cooperative for its members. Also, a certificate of insurance will have to
be presented to BNT by the fishermen before delivery. BNT would examine the
possibility of financing the insurance amounts for the duration of the sub-
loan in order to guarantee an uninterrupted insurance of Project boats and
obtaining bulk insurance at more favorable rates. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that BNT will apply subloan conditions as specified in
paras. 3.07 and 3.08 and that the fishermen's down-payment of 10% will have
to be made with his own funds.
3.09      To reinforce its loan supervision and collection system, BNT has
recently recruited six recovery agents to supervise its fisheries portfolio.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that prior to Loan Effective-
ness, BNT will recruit a total of seven recovery agents and maintain a ratio
of one recovery agent per 50 outstanding subloans financed by the Bank.
These agents will be responsible for full-time loan supervision and collec-
tion for all types of subloans. Assurances were also obtained that BNT will
be assisted in its collection efforts by the Fisheries Authority which will,
in cooperation with BNT, provide appropriate training in credit matters to
fishermen and students at training schools and vocational centers, and which
in cases of necessity will arrange that tax exemption on fuel will be withheld
for defaulters and that their fishing licenses will be revoked or not renewed.
3.10      Professional Organization.  The construction of the new port sites
would be an ideal opportunity to reorganize the fishermen and establish
of this type of fishermen's organizations would be promoted under the Project
and if successful the system could be expanded to include other Tunisian
fishing ports. Membership would be on a voluntary basis. These cooperatives



- 31 -
and organizations would be eligible for renting and managing port facilities
made available by the Fisheries Authority. They would provide their members
with services concerning marketing of their products. For this purpose, they
would assist them in the collection, storage and auctioning of fish at compe-
titive costs. They would also sell fisheries equipment such as fishing gear,
ropes, lines, mechanical parts, tools, and make available short-term seasonal
credit to be refinanced by BNT. If successful, the cooperatives and organiza-
tions could expand their services by guaranteeing the subloan repayment of
their members to BNT. This could replace the present cumbersome system of
boat mortgaging. Through the marketing arrangements the cooperatives and
organizations could automatically deduct certain percentages from the catch
value to cover their own costs and advances and to repay BNT.
3.11      Fishermen's cooperatives would have a members' assembly, a board
consisting of elected members and a president, who would also be elected. A
salaried manager paid by the cooperative and assisted by additional staff if
necessary would be responsible for the administration, accounting, opera-
tion of shops and other services granted to fishermen and accountable to the
assembly and the board. Progress in cooperative development would be closely
monitored by Bank missions.
3.12      Training.  lUnder the Project mobile training units will be set
up and attached to training schools or training centers. These mobile units
would cover all coastal districts and would be composed of three specialized
instructors and one driver. Their fields of specialization would be: (i)
fishing technology, (ii) mechanical and electrical repairs, and (iii) boat
carpentry. Three consultants would be employed to train the instructors.
During the first Project year, they would spend the initial three months in
Tunisia studying the conditions and preparing the training program. Train-
ing would be carried out in three groups, with ten instructors in each group,
and would last for a period of three months. The consultants would also
hold classes for carpenters, electricians, mechanics and cold store techni-
cians, who would be employed in the new port sites. The training of the 30
instructors (10 instructors in the mechanical and electrical field, 10 in
boat carpentry, and 10 in fishing techniques) would be completed by a one
month fellowship. In 1982 or 1983 the consultants would conduct refresher
courses and train newly recruited instructors for a period of three months.
3.13      The training teams will be equipped with a van-type vehicle con-
taining all the necessary demonstration equipment in terms of fishing gear
and tools. The mobile units would make regular trips to certain ports and
accompany fishermen on fishing trips for training purposes. The mobile units
would be attached to the three fisheries schools located in Bizerte, Kelibia
and Sfax and to the vocational training centers in Tabarka, Monastir, Gabes,
Zarzis and La Goulette. The mobile units would be informed from the shipyards
and the Fisheries Authority about all deliveries of Project boats and the port
of registration. The mobile units would be available to train the new crew of
each boat and would make periodic visits to the ports - at least three or four
times annually, even after full development.



- 32 -
3.14      A fourth consultant would undertake the training of 15 specialized
instructors who would also be attached to training schools and training
centers. The consultant would be responsible for promoting the idea of
cooperative formation and giving insight into the mechanisms of the credit
system. The consultant will prepare his training course in close coopera-
tion with BNT. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that training
consultants will be employed whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Implementation Schedule
3.15      The Project would be implemented over a period of five years.
It is estimated that the construction of ports would take three years:
the first two years for dredging and construction of quays, jetties and
breakwaters, and the third year for the construction of shore facilities and
installation of equipment. Salakta would be an exception, where, due to the
small amount of new infrastructure required, the works could be finished by
the end of 1981.
3.16      Construction of Project boats would start in 1980, and boats would
be delivered to the existing ports in the same year. Deliveries to the other
Project ports would start in 1982 and continue until 1984. The training and
technical assistance component could start as soon as the first boat hulls
were built and the first batch of engines was delivered. This is expected to
take place by the end of 1980. The training of fishermen on the job would be
carried out throughout the implementation period and could be continued after
1984 if deemed necessary. The Fisheries Authority would be institutionalized
prior to Loan Effectiveness which is expected to take place in the fall of
1979, and would start operations immediately thereafter. It is expected that
the Authority would not reach its full manpower strength before 1982.
3.17      The study for the expansion of the harbors in Kelibia and Tabarka
would commence in 1980 and be finalized by 1982. Research work for the
determination of fish stocks along the Tunisian coast would start as soon as
possible in 1980. The study on the potential of lagoon fishing would also
commence in 1980 and is expected to be finalized in 1982. A bar chart showing
the implementation schedule of the various Project components is in Annex 1,
Chart 2.
C. Operation and Maintenance
3.18      The ports to be constructed under the Project would all be ready
for operation at the end of Project year 3, i.e., December 1982. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Fisheries Authority will appoint
a harbor master prior to the initial operation of any of the ports and
related shore facilities. The harbor master will be in charge for the



- 33 -
smooth operation of all port facilities and will plan and supervise execution
of maintenance and repair works; such as maintenance dredging, seaweed removal,
maintenance of buildings and slipways. An estimation of the cost of main-
tenance is shown in the Project File. The cost for maintaining port infra-
structure will be borne by the fishermen under a system of port fees to be
devised by 1982 (para 3.20). The Fisheries Authority will be responsible to
collect the port fees and to this end will employ one accountant/finance
officer in each port.
3.19      Fishermen would land their catch at the service quays in the new
ports, from where it would be transported to the fish halls. The fishermen's
organizations would sell the catch for the fishermen to a wholesaler on a
commission basis. Fish would be stored in the cold stores till the time of the
fish auctions, which would normally be held in the morning. The organizations
would have office space in the socio-economic buildings of each port, where
they might also maintain retail shops for fishing gear and other items. Boat
servicing and boat repairs would be done in the repair facilities attached to
each port, which would be equipped with slipways, mechanical workshops and
carpentry workshops. All shore facilities will be operated on a commercial
basis (para. 3.20).
D. Cost Recovery
3.20      Under the Project, the Government will carry out a study in 1980
to review cost recovery aspects for port infrastructure. The study will
determine the basis and terms and conditions of port fees to be levied.
The Government will then introduce a system of port fees not later than
December 31, 1982 to recover operating and maintenance costs of port infra-
structure and, to the extent possible, depreciation. Shore facilities such
as boat repair yards and slipways, ice-making plants, cold stores, service
buildings, stores, refrigerated trucks and fuel stations will be leased to
commercial operators by the Fisheries Authority against rental fees that
will cover operation and maintenance costs, depreciation and, to the extent
possible, will yield a reasonable rate of return on investment. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.21      In the past, no user charges, such as port fees, were levied on
fishermen for coastal fishing, and, in the framework of a general production
promotion policy, Government has subsidized individual investments in the sub-
sector (paras 1.27 and 1.28). On the other hand, through a complex taxation
system, Government has managed to recover part of these subsidies through
custom duties, taxes on production of goods and services and income taxes.
Under the Project, the Government will recover through taxes, duties, port
and rental fees all of the operating and maintenance costs and more than 80%
of the total investment cost for port infrastructure, shore facilities and
the subsidy on boat investment. Costs and benefits for these calculations
were discounted at 10% representing the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in Tunisia.



- 34 -
E. Monitoring and Reporting
3.22      Production under the Project will have to be closely monitored
by the Fisheries Authority with the assistance of fishermen's associations.
Special attention will have to be given to a complete recording of catch
including the fishermen's own consumption. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that one adequately trained employee of the Fisheries Authority
to be appointed not later than June 30, 1980 will undertake to monitor on a
sample basis the impact of the Project on fish production, profitability of
boats, income of boats owners and crew members, fish prices and supply in
various ports, and that results of these efforts will be periodically
reported to the management of the Fisheries Authority and the Bank. During
Project implementation the Fisheries Authority will be required to submit
quarterly progress reports to the Bank in which the progress of all Project
activities will be described. It will have the responsibility of combining
these progress reports with reports obtained from the Ministry of Equipment,
during construction of ports, and from BNT. BNT's reports would include
details on loan applications, loans committed and disbursed, and loan super-
vision, including recoveries. The Fisheries Authority will submit to the Bank
annual reports together with their budget of income and expenditure. BNT will
also submit annual reports together with its audited financial statements not
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. Not later than six
months after the Closing Date of the Loan, the Fisheries Authority will
prepare and furnish to the Bank a completion report on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost, the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance of the Fisheries Authority, the Harbor
Department and BNT, and inform the Bank of their respective obligations under
the proposed Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
proposed Loan. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND DEMAND
A. Production Parameters of the Prolect
4.01      In determining the production parameters of the existing fishing
fleet and the fishing vessels to be financed under the Project, expected
catch rates have been used. These are based on experience gained during
implementation of the First Fisheries Project and on extensive field observa-
tion during appraisal.  The estimates take account of a number of additional
factors which in the past have hindered the full utilization of the fishing
craft.
4.02      The Project will introduce a training element (paras. 3.12-3.14)
which should yield quick results in making fishermen fully acquainted with
their boats and in making them more flexible in adopting varying fishing
techniques, which they can use in the exploitation of alternative fishing



- 35 -
grounds. Being fully familiar with boat hulls and boat engines, the number
of repair days would be reduced. Through the introduction of proper repair
facilities in each of the new ports and additionally in Saiada, Teboulba
and Monastir, repair days for boats would be further reduced enabling the
fishermen to undertake more fishing trips per year.
4.03      The unrecorded portion of the catch at present is estimated to
be between 30% and 50%. This occurs most frequently in areas where there
are no port facilities for disembarking the fish and where tourist hotels
are located, so that the fish is sold directly. The Project will make more
landing facilities available. The incidence of unrecorded catch in coastal
fisheries cannot totally be avoided, but with these added facilities it is
expected to decrease. An allowance for unrecorded catch has been made in the
financial analysis of the boats, the economic analysis of the new harbors,
and the economic analysis of the Project as a whole.
4.04      Details of the production parameters are in Annex 4 and are sum-
marized below:



- 36 -
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4-15
Catch in kg per day
11.25 m boat
Fish                            70          70           80            90
Octopus                         35          35           35            35
Shrimp                          25          25           25            25
Catch in kg per day
13.80m boat
Fish                            90         110          130           150
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4-15
Annual Catch in t per
11.25 m boat
Group A Ports a/
Fish                          14.0        14.0         16.0          18.0
Group B Ports b/
Fish                          4.2          4.2          4.8           5.4
Octopus                        3.5         3.5          3.5           3.5
Shrimp                        1.0          1.0          1.0           1.0
Annual Catch in t per
13.80m boat                       18.0        22.0         26.0          30.0
Fish        Octopus         Shrimp
Fishing days per year
for all boats
Group A Ports a/                    200              -              -
Group B Ports b/                     60            100             40
/a   Group A Ports include Sidi Daoud, Beni Khiar, Hergla and Salakta where no
shrimp and octopus are caught.
/b   Group B Ports include La Louata, En Najet, Mahares, Zarat, Bou Grara and
Adjim where shrimp and octopus are caught.
4.05      The 11.25 m Project boats would thus have an expected annual catch at
full development of 18 t. Of this, up to 5 t are expected to be unrecorded.



- 37 -
Without ports and on-the-job training, the boats would produce 70 kg/day with
130 fishing days in the year which would bring annual production to 9.1 t.
On-the-job training would bring about an increase in the production per day
from 70 to 90 kg, which would result in an annual production increase of 2.6 t.
With the port facilities, the number of fishing days would increase to 200.
For the 13.80 m Project boats, production per fishing day would gradually
increase from 90 kg to 150 kg, resulting in an annual production increase from
18 t to 30 t.
B. Total Production
4.06      It is assumed that without the Project, there would be a slight
overall decrease in the existing number of rowing and sailing boats and
motorboats over the 30-year period under consideration. The anticipated
decrease of the existing fleet in the Project sites would consist of a 20%
decrease in rowing and sailing boats (in absolute numbers about 160 craft),
and an increase of motorboats by 30% (about 70 craft). Skippers who would
switch from a sailing or rowing boat to a motorboat or from an existing boat
to a new motorboat, would sell their craft so that they would continue to be
in use. With the Project, the existing fleet is assumed to remain stable.
Under the Project, 283 11.25 m boats and 10 13.80 m boats would start operation
in the new ports and another 117 11.25 m boats and 20 13.80 m boats in existing
ports. All these would be considered as net additions to the fleet, i.e., not
as replacements of existing boats.
4.07      Total incremental production of white fish under the Project would
be about 8,600 t of which 2,700 t would be attributable to new boats in
existing ports, 5,600 t to new boats in ports constructed under the Project
and 300 t to incremental production of existing boats. The 160 t additional
shrimp and 60 t additional octopus would be produced by new boats.
C. Marketing
Marketing and Distribution
4.08      The marketing system for fish in Tunisia is characterized by
the operation of a number of different agents and marketing methods. From
the point of first sale several selling methods can be identified. The
producer may sell the fish directly to the consumer in which case it would
not be registered or go through various intermediaries, including ONP.
The most commonly practiced method is the sale of fish through regulated
daily auctions in municipality-owned market places to wholesalers, retailers,
hotels and restaurants all along the coast. The catch earmarked for export or
for freezing and canning is not auctioned, but instead is sent to ONP or
private canneries for processing.



- 38 -
4.09      Prior to liberalization in 1969, ONP monopolized fish marketing
through its extensive marketing system and the Government's price regulations.
Since 1969, ONP has transferred part of its facilities and nearly its entire
retail system to private ownership. In spite of its reduced marketing opera-
tions, ONP is still the major Tunisian fish distributor, processor and
exporter. Marketing facilities established by ONP include a network of fish
collection centers, ice-making plants, refrigeration plants, frozen fish
storage and refrigeration depots. In addition, ONP has a fleet of insulated
and semi-refrigerated trucks to deliver fresh fish to main depots and retail
outlets. These facilities would continue to be run by ONP under the Project.
The Fisheries Authority would lease the marketing facilities constructed under
the Project to ONP or other commercial operators (para. 3.20).
4.10      About 60% of the total landed catch is collected and distributed
by ONP, while the rest is handled by private dealers. There are between
50 to 60 refrigerated trucks used for transporting fish in Tunisia, of
which 30 are owned by ONP. ONP distributes the fish to the main markets,
and also to the large towns in the interior of the country. There are
only about 4 to 5 vehicles per 100 km of coast which is clearly inadequate,
especially if the distribution of fish inland is also considered. The fish
which is not handled by ONP is conveyed by every form of transport ranging
from refrigerated trucks to carts drawn by donkeys. Of the 40 refrigerated
trucks provided under the Project, 10 would service the new Project ports.
Together with the other 30 trucks, they would also be used to improve the
distribution system between the wholesale and retail markets, especially to
reach the interior of the country.
4.11      In terms of the quantity of fish handled, the wholesale fish
markets at Tunis and Sfax dominate the marketing and distribution system.
75% of the total supplies of fresh fish which is sold through the markets
is distributed at Sfax and Tunis.  The right to sell fish at the wholesale
market lies with commission agents who normally take a commission of 4% of
sales.
4.12      The sale of fish at the retail level is characterized by a large
number of small retail outlets. In 1977 there were 113 fish retail outlets
in Tunisia; 104 run by private shopkeepers and 9 run by ONP. While some
of the retail shops maintain a supply of ice and a few have chill stores,
these facilities are not generally found and, hence, deterioration in the
quality of fish occurs. Since ONP disposed of its extensive retail network
in 1970 the State has kept virtually no control over the quality and prices of
the fish sold in the outlets.
Domestic Prices
4.13      In 1978, average wholesale prices of white fish, shrimp and octopus
were D 0.578/kg, D 2.681/kg and D 0.326/kg respectively. Over the past four
years fish prices have been increasing by about 12% per year (6% per year in
real terms) as a result of the inadequate supply in relation to demand. Under
the Project it is expected that prices will continue to rise by 6% p.a. in
real terms up to 1985 (para. 5.01).



- 39 -
4.14      Fish prices in Tunisia are set by the Tunisian wholesale market.
The wholesale price margin is about 30%, which covers the profit margin and
the costs of collecting, packaging, transport, operating costs of sales at
the market and taxes. The maximum retail margin, which is set by law, is 20%
of the wholesale price. These margins are often theoretical as some agents
charge much higher prices in their private dealings. ONP keeps to these
margins, but private retailers can easily avoid control from the state
authorities and hence tend to charge higher prices. The taxes and levies paid
on fish are fairly high. The town corporations run the wholesale markets and
collect taxes for themselves on behalf of the State, commission agents and
handlers. The taxes vary in each market, usually ranging from 8 to 10% of
sales.
D. Domestic and Export Demand
Domestic Market Demand
4.15      Consumption of fish in Tunisia has increased substantially over
the past decade. Estimates of the present domestic consumption of fresh
fish indicate that about 7 kg are consumed per person per year as compared
to 4 kg in 1970. This represents an increase of about 8.3% p.a. over the 1970-
1977 period. In Morocco and Algeria the present per capita consumption is
5 kg and 2 kg respectively, while in France it is 15.4 kg.  In terms of the
quantity of fish consumed, over the period 1972-1977, total consumption grew
from 27,200 t in 1972 to 39,700 t in 1977.
4.16      The average per capita consumption of fish figure is fairly mis-
leading in Tunisia as consumption is unevenly distributed with most of the
fish being consumed in the coastal zones and by tourists. In 1977, the Centre
National d'Etudes Industrielles of Tunis undertook a study on the fisheries
sector and estimated the per capita fish consumption in the big cities, urban
and rural areas to be 12.6 kg, 8.5 kg and 2.5 kg respectively in 1976. There
is no data available on the quantity of fish consumed by tourists, but if one
takes account of the tourist population, estimated to be about 1 million per
year, the average per capita domestic consumption would be even lower.
4.17      FAO's projections, based on their basic projected growth rate of
demand for fish in Tunisia, where it is assumed that there would be a
continuation of present trends in population and income growth and no major
shift in relative prices, indicate that total demand for fish by 1985 will be
about 55,000 t and with the same assumptions, supply of fresh fish will be
about 45,400 t. This represents an increase of respectively 39% and 14% from
the 1977 figure of 39,700 t and therefore would give rise to a gap of 25%.
However, based on an evaluation of the Fifth Plan's targets for production,
exports, processing and fresh fish supply, and the expected output of the
Project, it seems more realistic to assume that the supply of fresh fish will
reach about 55,000 t by 1985. Based on the 1976 consumption per capita
figures quoted in para. 4.15, a growth in private consumption expenditure



- 40 -
of 3.5% p.a., an income elasticity of 1 1/, and a population growth rate of
4.2% p.a. and 0.5% p.a. in urban and rural areas respectively, demand for
fresh fish is expected to reach about 66,000 t by 1985. This results in a gap
in demand and supply of about 27%. The domestic market is therefore expected
to continue to remain undersupplied in the foreseeable future.
Export Market
4.18      Tunisian exports of octopus have grown significantly over the past
five years from around 186 t in 1973 to 2,356 t in 1977. Over the same period
shrimp exports grew from 622 t to 722 t. France, Spain and Italy have been
the principal importers of shrimp from Tunisia.  Octopus has been exported to
Japan, France, Greece, and Italy. During the past two years almost 50% of the
octopus exports from Tunisia have been destined for the Japanese markets.
4.19      FAO projections indicate that the major shrimp markets Japan,
the U.S. and Western Europe will require an additional 100,000 t of shrimp
(above 1974 usage levels) by 1985. As shrimp catches in France, Spain and
Italy are thought to be approaching their upper limit, these markets are
expected to offer improved prospects for sales of shrimp. World trade in
the general category fresh, frozen and cured cephalopods has been increasing
very rapidly in recent years. The main stimulus to this growth in trade has
been a large increase in demand from Japan, Italy and Spain. In Japan, demand
for fresh and frozen octopus has notably risen and this trend is expected to
continue.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Fish Prices and Market Assumptions
5.01      For the financial analysis of the Project, the prices used for
valuing the fish have been based on the 1978 producer prices of D 0.490/kg for
whitefish, D 2.268/kg for shrimp and D 0.276/kg for octopus. Assuming a price
demand elasticity of about -0.6 and based on the demand projections discussed
in para. 4.17, the cumulative price increase from 1978 up to 1985 is expected
to be about 45% or 5.5% p.a. It has been assumed that fish prices will con-
tinue to increase in real terms by about 6% per annum up to 1985, by 4.8%
per annum up to 1990 and thereafter increase at a slower rate of 3.6% per
annum. These assumptions take into account the past trends in fish prices
(para 4.13), the mission price projections based on demand development and
have been agreed upon by the Bank's Commodities division.
1/ From FAO's Agricultural Commodities Projections.



- 41 -
5.02      At full development of the Project, by 1985, incremental production
of whitefish, shrimp and octopus is expected to reach about 8,600 t, 160-
t and 60 t, respectively (para. 4.07). A part of the shrimp and octopus
production will be destined for export. As the domestic market is expected to
continue to remain undersupplied (para. 4.17) and there is sufficient demand
in the export markets for shrimp and octopus (para. 4.18 - 4.19), no problems
are foreseen in marketing the additional production. The quality of fish and
the distribution system is expected to improve with the Project due to the
continuous training effort of the new Fisheries Authority, and the provision
of ice, cold storage and refrigerated trucks for transporting and marketing
the fish.
B. Financial Analysis
5.03      Calculation and projections have been made for the boat repair
facilities in the new ports. Assuming that the annual hull service fees would
be D 250 (US$625) and the engine service fees D 400 (US$1,000) including spare
parts, the financial rate of return for a 11.25 m boat repair facility would
be 11% for Type 1 and 13% for Type 2 1/.  With gross income from boat repairs
and associated variable costs such as consumption of auxiliary materials,
utilities, etc. going down by 5, 10 and 20%, the financial rates of return of
the Type 1 shipyard would decrease to 9%, 8% and 5% respectively, and of the
Type 2 shipyard to 14%, 12% and 7% respectively.
Project Boats
5.04      Financial projections have been made for both the 11.25 m and the
13.80 m Project boats.  With the production parameters discussed in paras.
4.01-4.05, the 11.25 m Project boat would yield a financial rate of return of
26% and the 13.80 m Project boat 23%.  The Government's 15% subsidy has been
considered in the analysis.  If the boat owner were to pay the full investment
costs without Government subsidy, the corresponding financial rates of return
would be 22% and 20%.  Production could go down by 27% for both the 11.25 m
and the 13.80 m boat, and the FRR would still be over 10%. Only with a
decline of 50% and 46% respectively would the the rates of return become
negative. Switching values for the investment costs are 124% and 96%.
With benefits and cost directly related to benefits lagging one year the rates
of return would be 21% and 19%.
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The economic benefits of the Project would arise from an estimated
8,600 t of incremental whitefish production per annum at full development.
1/   Type 1 and Type 2 refer to the two different sizes of shipyards.



- 42 -
Project production would also contribute to foreign exchange earnings
directly through an estimated 160 t of incremental shrimp production and
60 t of incremental octopus production which would contribute to export
earnings of about D 469,200 (US$1.2 million) annually by 1990. The increase
in fish production would be brought about by providing new boats and by
developing urgently needed port infrastructure, which would permit the exist-
ing coastal fishing fleet at the Project sites to undertake more fishing
trips per year, (paras. 4.05 and 4.07) and the new boats to operate more
efficiently.
6.02      The Project will create about 2,000 new jobs, 1,750 for fishermen
and 250 for craftsmen and personnel of the Fisheries Authority   The expected
evolution of their income in constant terms by 1985 is shown in the table
below:
Number         Annual Net Income /1
of New         Without        With
Jobs Created     Project       Project
(D)          (D)
I.   Boats
Skippers                   430          240-360        1,900
Mechanics                  430            240          1,600
Young Crew Members
from Training
Schools                  890             -           1,100
1,750
II.   Port Facilities
Craftsmen and
Personnel of
Authority                250            240          1,500
Total of New Jobs        2.000
/1   The absolute poverty level in rural areas in Tunisia is
estimated to be D 41.8/year (US$104.5).
2,000 fishermen at present engaged in less efficient fisheries activities at
the port sites would have their incomes improved because of an increased
number of fishing days brought about by the construction of the new ports
which will permit fishing trips at all tide levels.
6.03      One of the most important long-term economic benefits of the Project
would stem from the increased efficiency in the administration of the fisheries
sector as a whole as a result of the operation of the Fisheries Authority



- 43 -
which would be established under the Project. The entire credit system and
recovery of loans would also improve with the appointment of recovery agents in
BNT's branches, thus preparing the sector for expanded credit on a financially
sound basis. The marketing system and quality control is also expected to
improve under the supervision of the Authority, and with the provision of
additional refrigerated trucks under the Project the uneven distribution of
fish marketing is expected to change over time as new markets are penetrated
in the interior. Finally, the training component of the Project would improve
the skills of the existing fishermen and contribute to more efficient opera-
tions in the fisheries subsector.
B. Economic Analysis
6.04      The overall Project economic rate of return based on all quantifiable
benefits and costs is 27%. The economic rates of return for the ports range
from 17% to 35% (Annex 3, Table 2). Benefits included for the overall Project
economic analysis are the total catch value of new boats and the incremental
catch value of the existing fleet due to increased number of fishing days as a
result of the port facilities. However, the scope for potential benefits is
far greater than those included in the analysis as there are benefits which do
not lend themselves to quantification, but which are nonetheless substantial;
these benefits are outlined in paras. 6.02 and 6.03. Costs included are the
port works and boat investment costs and their corresponding operating costs,
equipment for existing ports, training, institution building and research.
6.05      The construction of the ports would be phased over a three-year
period beginning in 1980, and the boats would be phased over a five-year
period. The phasing of benefits and costs is presented in Annex 3, Table
2. operating costs are projected over a 30-year period. As the official
exchange rate is considered to be a close approximation of the shadow exchange
rate, all calculations have been based on the rate of US$1 = 0.4 Dinars (1
Dinar = US$2.5).
Investment and Operating Costs
6.06      All costs including physical contingencies are expressed in 1980
constant prices adjusted to exclude taxes.
Labor Pricing
6.07      The potential fishermen for the Project would be mainly drawn from
the agricultural sector, where they are at present unemployed or employed
part time. As their full-time employment in the fisheries sector would
only generate a small labor loss in the agricultural sector, shadow wage
rates have been assessed at 50% of the minimum agricultural wage rate for 3
members of the 11.25 m and 13.80 m boat crew and at the full minimum agricul-
tural wage rate for the remaining members of the crew in each boat.



- 44 -
Catch Rates and Fish Pricing
6.08      The catch rates assumed for each boat are shown in para. 4.04.
The domestic retail price net of wholesale and retail costs has been used
as economic price of white fish. (Annex 3, Table 1). No adequate basis
exists for valuing whitefish in border prices. There is sufficient demand
within the country so that the fish would not be exported, and due to the
specialized nature of the market, where certain fish species are not found
elsewhere, the insufficient data on import prices and the physical problems
of importation, import prices have not been used. The price increases applied
have been discussed in para 5.01. In 1985, whitefish is valued at D 0.895/kg,
and from 1990 onwards an average price of D 1.575/kg has been applied.  Prices
used for valuing shrimp and octopus, which are both exported, are based on the
f.o.b. Sfax 1978 prices net of internal transport, freezing and packing costs
and projected to 1980 (Annex 3, Table 1). The prices used for shrimp and
octopus are D 2.696/kg and D 0.538/kg, respectively. The fact that the
expected price increases up to 1990, based on the Bank's Commodities Divi-
sion's price projections, are very slight (6% above 1978 levels) the 1980
prices are used to value these benefits over the life of the Project.
Foreign Exchange Effect
6.09      The exports of incremental shrimp and octopus production are ex-
pected to result in foreign exchange earnings of D 480,000 (US$1.20 million)
in 1984, and would decline slightly to D 469,200 (US$1.17 million) annually
by 1990. In 1984, the foreign exchange outflow to finance the Bank Loan will
be D 1.7 million (US$4.2 million). Subsequently, this will taper off to
D .47 million (US$1.2 million) in year 17 (1996), the last year of repayment.
Based on these assumptions the total estimated foreign exchange gain over the
30-year life of the Project will be D 5.1 million (US$12.7 million). The
export earnings are considered to be of secondary importance as production
generated under the Project is directed primarily towards the domestic market.
There would be additional indirect foreign exchange effects as a result of
the increased availability of good quality fish for tourist consumption,
which are considered unquantifiable.
Environmental Impact
6.10      Pollution caused by effluent of Project boats would be minor and
would have no important effect on sea water contamination. Discharge from
shore facilities in the new port sites would be minimal. Waste water would
be discharged into the sewer system built for each port site.
6.11      The existing level of contamination of the Mediterranean Sea along
the Tunisian coast, which may have a detrimental effect on the fish catch,
would be closely monitored by the Tunisian Government's Environmental Agency.
Areas with dangerous levels of sea water contamination are the Gulf of Gabes
and the area around Tunis. The Tunisian Government has recently initiated a
program to halt the discharge of industrial effluent into the Mediterranean
Sea.



- 45 -
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risk
6.12      Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which variables would
be most critical to the success of the Project. Switching values for a 10%
discount rate (the best estimate of the opportunity cost of capital in
Tunisia) were calculated for a number of variables. The switching value is
the value of the variable tested for which the Project's net present value,
calculated at 10% discount rate, is zero, or, equivalently, the value beyond
which the economic rate of return would be below 10%. Separate calculations
were made for each port and the Project as a whole (see Annex 3, Table 2).
6.13      Major variables tested were
(a)  catch rates,
(b)  port construction and maintenance costs, and
(c)  boat investment costs.
Results in general indicate little sensitivity to shortfall in Project bene-
fits or increases in Project costs. The permissible shortfalls in benefits
in the ports vary from 37% to 62%, while the total Project benefits could
fall as much as 53% without causing the economic rate of return to fall below
10%. On the cost side, the permissible increases in total costs range from
57% to 153% for the ports and 112% for the total Project. The switching
values of port construction and maintenance costs and boat investment costs,
treated separately, are higher than 100% of appraisal estimates.
6.14      The sensitivity tests indicate that the risk to the Project's
economic viability as a result of decreases in benefits or increases in costs
is minimal. Even a delay in boat construction by one year, which would
cause benefits to lag one year, would result in a total Project economic rate
of return of 23%. The main risk involved in the Project would result from
a delay in the implementation of the new organizational set-up proposed under
the Project, which would affect the supervision and control, the training
efforts and more importantly the rates of recovery on loans made to fishermen.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
(a)  the Harbor Department will be the executing agency for the
construction of the new ports and of facilities in existing
ports (para. 3.03);
(b)  the Harbor Department prior to award of the contract for the
first lot of ports will employ an engineering consultant firm
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment will be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.03);



- 46 -
(c) the Harbor Department and the Fisheries Authority will
procure all civil works and equipment in accordance with
the stipulations of paras. 2.36-2.44;
(d) the Fisheries Authority, not later than December 31, 1982,
will introduce a system of port fees based upon a study to
be undertaken in 1980 (para. 3.20); and
(e)  shore facilities will be leased to fishermen's cooperatives
and organizations or individuals or companies and operated
on a commercial basis (para. 3.20).
7.02      The Loan Agreement would be effective upon the fulfillment of the
following conditions:
(a) the legal establishment of a Fisheries Authority whose
functions and responsibilities are outlined in para 3.05
and the appointment of its Director General;
(b) Government making necessary funds available to the Fisheries
Authority to implement the Project (paras. 2.28-2.31);
(c) Government entering into a subsidiary loan agreement with
BNT (para. 2.33);
(d) BNT recruiting recovery agents according to the stipulations
of para. 3.09.
7.03      With the above assurances and agreements the proposed Project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$28.5 million to the Tunisian Government
for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.
June 6, 1979



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Tota) Project Cost and Schedule of Expenditure
Total des CoOts du Projet et Plan des Dopenses
(D'OOO)
1980                            1981                            1982                             Total
Foreign                         Foreign                         Foreign                          Foreign
Local   Exchange   Total        Local   Exchange   Total        Local   Exchange   Total         Local   Exchange   Total
I.  PORTS                                                                                                                                                                 PORTS
Sidi Daoud                                                                                                                                                               Sidi Daoud
Port Infrastructure                346        231       577          96         63      159           -          -         -         442        294      736             Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                             -         -         -           -          -         -        170         30       200         170         30       200            B3timents
Equipment                                       -         -           -          -         -         54         67       121          54         67       121            Materlel
Supervision of Construction         24         10        34           7          3       10           14         6        20          45         19        64            Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies              37         24        61          10          7        17         24         10        34          71         41       112            Alias Physiques
Subtotal                        407        265       672        113         73       186         262        113       375         782       451     1,233               Sous Total
Beni Khiar                                                                                                                                                               Beni Khiar
Port Infrastructure                549        366       915         114         76       190          -          -         -         663        442     1,105            Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                             -         -         -           -          -         -        212         37       249         212         37       249            BStiments
EquIpment                             -         -         -           -          -         -         85        103       188          85        103       188            Materlei
Supervision of Construction         39         17        56           8          3        if          18         8        26          65         28        93            Supervision de la Construction
Physicol Contingencies              59         38        97          12          8        20         31         15        46         102         61       163            Aieas Physiques
Subtotal                        647        421    1,068          134         87      221         346        163       509       1,127        671    1,798               Sous Total
Hergla                                                                                                                                                                   HerglH a
Port InfrastriKture                382        255       637          51         34       85            -         -         -         433        289       722            Infrastructure Portualre
Buildings                             -         -                     -          -         -        205         36       241         205         36       241            B;timents
Rquipment                             -         -                     -          -         -          75        91       166          75         91       166            Materiel
Supervision of Construction         26         12        38           3          2         5          17         8        25          46         22        68            Supervision de la Constructi on
Physical Contingencies              41         27        68           6          3        9          29        j3         42          76         43       119            Aleas Physiques
Subtotal                        449        294       743         60          39       99         326        148       474         835        481     1,316              Sous Total
Salakta                                                                                                                                                                  Salakta
Port Infrastructure                 38         25        63          85         56       141           -         -         -         122         82       204             Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                             -         -         -          78         14        92           -          -         -         78          14       92            Batiments
Equipment                             -         -         -          27         33        60           -          -        -          27         33        60            Materiel
Supervision of Construction           2         2         4          11          7        18           -          -        -          14          8        22            Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies Z             10         6        16          34         20        54           -          -        -          44         26        70            Aleas Physiques /a
Subtotal                         50         33        83         235        130      365            -         -         -         285        163       448              Sous Total
La Louata                                                                                                                                                                La Louata
Port Infrastructure                195        129       324         130         87       217           _          -        -         325        216       541             Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                             -        -     -          -                -         -         266        47       313         266         47       313             Batiments
Equipment                             -         -         -           -          -         -          78         96      174          78         96       174            Materiel
Supervision of Construction          13         6        19           9          4        13          21          8       29          43          18       61             Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies              21         13        34          14          9        23          36         16       52          71         38       109            Alias Pbysiques
Subtotal                        229        148       377         153        too       253        401         167      568         783        415    1,198                Sous Total
/a  Includes 25% on port infrastructure including supervision on construction and                        /a  Comprenant 25% sur  'infrastructure portuaire y compris supervision de la
lO  on building and equipment.                                                                          construction et 10% sur ies batiments et le materiel.
NOTE:  Discrepancies due to rounding                                                                    NOTE:  Les chiffres ont ete arrondis
a -4>



TUTNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Total Proiect Cost and Schedule of Expenditure
Total des Couts do Projet et Plan des D6penses
(D' 000)
1980                            1981                             1982                             Total
Foreign                         Foreign                          Foreign                          Foreign
Local   Exchange   Total        Local   Exchange   Total         Local   Exchange   Total         Local   Exchange   Total
1.  PORTS (Con'd)                                                                                                                                                                1.   PORTS (Suite)
En Najet                                                                                                                                                                          En Najet
Port Infrastructure                  523        349        872        127         84        211          -           -                  650         433      1,083               Infrastructure Fortuaire
Buildings                              -          -           -         -          -          -       248           44       292        248          44        292               Batiments
Equipment                              -          -           -         -          -          -         86         104       190         86         104        190               Nateriel
Supervision of Construction           37         15          52         9          4         13        20            9        29         66          28         94               Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies                56         36          92        13          9         22        36           16        52        105          61        166               Aleas Physiques
Subtotal                          616        400      1,016       149          97        246       390          173       563      1,155        670      1,825                  Sous Total
Mahares                                                                                                                                                                           Mahares
Port Infrastructure                1,133        756      1,889        147         98        245          -           -         -      1,280         854      2,134               Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                              -          -           -         -          -          -       244           43       287        244          43        287               batiments
Equipment                              -          -           -         -          -           -        63          76       139         63          76        139               Mat6riel
Supervision of Construction           79         34         113        11          4         15         17           8        25        107          46        153               Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies               121         79         200        15         10         25         33          13        46        169         102        271               Al.aa Physiques
Subtotal                       1,333         869      2,202       173         112        285       357          140       497      1,863      1,121       2,984                 Sous Total
Zarat                                                                                                                                                                              Zarat
Port Infrastructure                  249        166        415        131         87        218          -           -         -        380         253        633                Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                              -          -           -         -          -           -      178           31       209        178          31        209               Batiments
Equipment                              -           -          -         -          -           -        77          52       129          77         52        129               Materiel
Supervision of Construction           18           7         25         9          4          13        15           6        21          41         18          59               Supervision de la Construction           s.
Physical Contingencies                26         17          43        14         10          24        27           9        36          68         35        103               Aleas Physiques
Subtotal                          293        190        483       154         101        255       297           98       395        744         389      1,133                 Sous Total
Bou Grara                                                                                                                                                                          Bou Grara
Port Infrastructure                  280        187        467         58          38         96         -           -          -        338        225        563                Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                              -           -          -                      -         -       193          34       227         193         34        227                Batiments
Equipment                              -           -          -         -            -         -       103          68       171         103         68        171                Materiel
Supervision of Construction           20           8         28         5            1         6        17           7         24         42         16          58               Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies                30         20          50         7           4         11        31          11        42          68         35        103                Ale'as Physiques
Subtotal                          330        215        545         70          43       113       344          120       464        744         378      1,122                  Sous Total
Adjim                                                                                                                                                                              Adjim
Port Infrastructure                  142         95         237       127          85        212         -            -         -        269        18O        449                Infrastructure Portuaire
Buildings                              _     -                -         -            -         -       247          44       291         247         44        291               Bgtiments
Equipment                              -           -          -         -            -         -       103          68       171         103         68         171               Materiel
Supervision of Construction           10           4         14         9            4        13        20            8        28         39         16          55               Supervision de la Construction
Physical Contingencies                15         10          25        14            9        23        37          12        49          66         31          97               Aleas Physiques
Subtotal                          167        109        276        150          98       248       407          132       539        724         339      1,063                  Sous Total
Working Capital Shipyard /a               -          -          -         -            -         -        24            -        24         24           -         24              Roulement de Fonds des Chantiers
Navels
SUBTOTAL - PORTS               4,521       2.944      7,465     1,391          880    2.271      3.154        1,254    4,408       9,066      5.078    14,144                    SOUS TOTAL - PORTS
/a  Working capital for shipyards D 2,350 each (excludes spare parts).  See Annex 4.                                /a  D 2,350, fonds de roulement pour chaque chantier naval (non compris les
pieces do rechange). Voir Annex 4.
NOTE:  Discrepancies due to rounding                                                                                NOTE:  Les chiffres ont ete arrondis
a                                                                                             A,            t



TUNIS IA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES FEOJECT
Total Froiact Cost sod Schadulo of Expenditores
Total doe Couts do Froiet at Plan des ODePn-os
(DWOOD)
.980                          1981                           1982                           1983                           1984                           Total
-eiEn                        Foreign                        PFreign                        Foreign                        For-ign                        Foreg4
Locas     ahopgo   Total       Local    Eolhgo   Total      Locat   Exchasge   Total       Lo.al   E-choang    Total      Local   Exchange   Tota1       Local   Exchehga    atnal
I.   EQoUIPEIDIT PE EXISTING PORTS                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.   MATERIEL POUR PORTS EXISTANIT
Refaig-ratod Tracks                   -          _        _        369       451      820           -          -        -          -         -         -          -         -         -        369       451       820              C_ios Rofrig-onn
Ica Mkagin  sod Cld St-o.go                                                                                                                                                                                                         Material pour 1. fabrlcation do
Eqoipoont                            -          _        _        168       205      373           -          -        -          _         _         _          _         _         -        168       205       373              G01ce et do- Estropots Frigyrifique
Ship Repai Faacilititn                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fscillt4s de Chati-ers Nowls
- Civil works                      47         8        35          -         -        -           -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -         47         8        55                 - 0ei.. Citil.
E Eq9p .. t                         -         -         -         85       105      190           -         _         _          _         _         _          _         _                   85       105       190                  - Mnteriel
Vehiclas far Ports                    -          _       _          _         _       _            18         22       40         _         _          -          -          -       _          18         22       40               Vehilosto p.o. 1e  POtts
Soso Coot wLthoot SoparVision                                                                                                                                                                                                        Coat do B.0- sasS Ssporioi  at
and Coctigencies                   47          8       33        622       761   1,383           18         22       40          -          -        -          -          -        -        687       791    1,478                Aleas Physiqeso
Supervition of InTtoltotion /a        3          I        4         17         17      34           -          -        -          _          _        _          _          _        _         20         18        38             ESpornition d- lI stslladoo  /e
Fhyotool Contingencies La           5__          1      _           27         33      60           -          -       _          _           _       _          _           -        _         32         35       67               Alto  Physiqoos L
S.btatl                          55         10       65        666       811   1.477           18        22        40         _          -        _           -        _          -        739        844    1583                   Soot Total
111.  BOATS AhD SPARF  PARTS                                                                                                                                                                                                          III,  BARQUES ET PIECER DE RECHARGE
30 Boats of 13.00 n length          60         90      150         96       144      240         108       162       270         96        144      240          -          -        -        360        540      900                30 BarquOt do 13.80-
400 Doo.  of 11.23 a Iength         133        200      333        281        421     702         442        662    1,104        510        766    1,276        474        711    1,185      1,840      2,760    4,6G0               400 RBrq.s.  do 11.25 a
Spars pFa-   f-c Engine               7          9       16         11         17      28          16         24       40         18         27       45         13         20       33         65         97      162               Piteao do RrJungs poor Mate.rs
Subtotol                         200       299       499        388       582      970         566       848    1.414         624        937    1,561        487       731    1.218       2.265      3.397    5.662                  S.oo  Totn1
1.   TRA1NING AND INSTITUTION                                                                                                                                                                                                        IV.   FORMATION ET CREATION DE
BUILD1NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L-INSTITUTIONl
DIoosnltatioa SagCios                25         38       63          -          -       -           -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -        25         38        63              Notoors do DeUoootratis.
Equipoent for Mobile                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Materiel poor 1- Frortion des
Traisiag USits                      55         70      125          -          -       -           -          -         -         -          -        -          -          -                  35         70       125               Eqoipe. Mobils
Lasal Instroatoro asd Drivre-        42          -       42         84          -      84          84          -       84         84          -       84         84          -        84       378          -       378             Isatroot-iro Lao         *t ChauffO.re
Traintio  Aolsitoras                 13         61       76          2          7       9           9         34       43          2          7        9          _     -              -        28        109       137              Aesisto-n. so Fortion
Flloth,o.                            -         18       18          -          -       -           -          4        4          -          -        -          -          -         -          -        22        22              9000500
=c 1... l Persosnol Coat
of Prjost Entity                    58          -       58        131          -     131         187          -      187        172          -      172        158          _      158        706          -       706              Couet AdditioPas l du P-s-Pso li
Lo; Adoinistratioc RNT               28          -        28        28          -      28          32         _         32        44          -       44         52          -        52       184         _        184              Adeintstration do poSts DNT
Sobtotul                         223       187       410        245          7     252         312         38      350        302          7      309        294         _       294      1.376        239    1,615                  Sass Total
V.    STDIES AOD RESEARCH                                                                                                                                                                                                              V.   ETUDES ET REChERChES
Stody UIdar        t oJt 1rpa--tioa                                                                                                                                                                                                  Etuda sot.  Co  Avanoc poor 1.
FDoility                           101        191 /b   292                         --         -         -          -         -         -          -              -          -                 101        191 /b   292                Prrpratioo do PFF0t0
Etodi-a                              46         76      122         46         76     122           1          7         8         -         _          -        _          _         _          93       159       252              Etod.o
S.btotal                         147        267      414         46         76     122           1          7         8       _-          _                    -          -         -        194       350       544                  otss Total
Total Frojoat Cost Withoot                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cfot Total do Pro-Jt 55n.
Priar Coatitgesscio              5,146      3,707    8,853      2,736      2,356   5,092       4,051      2,169    6,220        926        944    1,870        781        731    1,512    13,640       9,908   23,548                Alts- Phyoiqons4
Frias Castiogonalas /a              415        270      685        341        274     615         857        428    1,285        210        214      424        235        220       455     2.058      1,406    3,464               Al6 . Physiqoca  j
GRASD TOTAL                        5.561      3.977    9_538      3_077      2_630   3_707       4 908      2_597    73501      1_136      1,158         2.94  1_016        931    1.967    15.698    11.314   27,012                  GRARD TOTAL
/a  Tho following  -peated inflotio  -0t10  (iE  p- e... t     ssos)  ara - seed in dotariaig prioce Lo.tlagosafr                          Ia  Lea  toss soi-sots (as pourcsnt p-r as) ant eta'  dopt4s poor dctoo1i-r Ies al&ss financiers
1p-orted Cosoonpsst                       Local C.. sI osaet                                                                                    C-oPo.ssir L portee                  Co-posasts Loosls
1980-1985              6.0%                                      6.0%                                                                            1980-1985                6.07.                             6.07
Lb  Fisasord only U0S430,000 (D 172,000) (Folo).                                                                                             /b  Finance soolonat U3$430,000 (D 172,000) (Pals).
/c  Sn ico  slking sad cold 0t01- sqsipsont nnd ahipyord.                                                                                    /c  Soc coterie1 poor f-baiaation do glScs e ntr-pots frigorifiq-ra, et chsstics vals,
NOTE:  DiEoreppcois ds tro rooddiga                                                                                                          NOTE:  Lao ahiffre  ant ate sa-oadie
MSy 1979                                                                                                                                     M1i 1979                                                                                                                 w



- 50 -
TUNISIA                               ANNEX 1
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Calendrier du Paiement
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 Accumulative Disbursements
and Quarter /                                    at End of Quarter /
BIRD Annee Fiscale                               Deblocages Accumules a
et Trimestre                                     la Fin du Trimestre
       US$ million-------
1980
March 31, 1980                                             2.3
June  30, 1980                                             4.4
1981
September 30, 1980                                         6.9
December  31, 1980                                         9.9
March 31, 1981                                            11.6
June  30, 1980                                            13.4
1982
September 30, 1981                                       14.9
December  31, 1981                                        16.4
March 31, 1982                                            17.8
June  30, 1982                                            19.3
1983
September 30, 1982                                       20.9
December 31, 1982                                         22.3
March 31, 1983                                            23.0
June  30, 1983                                           24.0
1984
September 30, 1983                                       24.6
December  31, 1983                                        25.8
March 31, 1984                                            26.6
June  30, 1984                                           27.5
1985
September 30, 1984                                       28.1
December  31, 1984                                       28.5
June 1979
Juin 1979



TUNISIA
STAFF AFFRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES FROJECT
OrcantuattOn Chalrt of Fi-herie- Authority  Ortsninrasune d- I'Aatorite des Fiches
rDirector ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ls Geira /e -Inesie.t 
D i e t u R ee nrc h ,  _oE l o t i o x ,  Isa r k e t i n g ,     V o t a t t o t a   r a n i ne r A d jriAt-
[  -                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~2 lsecrelit:ires
tions Ct S~cunit.                      tIc Rehrc, ,oRttn                                                _ete                                            _esne _      c _  e
-~~earun Deireatton fo                                                       , FEn   dttt tn
Di-eteur du Date   t                                                                                                                        - D.P-M..et Director-
RFh e u ttirS tr  SofR ty,    R    S  t          oEha                         Ddreot-e                                                              r    du    D Pa,ttn
PasSitioo ,    MoFkTtin g,     A pp PTi                                     hiO,                                                            P--tF   r a tn l,    Ad   ini   pi-  ., Pin   dc
r3 trorBtgtotenoh   Cd                   t C         rP                    n d        -        T    i                           t              Re     PoetidPitiit /
RR nha dhon   Polltion .            n       aan                            c       nn                       ra                  ee             Ad n nt ,  -t ioni  Fit n  tc
tion, Inspection,   Vaaa-o  Cites, Mrnp-ete                                  tcsa
niast i eert S ttt itti qit                                                n   e
<sHt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~re Ases dan
Di                                                                 D.ty Di-td E s  t de
PoSeting Fish     cntivE- of S    ,                                                                                        V -  ti---rch, Conto I o - FDorsasionDti -d                                 -
A  m    | | SX   l"eLb >|   | bch-reM, .o!. AP .. .. |  Et|i  -d Stti  *v-. P| ... i.                                                                                     P- |--- t Ad.N                                                , It.t
ties .   at ( s.,  ear   Man chS                               R.a  h -tt ,                                         -x prodotion
Seonore~ cc Nec.
Macoh i979                                                                                                                          - Sotercai Servicec- in SO Districts Subdivided is 
| - Policing  ishing Activi   |            l  Apprat a D  ofi. LoIanriqus.ti   at|tip
R91 ti.- f.r   es  Ger,*n          m|    rgniaton  /Prooio 
,i-hjti:.  S e-te.r,  C.. -cu-   o'                             .   -                   t  ds  Bngt.s            Ed-.ti-   .2   V   ha_   ct   /
Engins ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Srie  Es5iet Ecccs)                                            10 Acrcsdsexetrudc
P-cohes roglohuoc 23r.  Sshd  cts. I
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aece  Cnign  2dg. /udiArnis=ns



TUNIS IA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Plan de R&alization du Proiet)
COMPONENTS                                                                years/Annees                                                 COMPOSANTES
1980         1981          1982          1983          1984
1   ports                                                                                                                  Ports
Port Infrastructure                                                                                                    Infrastructure portuaire
Buildings and Equipment                                                                                                Batiments et equipements
Supervision of Construction                ____________________________________                                        Supervision de construction
2   Boats                                                                                                                  Bataux
llm boats                                  29 boats      61 boats      96 boats      111 boats    103 boats            Bateaux de 11 m
14m boats                                   5 boats       8 boats       9 boats        8 boats                         Bateaux de 14 m
3   Equipment for Existing Ports                                                                                           Eouiements dAns des ports existants
4   Training and Institution Building                                                                                      Formation et 4,eveloppement institutionel
Equipment                                                                                                              Equipement
Training and Fellowships                                                                                               Formation et Bourses
Operation of Fisheries Authority                                                                                       Operation de l'.autorite'des p'eches
and BNT Credit Service                                                                                                et Service Credit de BNT
5   Studies and Research                                                                                                   Etudes et recherche
Study Under Project Preparation Facility                                                                               Etude financee par avance pour la
Other Studies                              ____________________________________                                         preparation du ffrojet
Autres etudes
February 1979
nN>



- 53-
ANNEX 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Incremental Fish Production Under the pr*iet d!
Location                                                                                           Ysar/Annee
1           2            3           4           5            6           7            8           9           10
_--------------------_--_--_ - _  _  _  _--- -------- -- - --- ------ t --- -- - --- --- ----- - ---- --- --- ---- --- - --- ------ ---- --- -- -- -- -
FRODUCTION WI7TH FROJECT/PRODUCTION AVEC PROJET
Sidi Dsoed                                             192         334          680         815         875          913         925          925          925         925
Beni Khiar                                              88          88          230         462         700          744         806          838          838         838
s,           Hergla                                                  31          31           95         211          331         355          387         403          403         403
Balskta                                                245         315          431         534          624         644          664         674          674         674
La L..ott                                            1,070       1,094       1,139        1,208       1,276        1,289        1,305       1,313        1.313       1,313
En Najet                                             1,490       1,490        1,575       1,666       1,761        1,782        1,804       1,814        1,814       1,814
Mahares                                                823         823          968       1,163        1,362       1,402        1,450       1,474        1,474       1,474
Zlrat                                                  289         289         423          612         811          851         899          923          923         923
Bou Gbrara                                             291         291          389         535         693          726          765         784          784         784
Adjin                                                  754         754          839         998        1,169      1j200         1.241       1,262        1,262       1,262
Total                                           5.273        5.509       6.769          204       9.602        9 906      10A246       10 410      10,410       10,410
of which/dent:  Shrinp/Crevettns                       156         158          202         269         336          336         336          336          336         336
Octopus/ Poulpe                     3,226       3,226        3,226       3,226        3,226       3,226        3,226       3,226        3,226        3,226
White yish/Poisson Blanc            1,891        2,125       3,341       4,709        6,040       6,344        6,684       6,848        6,848        6,848
PRODUCTION WITHOUT PROJECT/PRODUCTION AVEC PROJET -
Sidi Daoud                                              65          68           68          68           68          70           70          70           70          72
Beni Rhisr                                              57          60          60           62          62           65          65           65           65          68
Nergla                                                  20          20           20          20           20          20           20          20           20          20
Salakta                                                162         164          L64         164         164          167          167         167          167         168
La Louata                                              913         914          909         905          901         897          893         888          884         883
En Najet                                            1,268        1,265       1,256        1,248       1,239        1,230       1,222        1,213        1,204       1,205
Maharen                                                700         704          704         709          709         713          708         710          707         706
Zarat                                                  245         250          250         250         250          250         250          250          250         258
Bee Ghrara                                            243          248         248          253         253          258         258          262         263          263
Adjin                                                  643         648          648         648         648          653         653          649          644         645
Total                                           4_316        4_341       4_327        4_327       4 314        4 323       4,306        4_294       4_274        4_288
of thich/dont: Sbrip/Crevettes                         156         162          162         164         164          167          167         169          170         176
OntopjskPoulpe                      3.216        3,227       3,216       3,213        3,203        3,203       3,189        3,179       3,161        3,165
White Fish/Poisson Blanc              944          952         949          950         947          953         950          946         943          947
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION IN PROJECT PORT BITES'-
FRODUCTION ADDITIONNRLLE DABS LBS PORTS DO PROJET          957       1_168       2_442        3_877       5_288        5_583       5.940       6_116        6_136        6_122
of which/dent:  Shrip/crevettes                        -            -4          40          105          172         169          169         167          166         160
Octopus/ Poulpe                        10           -I          10           13          23           23          37           47          65           61
White Fish/Poisson Blanc              947        1,173       2,392       3,759        5,093       5,391        5,734        5,902       5,905        5,901
INCRD{ENTAL PRODUCTION IN EXISTING PORTS/d
PRODUCTION ADDITIONSELLE DANS LES PORTS EXISTANTS
White Fish/Poi.s.n Blanc                               404       1,182        1,782       2,202       2,520        2,640        2,692       2,706        2,706       2,706
TOTAL INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION UNDER THE PROJECT/
TOTAL P         bOD UCTION ADDITION N ELLE SOUS LE PROJET    1,361   2.350        4.224       6079          808        8,223        8632       8                           828
of which/dent:  Shrimp/Crevettes                       -            -4           40         105          172         169          169         167          166         160
Octopus/ Ponlpe                        10           -I          10           13          23           23          37           47          65           61
White Pioh/Poi.sen Blanc            1,351        2,355       4,174       5,961        7,613        8,031       8,426        8,608       8,611        8,607
/a  Per asesnptione on catch rates and n-be,r of boats see Annex4.                          /a  Pour les estiations our lee taow  des captures et le nonbre de barques, voir
A-ne 4.
/b  Without the project it is assuoed that the nueber of rowing and sailing                lb  Sans le proejt, oe  estime que le aombre de bateao    a rames et a voile dininmera
boats decreases by about 20. and the enober of moter boats increases by                     d'environ 20% et le no,bre de bateaux a meteor a.gnentera d'environ 30, pendant
aboot 30% ever the life of the project.                                                     Is durse du projet.
/c  Incremental production in project sites.                                                Ic  Production additionalls  dans les sites du prejet.
/d  Existing ports where boats will be provided under the project.                           d  Forts existants qui seront pourvo de barques seen le projet.
Only white fish is caught.                                                                  Seul le poisson bl-nc est pche.
Janeary 1979



ANNEX 3
Table 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Prices of Fish
Prix Economigues du Poisson
(D/kg)
SHRIMP                                                    CREVETTE
FOB Sfax (1980 price)                  2.719         FOB Sfax (Prix en 1980)
Freezing/Packing/Ice                    .020         Congelation/Conditionnement/Glace
Internal. Transport                     .003         Transport interieur
Price at beach                         2.696         Prix sur plage
OCTOPUS                                                   POULPR
FOB Sfax (1980 price)                   .562         FOB Sfax (Prix en 1980)
Freezing/Packing/Ice                    .020         Congelation/Conditionnement/Glace
Internal Transport                      .004         Transport interieur
Price at beach                          .538         Prix sur plage
WHITE FISH                                                POISSON BLANC
Average Retail Price (1980)             .780         Prix de detail moyen (1980)
Retailer's costs /a                     .047         Coufts des Detaillants
Wholesaler's costs /a                   .064         Co-uts des Grossistes
Net Retail Price                        .669         Prix de detail net
/a   Included are costs of collecting, packag-    /a   Les frais pour collection, condi-
ing, transport and taxes.  The taxes                 tionnement, transport at taxes sont
charged by the town corporation and state            inclus.  Les taxes chargees par la
are fees for services rendered i.e. use              municipalite et par l1etat repre-
of facilities at the market place and                sentent des charges pour l'utilisa-
are therefore included as economic costs.            tion du marche et par consequant
sont inclus comme frais economiques.
January 1979



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Year
1         2         3         4         5          6         7         8         9         10      11 - 22   23 - 30
------------------------------------------- (Dinars '000) ------------____________________________________________
Project Benefits
Value of Fish (White Fish,           853      1,605     3,151     4,935     6,772     7,524      8,242     8,791     9,197      9,591    13,800    13,964
Shrimp and Octopus)
Residual Value of Boats/$             -          -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -        182        70
Project Benefit Total                    853     1X605     3,151     4X935     6,772     7,524      8_242     8 791     9_197      9J591    13982     14034
Project Costs
Investments
Ports                           7,762      2,297     3,585        -    -         -          -         -         -         -          -              -
Boats/a                           328       707      1,059     1,193     1,052        21         21        21        21         21       488       154
Spare Parts for Engines            12         24        35        39        30         -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Equipment for Existing Ports       55        739        26                       -          -         -         -         -               -         -
Training and Installation
Building/b                      456        304       397       345       322       322        322       322       322        322       322       322
Studies and Research              415        122         8             -         -               -         -         -          -         -         -
Investments Subtotal               9,028      4,193     5.110     1,577     1 404        343       343       343       343        343       810       476
Operating Costs
Ports                              92        194       242       365       216        216       216       216       216        241       300       216
Botts                             129       404        832     1,338     1,789     1.887      1.964     1,966     1,982     2,000      2.000     2.000
Operating Cost Subtotal               221       598    1,074      1,703     2 005      2.103     2.180     2,182     2,198      2.241     2,300      2_216
Project Costs Total                    9,249     4.791     6,184     3,280      3.409     2.446     2,523     2.525      2,541     2.584     3,110      2_692
Project Net Benefits                 -8,396    -3,186    -3,033      1,655      3,363     5,078     5,719     6,266      6,656     7,007    10,872    11,342
Economic Rate of Return = 27%
/a  Engines replaced every 10 years - residual value is 20% of engine costs; Boats replaced every 15 years - residual value is 60% of                                    (|
engine costs and 30X of the oosts of the rest of the boat.
/b Includes operating costs of local instructors and administration of BNT.
April 1979



- 56 -
TUNISIA
ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE                          TI5Tae
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return Analysis Summary
Resume de l'Analyse du Taux de Rentabilite EconomEque
Economic    ERR with Delay in      Net Present      SwzLching Values I
Rate of    Boat Construction     Value at 10%      Catch/         Total
-Return/       One Year I.       Discount Rate/   Boat             Li/ soats /
Taux de Ren-             a Cone-    Valeur presente   Prise           Z:oGts
tabiliteeeco-  struction des Bar-   nette a 10% taux  Barque          Totanx
nomique.       ques deferee par 1 an  d'Escompte
_______________ x ________-----  --D'OOOZNW-----  -------   -  -----
Total Project           27               23               41,211            -53          +112   Total du Projet
Ports                                                                                           Ports
SIDI DAOUD         35               27                4,780            -62          +150
BENI KHIAR         21               18                2,931            -48          + 92
HERGLA             17               15                1,155            -37          +.57
SALAKTA/d          34               26                1,863            -61          +152
LA LOUATA          29               23                2,364            -60          +150
EN NAJET           24               20                2,994            -54          +119
MAHARES            17               15                2,559            -37          + 57
ZARAT              29               23                3,416            -57          +132
BOU GRARA          25               21                2,412            -52          +106
ADJIM              35               26                3,418            -61          +153
/a  Causes a resulting lag in benefits by one year.
Lb  The percentage change which reduces the net present value to zero at the
opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
/c  Includes a resulting decrease in 7% of boat operating costs which are directly
related to catch rates.
/d Only production from new boats is considered as a port already exists and it is
assumed that there would be no incremental production from existing fleet.
/a  Il en resulte un retard des benefices d'un an.
/b  Change en pourcentage qui reduit la valeur presente nette a zero, le cout d'opportunite du capital
giant 10%.
/c Y compris un decroissement de 7% de frais d'exploitation en relation directe avec lea prises.
/d  Uniquement la production des nouvelles barques est prise en consideration etant donne que le port
existe dgjg et sous l'hypothase qu'aucune production additionnelle provient de la flotte existante.
February 1979



57 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Fisheries Subsector in Tunisia
Bilan d'Activites 1977 et Programme 1978 - Republique Tunisienne,
Ministere de l'Agriculture, Direction des Peches (January 1978)
Etude sur le Developpement de la Peche - Centre National d'Etudes
Industrielles (November 1977)
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Etude de Developpement Integre de Centres de Peche Cotiere - CEGOS,
Tunisie (May 1976)
Draft Report of the Second Fisheries Project Identification Mission -
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (August 1976)
Preparation Progress Reports - FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(April 1978 and July 1978)
Etude des Ports de Peche Cotiere - S.G.T.E. Societe Generale de
Techniques et d'Etudes (February 1978)
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables and Designs Prepared by the Bank Staff
or its Consultants, Including Materials Needed for Implementation
Appendix
Cl. Detailed Data on Present and Projected Production,
Number of Boats, Number of Fishermen, Fishing
Days and Phasing of Project Boats ....      .............  1
C2. Detailed Data on Sites Considered, Site Description,
Hydraulic Studies, Unit Costs and Port Investment
Costs   ..............................................     2
C3. Detailed Data on Investment Costs for Equipment,
Boats, Spare Parts and Working Capital for
Shipyards, and on Taxes and Foreign Exchange
Components   ........................................      3



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Appendix
C4. Detailed Data on Organization of Fisheries
Authority and ONP, on Incremental Personnel
Cost for Fisheries Authority, Training, and
BNT and on Cost of Technical Assistance for
Training and Studies. 
C5. Detailed Data on Operating Cost of Ports and
Shipyards   ......................................    5
C6.  Detailed Data on BNT's Finance and Organization ..      6
C7. Detailed Data on Production, Operating Cost and
Sales  of  Project  Boats   .........................  7
C8. Detailed Data on Consumption, Exports,
Distribution of and Demand for Fish .... ........     8
C9. Terms of Reference for Studies for the Expansion
of Tabarka and Kelibia Harbors ....   .............   9



I BRD 14165
8-    7  . ;7    ca' 7   -   -  ; /  0 wU  0 }                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1979
-   <,/sc ;;>9DJ . - AMe5yterroneon x Sea
$01"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
MBAR~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~I
Gulf o  Ho.nmame
36~~~~~~~                                                                                                                         6
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ALGERIA                                                                                                                               0
.  -   '  t  i S -   4tw              h t-            /       p     Bon~~~~~~~~~~~4 L Loat
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                                                                              ttN}  T  i! jvo A
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$d Mwee   tAtcp
SFAXI        K!RKENNAH
TUNISIA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Major fishery harbors          ;r SeKhedim a
4'Coastal fishery hairbors aoid landing sites
h1-erglia Sites selected for development 
-        .                              -                  ii Lagoons
50 -- Depth contors                                           of meters                              34'
uSOUSS    Ho  S
Provincial boundaries
34'                     - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~International boundaries                                        DJERSA I AN
K6 ('ota,.
TIWK                                               wAD
..   Secsheia~~~~ ~~~~~~~ .                  . T1JIOi
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o GERr                                                    ZARZIS5
7 to
-TU   lS~A  -         -     Thi drap  has  h d 5y the
'N\                                  th  cofnec  at heFA readrs o  -                                                   IKat
ALGERSA  N                           The~~~~~~~~~~~~.- dennatettor .se had th.--p 
/             do -t  ipy,   - th. pac of (he
Wed fseay anrbors afld Iiat si any  -
/ I,4Cg!r jSditesin the frdeelomtatis of        5      20    40 cf          80     0          (6UWI
o a ptanc   fth h-aci-
c               50                         D      e     p      t      h           c     o     ntouse eters e , 



I



IBRD 14166
8-  10                                          12'                MARCH 1979
Moediterranean             Sea
-3g'                                                       NOR=75  _~  
COAsr\| 
LA GALITE IL
X                   ~~~~~GULF OF TIN /SS
/H~~~~~~~~~~Sd D ocud
TNS  Tunis
T_Srka                    TUNISA
.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ensi 3                                        \r
!    SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT                             Gulf of
Hammornoto
Annual Wind Distribution   Hero a                                  GU1FOF
Off Tunisian Coast                                             HAMMAM,T                             36'
36 ~ ~~~                                                                So5usse_17j
4-10 11-16 17-27 >28Knots
)  %calm   2-3  4  5-6  7-12 Beaufort
ALGERIA                             0%1%                     20%                    oSl
I                     Scale of Wind Roses    
./   [Hierjla Sites selected for development                  toL]9H
!  _ _., International boundaries
1                                                         , iax -g  EAttaya
,i A                                                                    KERKENNAH IS.
La Skirro
GJlf of  Gabes             GZ   F3-
34'  0           50           100          150         200                                 GAES
_____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ ___-.L.__     G abes
Kilometers
Th,s map has b-en preptred by the Warld ban-s staff e-c,U-/oOYf for she con VenecO,
\   of the readers of the repon to aI ,h t  es tarheO  The d -nonr,ns   sed and the
nr,ress   on thr n>/pdo - not np/r, on -  h -e parof the WorldRankand C- a d  
canoe of-srrcn   ,o,    .ha rI
~~~~ ~~Boo Grcorat
Srordinia       IY            , GR     E       Y ' IT
_  ; S           ~~~~~~Sicily       *ti ' -   S
JTUNISIA   'MALTA                     .                                                t
'  1,edoiEferr'TfFftat,ean   Sea7
-A'wG6fttA    |  t m   X  ~~n Kr                                       t             fLI|BYfA
ALGERtA
T   L ttYf              ~RM&COF                                                        t
_   , /,  _L fat
t~~~~~~~.~P 






MEPIJU=9N .AN                                                                                                                                                                                                         T U N I S I A
,- -    TUNIS   g    |                                                                                                                                                                              SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
PROPOSED PORT LAYOUT - HERGLA
Typical Design for Enclosed Harbor, NE Tunisia
Lb                                        3oi                                h         Adm,-t  mt_                                                                                                                                       _j
;0; , ) ) }FFq j;F~~~~~~~~~~~.id,i ,g                                                                  be  ;.gtl.,7 254y  okso aerk' i
Mede,,r'F rlI rre~tes    .
ipossible future                Workshop
t-          \~ )1                                                                                                                       CDf LIBYA  SOei0r -   -. B2m-  o-3t- r.
r   ,:    w   -               E  m    ; -                    sarrpa~~~~~~~~ett fra ba S  toervie deton  Jetties ort llme booats. 
E:::> 66. ~       ~                          W.'k,th.
C~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~ Iotpr boots fceveren-e
pitible- futvr.
bfayndwris show on dhz mata de nSt imptr. (m dhe part of the Wtold bark Md ttS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     Popsedpor Iryot froor inre
ttwlsttf Frb rmr judtynt mt ed the letwl stJetty  .,                            sey,,ime jetty :ettia       f.r I Im bot
j~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Acs   .n-nGavri of yrc btun l                                                                                                                                                    XjRckl
4   401    I  1  ri~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   METERS1,F"
21 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1
the mop hot Met p,op~~rrithY rho World Prey ataft eedoOoiOtp for rho 0orn..oeieoo'e
itt tsr r.attoit of the report to iohioh flit attached The de,ootetat,Onriistd and the10  40  1
hntodritthth ot ti "Io  W,dontiayotrh p,,k t e.ft  Wtf  ehnd toWreck\\                                                                                                                                                                                                  Z0
oft,tel.an tdtttatt 0 he ,rhosrtSf any toi-ood or, any:Iw eos.dr-oIiet or 
aCyeptdt o ttf tush ooodarci






IBRD 14169
MARCH 1979
T U N I S I A_|
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
PROPOSED PORT LAYOUT - ADJIM
Typical Design for Port Extension
~~~~~~~  -I-> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~lp.y-,o
F.r ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      -r
ter.,\/                                        <                           \\,\                                                                                                                                     _ 
n_0 a                         $P                                                                        ,,-                                                                :     *
w  to0                                                   N                                          7% nouns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UNI     
>,~~~~~~~~~~c                           p' 5%               ,                                                                                                                                    1  
*.  \9'                                                                                10  20  30   0
Wp~ ~  ~ ~ ~~' Id' d0kt                                                                                                                                                                                                7]s Mehnia enIern Ih y1 2     
checonyenih~~~~~~~~6    -tws<hrodnf .- i   IB  
th'             -Anm             tNo~                                     200 tNabfCe   ,        
EhAed n0mrIOy>                                                                                      0'                                                                                                  0' MEDITERRANEAN'SEA.0I
Wpf d B-Vk -ndItef -lN-0h f an
Ferr d-                             .        Ad                                                                                  -                                                                                              UNI
or~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~w Aceec                                                    A-                                                  port layoutie  show in red                         '
b  -    ;~--  PNn  
-y y-          --- ---Rcklder-                                                                                                                                                                                     ~



I
I



IBRD 14170
  10                                               12'                 MARCH 1979
1Med,terrocaj:3
-38-                                                        \,k,                                                                                 38-
LA GAtITE 1.
Sidi Deou
barka                      TUNIS   2 
_j ,.,"',"'"'''""'-''5TUNISIA/
:- -  r. SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Ben! Kf,iar
*W  2      Annual Wave Distribution
Off Tunisian Coast                             H 'm mf
:   -   -   ;   --                                    I      t/~~~~~~~~ammomet
-.:  ::-  ;,(   > _   _                    e                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36'-
-  ec:-m 0-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 >4                  Sousse
1                              Meters
0%       10%       20%       30%
I,._4t   1A.     ,,,I,,           I        J4 L   LI
'fALGERIA                               Scale of W.ve Roses
Frequency of occurence                               Soc                               T
F,er=io Sites selected for development                    ca Louoto7
.  . --.-. International boundaries
; . JSfox                                                                              I <Attaoy
:  '   -  )   I                                          g       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~KERKENNAH 15.
-~~~~~~~II- --,oren
. .    -                                                   0 iLo Slirra
~34'  0            50            l00           150          200                                                                                  34-
'&o                4               Gabes
Kilometers
,   Th-s mp  b-e poaps bdy bte Woa Wldrs - senf a-ftcWf tstcii,aic, A.jimn
aof rereuaders- t the, epo .to ,C,h Ttsatthes Thedninaion so.e-andthe W    ,     pER8A I.
.   .fb, musteo.s snrro  ree,0t n' n. '   enad,- Zf la r ot f d 
bacceptnce of shch bo-nda-es
- ,    30                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~110  |BoU Grara r4ff
IMALTA               ,                                   Bov Gruort
Medtirerronean    $,co
itLGERiA        )j . -               =          > ~          <~                                            1  -   0 - . L I              :   - fBYA
. - ia;  ,  ., -...                                                                                               ..-
-  i  \. :E 1 tXi fl-.
i'              1'.-'   :      ____________                                                                  /\      ft          -   



