Docume  of
The World Bank
FOR oFFIcL4L USE ONLY
Report No. P-4486-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 15.4 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
March 18, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used oy recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Sri Lankan Rupee
US$l.OO          =  SL Rs 27.4
SL Re           =  US$0.0365
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARP    -   Council of Agricultural Research Policy
DOA     -   Department of Agriculture
FRC     -   Federal Republic of Germany
ISNAR   -   International Service for National Aggricultural Research
MADR    -   Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
HOFP    -   Ministry Gf Finance and Planning
NAFNS   -   National Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Strategy
NARP    -   NationaL Agricultural Research Plan
NARESA  -   Natural Resources, Energy & Science Authority
PCC     -   Project Coordination Committee
PMU     -   Project Management Unit
RRC     -   Regional Research Center
RTWG    -   Regional Technical Working Group
T&V     -   Training and Visit System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:          SDR 15.4 Million (US$18.6 million equivalent)
Tenms:           Standard
Project         The proposed project seeks to raise farmers' incomes by
Description:  increasing agriculturaL production through development of
better varieties, and improving husbandry practices and
farming systems. The principal elements of the project would
comprise: (a) establishment of a Council oE Agricultural
Research Policy (CARP) with appropriate authority to
formulate, through a National Agricultural Research Plan,
an overalL strategy for research and to set national research
policy and priorities for allocation of resources, and
recommend allocation of funds for phased implementation
of research programs; (b) provision of infrastructure,
equipment, machinery and vehicles at research institutions;
(c) introduction of a contract research program; (d) staff
development and technical assistance; (e) estabLishment of
a research planning ceLl and project management unit;
(f) strengthening of research-extension linkages; and
(g) provision of incremental staff and operating costs.
The National Agricultural Research Plan prepared under the
project would be updated from time to time. Annual budget
allocations would be reviewed in relation to annual research
programs consistent with this plan.
Benefits:       The major benefit would be the contribution to government's
agricuLtural developmenc goals through better quality
solutions to farmers problems. The institution building
would improve the cost effectiveness of the research system.
Risks:          A major risk is that the vested interests of the research
institutions working under different ministries may come
in the way of efficient implementation of the proposed
organizational changes. This would be Largely overcome by
the fact these changes have been initiated and strongly
supported by the Government, research community, and
administrators.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



l-ii
Estimated Cost: /1
US$ Million Equivalent
Local      Foreign      Total
Civil Works                          3.4          1.8         5.2
Vehicles and Equipment               0.4          2.4         2.8
Fellowships and Training             0.2          3.6         3.8
Technical Assistance                 0.1          0.6         0.7
Contract Research                    3.0          1.4         4.4
Incremental Staff                    1.5            -         1.5
Incremental Operating                0.5          0.2         0.7
Base Cost                        9.1         10.0        19.1
Physical Contingencies               0.4          0.5         0.9
Price Contingencies                  3.6          2.9         6.5
Total Cost                      13.1         13.4        26.5
Financing Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                          5.9       12.7         18.6
FRG                          0.1        0.7          0.8
GOSL                         7.1           -         7.1
Total                       13.1        13.4        26.5
Estimated Disbursement:
US$ Million Equivalent
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY96   FY97
Annual          0.1    0.9    1.0    2.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    1.6    1.0
Cumulative      0.1    1.0    2.0    4.0    7.0   10.0   13.0   16.0   17.6   18.6
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   6217-CE dated March 4, 1987
map:                 IBRD-19616
/1 Including taxes and duties of about US$0.8 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
i.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic SociaList Republic of Sri Lanka for
SDR 15.4 million (US$18.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance an agricultural research project. The Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG) would provide about US$0.8 million equivalent on a grant basis for
technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka:  Current Economic
Situation and Outlookt' (Report No. 6176-CE, dated May 13, 1986) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 16, 1986. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      At independence in 1948, Sri Lanka was one of the most affluent
developing countries in Asia. Its per capita GDP was equivalent to that of
Korea while the school enrollment ratio, adult literacy ratio, and life
expectancy at birth, were comparable to those of the most-developed Asian
countries. At the root of Sri Lanka's relatively high income levels and high
standards of living was a highly productive export sector (tea, rubber and
coconut); food distribution programs; and social services designed to reach
even the poorest segments of society.
4.      Shortly after independence, the Government took the lead in the
development process. Industrialization based on import substitution was seen
as the country's major priority and dictated the course of policies until
1977. To accelerate the process of industrialization, the Government set
up enterprises to produce a wide range of basic inputs and consumer goods.
Investments in industry were financed through taxation of agriculture, both
explicitly, through export taxes and, implicitly, through a chtonic over-
valuation of the exchange rate, price controls on agricultural products, and
preferential allocations of foreign exchange to industry. The more general
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from the Ninth Power Project
President's Report (No. P-4389-CE, dated September 24, 1986).



-2-
preferential allocations of foreign exchange to industry. The more general
objective of allocating resources according to Covernment-established
priorities led to numerous economic regulations and direct state interven-
tions. Economic regulations were particularly restrictive in the foreign
sector where recurrent shortages of foreign exchange led over time to the
development of a complex system of quota restrictions, import prohibitions,
multiple exchange rates, and foreign exchange controls. Direct state inter-
ventions took place through the creation of several public enterprises in a
wide range of sectors. In addition to industry, the state became a major
producer and employer in such fields as transport, banking and insurance,
internal and externaL trade. The large private estates producing over half
of the tea crop and a substantial portion of the rubber and coconut were
nationalized. Gradually, the role of market forces in the economy became
negligible and the roLe of the state aLl-pervasive.
5.      By the mid 1970s, the cost of these policies became evident, as
Sri Lanka's economic performance lagged behind that of other Asian countries
and the country began to lose the gains it had made in terms of living stand-
ards. First, the taxation of agriculture led to a stagnation of agricultural
exports and to a decline in per capita food production (of 15% between 1960
and 1976) while the newly created industrial sector, then responsible for 201
of CDP, was heavily dependent on imported equipment, spare parts and inputs.
Shortages of foreign exchange became a chronic problem. Second, the welfare
and social services designed when the economy was thriving, became an enor-
mous burden in the context of a sluggish economy. In 1976, direct food
subsidies accounted for 3% of GDP and 17% of government expenditures.
Finally, the private sector was crowded out by the public sector enterprises.
These enterprises benefited from protection from imports, along with fiscal
and credit advantages that diverted resources awcy from the private sector
and retarded its development.
6.      A drastic reversal in policies took place in 1977 when the new
Covernment changed the philosophy of economic management that for two decades
had dominated decision making. The new Government's policy was to Limit the
role of the state in the economy and increase that of the private sector,
and, more generally, to increase the role of market forces in the allocation
of resources. Sweeping deregulations affected all sectors of the economy.
Price controls were eliminated, barriers to entry in industry were removed,
foreign investment was encouraged; domestic trade was opened to the private
sector and financial markets were liberalized. Deregulation was particularly
noteworthy in the foreign sector. Quota restrictions were replaced by
tariffs, the multiple exchange rate system was replaced by a managed float,
the new exchange rate was set at a realistic level, and controls on foreign
exchange transactions were eased considerably.
7.      The new policies brought about a remarkable improvement in economic
performance. The GDP growth rate, at only 3% per annum during 1970-77,
increased to close to 7Z in 1978-80 and remained at 5% ir. 1981-86. The



-3-
liberalization of prices in agriculture and the removal of barriers restrict-
ing che entry of private traders is one of the main factors explaining
Sri Lankat. success in reducing imports of rice by increasing domestic
production. Rice production grew at over 5% per annum during 1978-86. Rice
imports, which were over 30% of rice consumption during 1970-77, declined
gradually to less than 5% in 1985-86. The liberalization of the external
sector led to a diversification of the sources of Sri Lanka foreign exchange
earnings. Tourism, also encouraged by generous tax incentives, boomed.
Tourist arrivals increased from 150,000 in 1977 to 400,000 in 1982; a 20%
annual growth rate in real terms. However, due to the ethnic disturbances
that began in 1983, arrivals have declined to 320,000 in 1983/84 and 240,000
in 1985/86. A second new source of foreign exchange earnings were exports of
garments which increased from a negligible amount prior to liberalization in
1977, to US$300 million in 1986, out of total exports of US$1.4 billion.
8.      The international aid community strongly supported the 1977 economic
liberalization. Aid commitments doubled after 1977 and were, on the average,
at about 12% of CDP in 1978-86. Moreover, the reestablishment of Sri Lanka's
credit standing in international capital markets after 1977 allowed the
country to borrow on commercial terms in the early 1980s. This increased
access to foreign savings made possible the major expansion in investment
levels which took place since 1977. Total domestic investment as a share of
CDP increased from 142 in 1977 to 22% in 1978/79, 34% in 1980, and 28% during
1981-86. The share of public investment in GDP jumped from 6% in 1977 to an
average of 14% in 1978/79 and a peak of 21% in 1980. The public investment
program centered on three major initiatives: (a) accelerated implementation
of the Mahaweli Canga Development Program, the largest multipurpose river
basin development program ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (b) establishment of
a free trade zone to attract foreign investors; and (c) institution of a
massive housing and urban renewal program focusing mainly in the Colombo
metropolitan region, including the construction of a new capital complex at
Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. Private investment concentrated in agriculture
in response to the improved incentive framework; in the financial sector,
where the new more liberal economic regime attracted numerous foreign banks;
in the transport sector, which had for long been a state monopoly; and in the
establishment of industries in the free trade zone.
9.      Macroeconomic stability, however, suffered during this process.  With
foreign savings easily available, the domestic resource mobilization effort
slackened. The overall public sector deficit accounted for some 15% of GDP,
on the average, during 1978-85, and the exchange rate tended to appreciate,
leading to recurrent large current account deficits in the balance of pay-
ments (11%, on the average during 1978-86) and to an increase in the foreign
debt (including short-term debt, private non-guaranteed debt, and the IMF),
from US$1.4 billion in 1978, to US$3.7 billion in 1986. The debt service
ratio increased from 13% in 1978 to 30X by the mid-19BOs. Additional pres-
sures have been put on the economy by the ethnic conflict which has been
escalating since 1983. The increased military expenditures that the conflict



-4-
has required have put new claims on the budget and made it more difficult to
increase the level of domestic savings.
10.     In addition to the macroeconomic imbalances, the process of
liberalization has had two other shortcomings. First, liberalization did not
reach the public sector enterprises. While, since 1977, some few chronicaLly
loss-making public enterprises have been closed down, the bulk of pubLic
sector enterprises has remained untouched and continues to be a burden on the
economy. Second, the development of an export industry has been limited to
garmencs while, because of relatively high levels of protection, the rest of
the industrial sector has been encouraged to produce for the domestic market
rather than for exports.
11.     Achieving a better balance between investment and savings and
increasing public sector enterprise efficiency and the competitiveness of
the industrial sector are the prime policy objectives for Sri Lanka. To
improve the balance between investment and savings, the Government will need
to reduce the public sector deficit through a combination of increased
revenues, and reduced current and capital expenditures. Improving the com-
petitiveness of public sector enterprises is a complex and important task
which will require a profound reform of existing institutions. Public sector
enterprises account for some 30X of CDP, and are a heavy burden on the
economy because of high protection from external competition, administered
prices for their products, and their monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic
position. Increasing the competitiveness of the industrial sector will
require a further restructuring of the economy towards exports rather than
producing for the very limited domestic market and the adoption of a more
flexible foreign exchange poLicy.
12.     The Government has recently taken, or ahnounced its intention to
take, some of the actions indicated above. First, the 1987 budget aims at
reducing the fiscal deficit from the chronically high levels that have been
experienced since 1977 to around 10% of GDP. Measures to achieve this objec-
tive include higher levels of taxation and a reduction of transfers to inef-
ficient public sector enterprises. Public investment has already been
reduced in relation to the high levels it had reached in the early 1980s and
the current public investment program is being reviewed in order to scale it
down further. Moreover, the fiscal situation is benefiting from the recent
decline in oil prices as these declines are not being passed an to the con-
sumers. Second, an extensive study of the public sector enterprises has
recently begun, with a view to identifying measures leading to an increase in
their efficiency. Finally, a first revision of the tariff system took place
in late 1984, where disparities in effective protection were substantially
reduced and a new Presidential Tariff Commission is now in charge of review-
ing the existing tariff system and making recommendations for further
improvements. Furthermore, foreign exchange policy has become more flexible
and the domestic currency was devalued in the recent past by some 15X in real
terms.



-5-
13.     At the end of 1986, the external public debt outstanding and dis-
bursed stood at an estimated US$3.7 billion (para 9), over 70% of which is on
concessional terms. The debt service ratio has been increasing in the 1980s
and was at 30% in 1986 (including IMF charges and repurchases). Assuming
that the Government's efforts to contain the budget deficit and imports in
the forthcoming years are successful, the current account deficit should
decline to approximately 5 towards the end of the decade, and the debt
service ratio, after temporarily rising to 32% in 1987 because of existing
debt repayment commitments, should begin to decline from 1988 onwards. None-
theLess, the Government will need to monitor carefully the level and terms of
external borrowing to ensure that the country maintains a satisfactory exter-
nal payments position.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, and up to
September 30, 1986, the WorLd Bank had approved 12 loans totalling
US$181.2 milLion (net of cancellations) and 41 credits totalling
US$830.9 milLion (net of cancellations) in support of 50 projects. About 53X
of World Bank assistance has been for agriculture (irrigation, tree crops,
and rural and dairy development), 17Z for power, 10% for transportation, and
the remaining 20% among development finance company operations, a program
credit (involving the import of raw materiaLs for industry), water supply,
construction industry training, and telecommunications. Eight loans and 16
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of
World Bank Group operations as of Septenber 30, 1986.
15.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC had a total investment of US$2.88 million
equivalent in equity and US$35.84 million equivalent in loans as of
September 30, 1986. Investments have been made so far in two textiles
industries, one polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company,
one hotel, and two IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the
government-owned Bank of Sri Lanka for term loans to medium-sized industries.
16.     A central element of the World Bank Group's current strategy in
Sri Lanka is the achievement of a more sustainable balance-of-payments posi-
tion in the medium term through export promotion and import substitution in
viable economic activities. The Bank Group's macroeconomic and sectoral
analyses of the Sri Lankan economy indicate that achieving and maintaining
external equilibrium in the context of a growing economy require major policy
changes in several areas: investment priorities should be assessed more
carefully than in the past; the system of economic incentives should become
more consistent; the role of the public sector in manufacturing activities
sbould be limited to clearly established priority areas; and cost recovery



-6-
should be seen as complementary to, rather than conflicting with, greater
equity in distribution.
17.     Within the above framework, the Bank's lending program has been
concentrating resources on directLy productive sectors, such as agriculture
and industry, and in support of energy and transport infrastructure. In
agriculture, Bank Group strategy had given until recently the highest
priority to the expansion of paddy production and to rehabiLitation of the
vital tree crops subsector, activities in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage. While these activities will retain their importance, the probable
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice in the near future and the uncertain
prospects of tree crops in international markets suggest that the lending
program shouLd extend its support in the future also to new programs aimed at
expanding the production of other important agricultural products for local
consumption and, possibly, local processing for exports.
18.     The WorLd Bank has also provided financing for a broad range of
large-, medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the
private sector, through support of industrial development finance institu-
tions. Future leL.ding in the sector would continue this support, focusing on
firms with export potential. It wouLd also capitalize on the conclusions of
technical assistance financed through past operations to provide support for
improvement in trade and incentive policies, and for increasing the
efficiency of public enterprises, in the context of one or more sectoral
operations.
19.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure and
expand the capacity of existing capital stock by high priority new invest-
ments is well placed and necessary in order to support expanded economic
activity, particularly in the private sector. Major elements of the lending
program would be directed at heLping to meet the energy needs of the economy
and at easing transport bottlenecks. The World Bank has provided financing
to a number of power projects for generation, transmission and distribution.
The thrust of future operations would be decided on the basis of a comprehen-
sive assessment of investment needs in alL three areas. However, given that
the majority of high yielding sources of energy in Sri Lanka have been util-
ized already, it is envisaged that the future program would accord relative
priority to energy conservation rather than generation, through both required
investments and policy measures. The old and inefficient power distribution
system wouLd be rehabilitated to reduce system losses; small but significant
improvements in energy conservation would be undertaken in large energy
consuming industrial/commercial units; and a study is underway to recommend
measures to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large con-
sumer of commercial energy in Sri Lanka. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation and upgrading of the road network,
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and .mproving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.



-7-
20.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planning and implementation
levels, have been strained by the recent rapid expansion of public invest-
ment. Continuing emphasis would be placed on project components supporting
institution building, human resources development, business and industrial
management, and public administration.
21.     The World Bank's development of a coherent lending program for
Sri Lanka, and its continuous dialogue regarding the specific elements of the
program and policies necessary for increasing the program's effectiveness,
have been accompanied by firm support for a substantial transfer of resources
to Sri Lanka. The main grounds for this support have been the need to offset
the deterioration in the world trade environment; the achievement of a high
and sustained growth rate; and the tightness of the Government's budgetary
situation as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on domestic resources.
22.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1986, accounted Ear an
estimated 14% (IBRD, 1.22; IDA, 12.8%) of Sri Lanka's total debt (including
private non-guaranteed and short-term debt, and IMF) outstanding and dis-
bursed and 3.5% of the total debt service (including interest on short-term
debt and IMF charges).
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN SRI LANKA
General
23.     Real agricultural growth averaged 2.8% per annum between 1960 and
1982, and the contribution of agriculture, forestry and fisheries to total
CDP declined from 38% in 1960 to 28% in 1984. Still, agriculture remains by
far the single most important source of income and employment (2.2 million
farmers, or 461 of the labor force). The sector also contributes greatly to
both export earnings and government revenue.
24.     Although consistentiy positive, agricultural growth has fluctuated
over time, thus accounting in considerable measure for fluctuations in over-
aLl GDP growth. To a significant extent, these fluctuations were due to
unequaL growth performance of the sector's main components since the 1960s.
Paddy production accelerated from an average annual rate of 1.51 during the
first half of the decade to 9.7% during the second half. Performance in the
tree crop subsector, on the other hand, deteriorated sharply in the late
19709. Following new economic policies in 1977, agricultural growth
accelerated to about 4.4Z per annum during 1977-82, despite continuing slug-
gishness in the tree crop subsector. Growth was particularly pronounced in
paddy production, which rose from about 1.7 million tons in 1977 to nearly
2.5 million tons in 1983, before suffering a weather induced setback to
2.4 million tons in 1984. There has been little diversification away from
the four main crops (paddy, tea, rubber, and coconut), leaving the economy



-8-
vulnerable to changes in their international prices. The need for such
diversification for making more efficient and productive use of the country's
agriculturaL resources is increasingly more evident. The principal reasons
impeding faster growth of products other than paddy and traditional tree
crops have been the concentration of production incentives on paddy and the
absence of technical packages tested for their economic feasibility.
Agricultural Research
25.     Research activities in Sri Lanka have developed over time in a very
uncoordinated manner. As a result; research is fragmented with inadequate
linkages within ministries and between ministries and research institutions.
A major constraint in the research system is the absence of a mechanism for
coordinating and consolidating research efforts, identifying national
research needs, and establishing priorities consistent with needs. Research
information is not colLated, analyzed, and interpreted in a manner that
enables it to reach the levels where decisions are made on priorities and on
appropriation of funds. In many institutions, research is not farmer
oriented and there are no micro-economic studies to show the impact of
improved technologies on farmers' fields. Interaction between departmental
secretaries and directors of research institutes or departments is mainly
concerned with financial and administrative matters, and little time is spent
on review of research progress and priorities. Similarly, decisions on
programs and budget are not effectively transmitted to scientists. Until
recently, research programs have been concentrated on rice, tea, rubber, and
coconuts. In the case of rice, the research efforts have produced tangible
results, contributing to Sri Lanka achieving near self-sufficiency. The
impact of research on tea, rubber and coconut has been mixed and only a few
technical recommendations have been developed to resolve field problems of
smallhoLders. Little effort has been made to consider commodities as com-
ponents of farming systems or to address Livestock management as an integral
part of farming activities. In addition to the above, research infrastruc-
ture is weak, the available manpower is not well trained, and research
operating funds are inadequate.
26.     ResponsibiLity for agricultural research lies with 15 research
institutions, under 7 ministries and the Office of the President. There are
two main groups: first, there are the long-established research institutes
for tea, rubber, and coconuts, with a certain degree of financial autonomy,
governed by boards and with costs mainly financed by export cesses (tea and
rubber); second, within various ministries there are numerous research
institutes and units concerned with a variety of crops, livestock, fisheries
and forests. The Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research (MADR) is
the focal point of agricultural research--with two of its departments, the
Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the Department of Minor Export Crops
(DMEC), and two insticutes, the Agrarian Research Training Institute (ARTI)
and the Sugarcane Research Institute (SRI) engaged in research. Research in
DOA has been organized on a regional basis. The country has been divided



-9-
into nine agroecological regions. In each region, a regionaL research center
(RRC) has been established. In addition, there are 14 satellite research
stations and 24 adaptive research units. The Deputy Director (Research) is
in charge of research programs of DOA. Tea Research Institute and Rubber
Research Institute (Ministry of Plantation Industries), the Coconut Research
Institute (Ministry of Coconut Ine.stries), the National Aquatic Resources
Agency (Ministry of Fisheries), the Veterinary Research Institute (Ministry
of Rural Industrial Development), and the Forestry Research (Ministry of
Lands and Lands Development) are headed by directors.
27.     The role of universities in agricultural research is limited at
present. Although there are qualified agriculturaL scientists in the
Universities of Peradeniya, Ruhuna, and Batticaloa, they lack both the
mandate and funds to support substantial research.
28.     The Natural Resources, Energy and Science Authority (NARESA), estab-
lished in 1981 and reporting directly to the President, has broad powers to
plan, implement, coordinate, support, and evaluate scientific activities in
the country. So far, however, it has not contributed to planning and coor-
dinating agricultural research in the absence of a viable research strategy.
29.     Sri Lanka has about 500 agricultural research personnel (78 Ph.D.,
153 K.Sc., and 269 B.Sc. degree holders). Initial recruitment of scientists
is at the level of B.Sc. Agriculture/B.Sc. Allied Sciences. Post-graduate
qualifications are required for the promotion of research scientists. A good
stic' has been made at developing local post-graduate training capacity at
the Postgraduate Institute of Agriculture of the University of Peradeniya:
one-year M.Sc. degree (without thesis): two-year M.Sc. degree; and a
three-year Ph.D. degree.
30.     Besides the lack of coordination and inadequate linkages within
ministries and research institutions, other factors which limit the
efficiency of research are: (a) infrastructure facilities for laboratory,
office, and staff housing are inadequate; (b) library facilities are below
the required standards needed to support viable research; (c) economic and
social aspects of research are not addressed; (d) available scientific man-
power is not adequately trained; and (e) the efficiency of the research
system is impeded by inadequate number of technical support staff and inade-
quate operational funds per scientist (about US$1,600 per year against the
minimum requirement of US$2,600) to meet the cost of laboratory supplies,
agricultural inputs, labor, and other requirements.
IDA Assistance to Agricultura. Research
31.     Under the recently completed IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 931-CE), the training and visit (T&V) exten-
sion system for all crops (except tea and rubber) has been introduced in



-10-
Sri Lanka. A significant achievement of this project has been the estab-
lishment of adaptive research facilities in each district and the increased
collaboration among research and extension staff through the organization of
Regional Technical Working Groups (RTWC) in each of the nine agroecological
regions. Each RTWG meets twice a year, before the two main cropping seasons,
to discuss field problems and research results, plan future research
programs, and decide on extension recommendations. Adaptive research in each
agroecological region is focused on local problems. The program for research
at the regional research centers and adaptive research on farmers' fields are
determined for the most part by research staff in consultation with the
extension scaff. In addition, monthly research extension dialogues with
scientists, subject matter officers, and senior district agricultural staff
are organized at regional research centers to discuss field problems and
prepare lesson plans for fortnightly training. The combination of T&V exten-
sion and the regional research program has resulted in the establishment of a
well-built institutional base in DOA for extension work and
research-extension collaboration.
Rationale for Association Involvement
32.     Sri Lanka has a substantial agricultural research capability that has
evolved over the last three decades. Significant progress has been made in
improving production of some commodities, especially rice. However, with
responsibility for agricultural research scattered, there is no forum in
which national needs can be translated into a regional research program
and no mechanism by which limited availabLe resources can be allocated to
programs with highest priority. As a result, Sri Lanka does not have an
organizational base for planning agricultural research to: (a) define
national or regional goals; (b) stace such goals in terms that can be used to
identify and define problems needing research; (c) establish priorities among
defined problems; and td) design specific responsibilities and recommend
allocation of resources to organizations responsible for doing research.
Therefore, the rationale for Association involvement is to overcome the
problems arising out of the fragmentation of research among several minis-
tries and move towards an integration of research efforts and develop a
research strategy, so as to remove the present imbalances in the overall
research program and the relative neglect of research in priority areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.     The poLicy framework of the proposed project derives from the
Government's document, "National Agricultural, Food rnd Nutrition Strategy"
which recommended the establishment of a Council of Agricultural Research
Policy (CARP) in order to strengthen agricultural research, ensure
coordination among research institutions, and advise Government on research
strategy, planning, priorities, and funding.  The ?roposed project was



-11-
prepared in October 1985 by a team of government experts, assisted by a
consultant from the International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR), under the supervision of the Agricultural Research Group consisting
of eminent Sri Lankan scientists and senior administrators. Appraisal of the
project was completed in February 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in December 1986; the Sri Lankan delegation was led by
Mrs. S. Kuruppu. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6211-CE, dated March 4, 1987)
is being distributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives
34.     The proposed project seeks to raise farmers' incomes by increasing
agricultural production through the development of better varieties, and
improving husbandry practices and farming systems. This would be
accomplished through the establishment of a Council of Agricultural Research
Policy (CARP) with appropriate authority to formulate and set out in a
national agricultural research plan, an overall strategy and priorities for
research; recommend allocation of funds for planned implementation of
research programs; and strengthening of critical linkages between research
activities which are currently dispersed among many institutions. The
project would also focus on developing the human resource base and institu-
tional framework needed to carry out relevant agricultural research. Systems
of annual planning and review to be established under the project would
ensure that research allocations are made according to relative priorities of
contending programs.
Project Description
35.     The principal components of the project comprise:  (a) establishing
CARP to recommend to Government actions concerning research strategy,
policies, priorities, and funding; (b) strengthening research station
facilities by way of civil works and equipment, and library development;
(c) improving technical capacity of researchers through manpower development
and technical assistance; (d) introducing a contract research program to
finance research activities; (e) establishing a Headquarter Research Planning
Cell in DOA and a Project Management Unit (PMU) in MADR; (f) introducing
research planning and evaluation procedures; and (g) improving
research-extension linkages.
Detailed Features
36.     A basic feature of the proposed project would be the establishment of
a Council of Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) within the Ministry of
Agricultural Development and Research (HADR). However, CARP would have the
authority independently of MADR to submit to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning (MOFP) its recommendations on research programs and priorities.
This independent role of CARP was clarified and agreed with the Government



-12-
during negotiations. The Minister of Agriculture would appoint the members
of CARP, representing the various agencies involved in agricultural research
and related policy formulation and funding, plus an ex-officio Executive
Secretary. The members of CARP would comprise: one secretary of a ministry
concerned with agriculture; one representative of the Ministry of Finance and
Planning; one representative from NARESA; three directors of research
institutions (one each for perennial crops, annual crops, and livestock
production, forestry and fisheries); three representatives of producers and
processors (one elected from the Chamber of Commerce, one nominated by the
ministries in charge of the Janatha Estates Development Board and State
Plantations Corporation, and one nominated by the President to represent
smallholders producing food crops); one representative from the universities;
and one senior scientist of distinction. The Chairman of CARP would be
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture on the recommendation of the coun-
cil, to be elected from among its members. The Minister of Agriculture,
after advertisement of the post and on the recommendation of CARP, would
appoint the Executive Secretary to head the CARP Secretariat. As a condition
of Board presentation, an act for establishing CARP has been approved by the
Sri Lankan Cabinet of Ministers. As a condition of Credit Effectiveness, the
Act establishing CARP would have been approved by the Sri Lanka Parliament
and the Government would have appointed the CARP members, Executive
Secretary, and core staff comprising two senior scientists, and support
staff.
37.     The establishment of CARP would be a first step in integrating and
streamlining agricultural research and associated activities. It would be
responsible to formulate through a National Agricultural Research Plan
(NARP), research policies, strategies, and priorities; define the aims and
scope of overall research effort in agriculture and allied services to sup-
port national goals of agricultural development; and make recommendations on
the financial, manpower, and physical resources required by different
institutions to carry out research programs.
38.     CARP would prepare the National Agricultural Research Plan (for a
period of seven years) jointly with the research institutions, eminent scien-
tists within the country, extension services, and farmers. A draft NARP had
been prepared before credit negotiations. CARP would coordinate the prepara-
tion of a Status Review Report for each agroecological region to identify
farmers problems and constraints in adopting technical recommendations. CARP
would need time to prepare detailed Status Review Reports for the
agroecological regions and based on these reports complete the preparation of
the final NARP. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the final
NARP document would be sent to IDA not later than December 31, 1988 and
updated from time to time. CARP would introduce a task oriented program and
budgeting system and annual research program planning procedures that would
enable it to review and approve research programs of each institution and
making recommendations to the Ministry of Finance and Planning, independently
of MADR, for provision of funds. MOFP, in making budget provision for



-13-
research, would take into account the views of CARP. Research activities not
included under NARP would not be financed under the project. CARP would also
be responsible for preparation of a consolidated annual research report for
the country and frequent evaluation of research programs.
39.     Strengthening Physical Facilities.  The project would provide for
rehabilitation and construction of research station buildings and housing;
scientific and other equipment, accessories and spares, and vehicles; and
library facilities. These investments would cover 18 research stations, CARP
Secretariat, the Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA, and the Project
Management Unit (PMU) oE MADR.  A firm of architects/engineers would be
contracted for refining designs and estimates of buildings, preparation of
bidding documents and supervision of the construction program.
40.     Manpower DeveLopment.  Career development would be fostered under
the project to meet the following objectives: (a) research staff should
obtain a masters degree early in their career for further advancement;
(b) greater specialization should be provided in specific disciplines by
increasing the number of scientists with Ph.D. degrees; (c) established
senior scientists should participate in short-term courses at international
and other overseas institutions on research administration and other matters;
and (d) technical support staff should receive short-term training in the
operation, maintenance, and repair of equipment. The project would include
about 212 fellowships--26 for Ph.D. degree, 76 for M.Sc. degree (50 foreign
a-.l 26 local), and 110 short-term courses (77 foreign and 33 local).  In
addition, funds would be provided for study tours, organization of seminars,
workshops, and conferences at RRCs, other research institutions, and at the
national level. The manpower development program would be carried out by
CARP in accordance with a manpower development plan satisfactory to IDA. A
program for the first project year has been prepared and is satisfactory.
41.     Technical Assistance.  Technical Assistance would be essential for
planning and implementation of parts of the project. Considerable special-
ized expertise is available in Sri Lanka--in universities, in some government
departments, and among retired scientists. Expatriate assistance would be
provided in areas where local expertise is not available. The Covernment of
the Federal Republic of Germany (FRC) has agreed to cofinance (on a grant
basis) the technical assistance component. About 124 staff-months of techni-
cal assistance would be provided under the project, of which 70 staff-months
are for local consultants and 54 for expatriate consultants. Expatriate
assistance would be allocated as follows: 12 staff-months for a researcb
planning and budgeting consultant; 21 staff-months for research management;
6 staff-months for research evaluation; and 6 staff-months for CARP
administration and management; 3 staff-months for pasture and fodder crops;
and 6 staff-months for farming systems. Consultants would be employed with
qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference acceptable to
IDA. The agreement to be entered between GOSL and FRO would specify that if
German specialists in specific areas are not available, FRC grant funds would



-14-
be released for hiring specialists of other nationalities. Signing of this
agreement would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
42.     Contract Research.  Research activities under the project would be
funded through a contract research program. Funds would be made available
to research institutions, universities, and eminent scientists to conduct
research on problems/activities needed to support national agricultural
development goals. Four broad types of research would be included:
(a) applied research to expand the ongoing work on comnodities and production
factors and initiation of new research programs; (b) interministerial and
collaborative research on coconut intercropping, crop-livestock integration
in the rainfed Dry Zone, and other cropping and Earming systems research;
(c) special research programs not covered by (a) and (b) above, such as basic
research and agricultural economics research relevant to national agricul-
tural research priorities and carried out by the university research system,
distinguished and proven scientists, the Agrarian Research Training
Institute, and other organizations in Sri Lanka; and (d) adaptive research to
be carried out on farmers' fields to evaluate and refine technologies. CARP
would play a key role in providing guidelines for preparing research
proposals, examining and approving individual proposals, and monitoring
implementation.
43.     Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA.  Under the project, a
Headquarter Research Planning Cell would be established in DOA to assist the
Deputy Director (Research) in introducing efficient research planning and
management measures in all DOA research institutions and supervising other
project activities. The project would provide for incremental staff such as
an Additional Deputy Director (Research), an economist and support staff, and
incremental operating costs. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Seadquarter Research Planning Cell would be established and fully staffed
by June 30, 1987.
44.     Project Management Unit (MADR).  A Project Management Unit (PHU)
would be established in MADR headed by a Project Manager. The project would
provide funds for a PMU consisting of a Project Manager, Project
Coordinators, Procurement Officer, Civil Engineer, Accounts Officer, and
support staff, and incremental operating costs. PMU would be assisted by a
firm of architects/engineers in the implementation of the civil works
program. PMU would be a temporary feature and will function for the duration
of the project. Establishment of PMU, appointment of Project Manager,
Project Coordinators, Civil Engineer, Training Coordinator, and Accounts
Officer, and employment of a firm of architects/engineers would be a condi-
tion of Credit Effectiveness.
45.     Incremental Staff and Operating Costs.  Based on a review of exist-
ing staff at different institutions and the specific areas that need
strengthening, and the capacity of the Government to meet the long-term
financial commitment on such staff, the project would incLude a modest



-15-
increase in the number of scientists (34). The increase in technical support
staff (82) would help raise the ratio of scientists to support staff from
1:1.3 to 1:2 and enable each scientist to carry out more experiments. The
project would also include incremental administrative staff (53) for research
institutions.
Strengthening Research-Extension Linkages
46.     Existing research-extension linkages would be further strengthened
by: (a) preparation of area-specific status review reports, jointly by
scientists and extension workers; (b) economic studies on viability of tech-
nology, input use, constraint analysis, and research program design; and
Cc) systematic development of adaptive research funded under the project. In
addition, a diagnostic team of 2-3 scientists (including an economist) would
be formed at each research station, with responsibility for periodic visits,
accompanied by local extension staff, to farmers' fields in each season in
order to obtain information on their problems in the adoption of new technol-
ogy and also organize adaptive research trials. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that diagnostic teams would be formed at all research institu-
tions by May 31, 1987. The Government is planning a review of the present
extension system in Sri Lanka with the intention of bringing about improve-
ments and strengthening linkages with research. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that this review would be completed by June 30, [988 and IDA's
comments invited on the results and action proposed.
Project Coordination
47.     A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be formed in MADR to
ensure coordinated implementation of project activities dispersed among seven
ministries. PCC would be chaired by the Secretary, MADR and would include as
members, Secretaries of concerned ministries (or their representatives), the
Executive Secretary of CARP, and representatives of the National PLanning and
Budget divisions of MOFP. The Project Manager of PMU would act as member-
Secretary of PCC. This committee would meet once every quarter to review
project progress and resolve delays in project implementation. A Project
Coordination Committee was formed prior to negotiations.
Project Implementation
48.     Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with the
Secretary, HADR who would be assisted by a Project Management Unit to:
(a) handle project funds and make allocations to concerned institutions on
the basis of the approved plan and budget provisions; (b) finalize designs,
cost estimates, and bidding documents for civil works, evaluate bids and
award contracts, and supervise construction; (c) procure equipment and
vehicles; (d) help CARP in awarding fellowships and implementing the techni-
cal assistance program; (e) maintain project accounts, review statements of
expenditure of different institutions, claim reimbursement from IDA, and



-16-
review annual status of accounts, and (f) monitor and evaluate project
progress.
49.     Key factors in project implementation are the establishment of CARP,
preparation of the NPAP document, introduction of research planning proce-
dures, and timely completion of civil works construction and procurement of
vehicles, machinery, and equipment. A list of laboratory equipment required
for each research institution was finalized at appraisal. Most of the
vehicles, machinery and other equipment required have been identified. All
land for civil works construction is available, except for CARP headquarters
building, which would be located in Colombo. Standard designs and estimates
are available for civil works. Land for CARP headquarters would be made
available by December 31, 1987. Details of training requirements have been
worked out and training institutions are being identified. The training
program for the 4irst project year has been prepared and is satisfactory.
Civil works construction is expected to start in December 1987.
Monitoring and Evaluation
50.     The Project Management Unit will carry out periodic monitoring of
physical activities in the field according to a reguLar action program and
send quarterly progress reports to the Association. Evaluation of research
programs would be the responsibility of CARP through the annual research
review exercise and periodic field reviews. CARP would prepare and forward
to the Association a consolidated Annual Research Report by December 31 of
each year. CARP would commission a joint review (COSH/CARP/IDA) of all
research activities: (i) first, in January 1989, soon after the preparation
of the Iational Agricultural Research Plan, to enable mid-course corrections;
and (ii) again in January 1991, to determine if project objectives are being
achieved and to identify future strategies. Agreement on the above was
reached during negotiations.
Project Costs
51.     The total cost of the project, over a nine-year implementation
period, is estimated at US$26.5 million, including taxes and duties estimated
at about US$830,000. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US$13.4 million, or 51% of total project costs. Physical contingencies have
been calculated at the rate of 10Z on civil works, and 15% on equipment,
books and publications, resulting in an overall average amountint to 5% of
base costs. Price contingencies (34% of base costs) have been applied in
accordance with estimates of expected inflation rates in Sri Lanka (local
prices at 10% during 1987; 9% during 1988; 8% during 1989; 7.6% during 1990;
and 4.5% during 1991 and onwards; and foreign prices at 7% during 1987; 7.5Z
during 1988; 7.7% during 1989; 7.6% during 1990; and 4.5% during 1991 and
onwards). Project costs are updated to October 1986.



-17-
Project Financing
52.     The proposed IDA credit of US$18.6 million wouLd finance 70% of
project costs. The Government of the FederaL Republic of Germany (FRG),
through its technical assistance organizacion, intends co cofinance on a
grant basis the technical assistance component, which amounts to
US$0.8 million. The IDA credit and FRC grant would cover 100% of foreign
exchange costs (US$13.4 million), 46% of local costs (US$6.0 million), and
73% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The Government con-
tribution to the project would be about US$7.1 million including
US$0.8 million of taxes and duties.
Procurement
53.     Proposed procurement arrangements are:
us---------Us$ millions--------
ICB    LCB   Other   N/A    Total Cost
Civil Works                              -     7.7      -      -          7.7
(5.0)                     (5.0)
Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture       3.8    0.5    0.1      -          4.4
(3.8)  (0.2)  (0.1)               (4.1)
Training                                 -      -       -     4.8         4.8
(4.8)      (4.8)
Technical Assistance                     -      -      0.8 /a  -          0.8
(0.0)              (0.0)
Contract Research                       0.3 /b  -       -     5.3         5.6
(0.3)                 (3.1)       (3.4)
.Incremental Staff and                      -      -       -     3.2         3.2
Operating Costs                                            (1.3)       (1.3)
Total         4.1    8.2    0.9   13.3         26.5
(4.1)  (5.2)  (0.1)  (9.2)       (18.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses denote amounts to be financed by IDA.
/a Financed by FRG.
71 Includes vehicles and equipment.
Project civil works and farm development (about US$7.7 million) would consist
mainly of construction of houses, some office and laboratory buildings,
station roads and fencing, and provision of water supply, minor drainage



-18-
works, and land levelling. Work would be scattered at about 18 sites
throughout the country and over the project period. As designs would be
simple and construction techniques labor intensive, such contracts would not
be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) and would be let
through local competitive bidding (LCB) in which foreign bidders could par-
ticipate. Works at research stations would be bulked into suitable contract
bidding packages. A firm of architectslengineers would be hired to refine
the design, estimates, and bidding documents and Lo supervise construction.
Suitable local construction firms exist in sufficient numbers to ensure
adequate competition. Equipment, vehicles, and furniture (about US$4.7
million) would be bulked to the extent possible, in compatible contract
packages and procured under ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
preference limited to 15Z of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of
such items in the evaluation of bids. Contracts for miscellaneous items and
spares grouped in packages estimated to cost less than US$30,000 and totall-
ing in cost approximately US$500,000 would be procured under LCB. Items
costing less than US$10,000 for each contract, and totalling in cost
approximately US$100,000 would be procured through prudent shopping.
Government procedures are satisfactory. Contracts for vehicles, farm
machinery, and equipment would require the supplier to maintain adequate
after-sales inventory of spare parts. Books and publications would be
procured through direct purchase from sole suppliers or by competitive shop-
ping where several suppliers are available. About 100 bidding packages are
anticipated for contracts let under the project. Most of these would be for
civil works and equipment. Bidding documents for civil works contracts
costing US$100,000 or more and for machinery, equipment, vehicles and other
goods and services costing US$50,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for
review prior to bidding and award. This would result in about 15% of con-
tracts, covering 40% of the value of all contracts, being subject to prior
review.
Disbursements
54.     Disbursements under the Credit would be completed in nine years on
the basis of: (a) civil works (65% of expenditures); (b) equipment
and vehicles (100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures,
ex-factory, and 75% of local expenditures of other items procured locally);
(c) contract research (60% of expenditures); (d) fellowships and training
(100% of expenditures); and (e) incremental staff and operating costs (US$1.3
M) on Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA, CARP administration, and
PMU, and on a declining scale of 90X up to expenditure of US$1.0 million, 60Z
above US$1.0 million but up to US$1.6 million, and 40Z above US$1.6 million
but up to US$1.7 million. Disbursements against item (c) contract research
and item (e) incremental staff and operating costs would be on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure for which PMU would retain supporting
documents which would be made available to IDA representatives on request.
All disbursements made against statements of expenditure would be audited



-19-
annually by auditors acceptabLe to IDA and the documents would be retained by
PHU. Disbursements against civil works, equipment and vehicles, and fellow-
ships and training wouLd be fully documented. In order to ensure an early
start to the project, retroactive financing of about US$150,000 would be made
available for expenditures incurred after June 1, 1986 for establishing PMU,
hiring a firm of architects/engineers for preparation of building plans,
specifications, estimates, etc., and to meet the cost of a few foreign fel-
lowships.
Project Special Account
55.     A Project Special Account (PSA) would be opened, in US dollars, with
an initial deposit of US$500,000 in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to
facilitate financing of expenditures under Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement. The PSA would be established and operated according to
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Accounts and Audits
56.     All project funds and accounts would be maintained by the Project
Management Unit of MADR. MADR would (a) cause all research institutions,
PKU, the Headquarters Research Planning of DOA, and CARP Secretariat to
maintain separate accounts; (b) cause all the above institutions to furnish
PNU with monthly statements of expenditure; (c) cause PMU to maintain
separate records and accounts reflecting all project expenditures which would
be audited annually; and (d) cause PHU to send to IDA the results of such
audit, not later than nine months after the end of each financial year.
Benefits and Risks
57.     Benefits.  The benefits arising from the project are primarily
qualitative in nature such as objectives that would yield relevant,
cost-effective, and adaptable research. In the context of this project,
progress should be assessed towards developing:. (a) an efficient mechanism
for coordinating and planning research effort dispersed among seven minis-
tries; (b) a research system with closer links with extension and farmers;
and Cc) a research program that will support the agricultural development
goals of the country and the priority needs of small farmers.
58.     Overall, the project would focus research on on-farm problems and
link extension and research into an integrated system, through continuing
meetings of research scientists and extension staff, priority setting at
field level, and development of technology suitable to local conditions.
Major gaps and potential priorities for future research would be identified
as a result of NARP, Status Review Reports, the annual research planning
exercise, and the adaptive research diagnostic work.



-20-
59.     The direct benefits from the project would be substantial.  The most
important of them are: (a) emphasis on crop diversification research leading
to increased production of maize, finger millet and sorghum, oilseeds, and
pulses; (b) increased productivity under rainfed farming conditions;
(c) improved crop husbandry and farming systems to enable small farmers
increase their incomes; and (d) increased income for smallholders in the tree
crops sector through intercropping and generation of technical recommenda-
tions suited to their socio-economic situation.
60.     Employment and Poverty Impact.  The project would have only a com-
paratively small direct employment impact, both during construction and
during operation. Far more important will be its indirect impact on employ-
ment and income generation throughout rural Sri Lanka: through the dissemina-
tion and adoption of improved farm production and management techniques, the
project will lead to increases in on-farm productivity and farm output,
thereby generating additional employment and income for farmers, their
household members, and agricultural laborers. About 74% of the population of
the country lives in ruraL areas, and 46% (2.2 million persons) of the total
labor force is in agriculture. Smallholders operate 72.6% of total agricul-
tural land: with an average household size of nearly 6 persons, this implies
an average annual income in the smallholder sector of about US$110 per per-
son--one third of the national average of US$330 and, hence, equivalent to
the relative poverty level. Given these land and income distribution pat-
terns, the project's indirect employment and income generation effects would
initially accrue predominantLy to the rural poor; with rising agricultural
productivity and, hence, declining real prices of agricultural commodities,
the secondary impact will be to reduce the real cost of foodstuffs, thus
disproportionately benefitting the lower income groups who spend the bulk of
their income on food purchases.
61.     Risks.  The most serious risks in any agricultural research project
are: that research findings generated may be irrelevant to farmers' needs or
inapplicable under on-farm conditions; that research findings may not, or
only inadequately and with undue delay, be transmitted to farmers and, there-
fore, fail to generate the potential benefits as early and fully as possible;
and that changes in economic policy may prevent the adoption of technological
advances, i.e., render them economically unviable.
62.     The potential risk of inappropriate research orientation and technol-
ogy generation is directly amenable to corrective measures under the project.
Relevant aspects in this context include: regional decentralization; orien-
tation of research towards clearly identified farmers' needs, resources and
skills, diagnosed by multi-disciplinary teams prior to the formulation of
research programs; emphasis on field-testing and adaption; and increased
cooperation and communication with extension staff and farmers for inten-
sified feedback on research results.



-21-
63.     The second potential cause of non-adoption and/or lagging adoption is
already being effectively dealt with through the Bank's strong support for
improved agricultural extension services and GOSL's review of the need to
provide wider coverage of crops. The reformed extension services, operating
on the basis of the training and visit system, have proven effective in
reaching farmers and in spreading improved cultivation practices and
technologies.
64.     The risk of new technologies being rendered unsuitable for farmer
adoption by changes in economic policies must be addressed through improved
research management, mainly at the planning stage when economic policy objec-
tives and parameters need to be taken into account in the formulation of
research goals and priorities. The proposed project seeks to bring about
improved research management at all levels, including greater involvement of
economists in research planning and evaluation of impact.
65.     There would be implementation risks attributable to the proposed
organizational changes, especially the establishment of CARP and giving it an
important role in formulating research policy and recommending research
funding. The major risk is that the vested interests of different research
institutions may come in the way of efficient project implementation. This
risk would be largely overcome by the fact that the proposed role of CARP has
been initiated and strongly supported by the Government, research community,
and administrators. Further improvements would depend on CARP's leadership
and credibility over time. Funding of agricultural research is expected to
improve in light of commitments of COSL to support research as articulated in
the NAFNS document. The risk of major delays/slippages in physical implemen-
tation of the project would be reduced through the introduction of a system
of frequent monitoring and the nine-year implementation period. The
increased implementation period reflects a greater realism concerning the
feasible pace of project execution.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 18, 1987



-22-                                      A       I
Page 1
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Mont
Recent   Low-Income    MI d- Incom
1985       1973    Estimate  Asia & PaC    Asia & PaC.
AREA
Total land area ithou sq km)      65.6        65.6        65.6
Agriculturml 1% of total)          32.9       36.9        40.0
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                                       360 .0      283.7      1021.2
POPULATION AM VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         11133.0    13091.0    15851.0
Urban pop. (% of total)            19.9       22.0        21.2        23.0        34.6
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        2.0         1.8         1.9         2.3
Urban                                        3.3         0.5         3.7         4.2
Life expect. at blrth (yrs)        63.9       63.3        69.6        61.9        60.6
Population projections:
Pop. In 2000 (mill)                                     20.7
Stationary pop. (mill)                                  31.5
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land              516.4      541.4       603.8       317.0       176.5
Pop. aga structure (%):
0-14 yrs                        41.9        40.8        35.1        36.1        38.7
i5-64 yrs                       54.4        55.3        60.5        59.5       57.7
65 and above                      3.7        3.9         4.4         4.5         3.6
Crude birth rate (per thou)        33.2       29.8        26.2        27.1        29.7
Crude death rate (per thou)         8.0         8.0        6.1         9.7         9.4
Total fertility rato                4.9        4.2         3.2         3.5         3.8
Infant mort. rate (per thou)      63.0        55.2        36.6        66.3        64.7
Child death rate (per thou)         6.0        4.5         2.4         7.4         6.9
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)         15.0       55.3       100.5
users (% of married women)                   5.5        55.0        49.1        56.2
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)             79.5       85.3       125.1       123.2       115.5
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirunts)    100.6         94.9       105.8       102.8       110.3
Proteins (grams per day)        44.6        40.4        45.5        56.7        50.0
Pop. per physician (thou)           5.7        6.0         B.1         3.1         7.9
Pop. per nurse (thou)               3.1         2.0         1.3        4.4         1.a
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)        0.3        0.3         0.4         1.1         0.6
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Tot-l                   21.0        33.0 a      44.2       44.1
Urban                  46.0        65.0 a      75.9       64.6
Rural                  14.0        16.0 a      34.7       34.4
Population Growth             Infant Mortality       Primary School Enrollment
s                 ~~~~~~200-
5- |         200-                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~12D-c
1                         12
3                             -
tSg-7S 113-114         1350 1965 1970 1975 1930     l110 1165 1370 1575 1930
m 511 LANKA                                       SRILAJKA
m IrwST ECU GROUP                             o   ntsRFArNU



-23-                                     ANNEX I
Page 2
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent   Low-Incom      Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate  Asia a Pec    Asia & Pac
LA4BR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        3730.1      4347.2     5457.7
FPeale ()                       23.8        24.2       25.6        34.2        34.6
AgriCulture (%)                 56.0        54.7       53.4 a      68.6        53.3
Industry (')                    13.9        14.3       13.9 a      15.6        16.6
Participation rate (%)
Total                           33. 5       33.2       34.4        41.8        38.8
Male                            49.2        48.6        50.1       53.5        50.7
F em l                          16.6        16.7        18.0       29.4        26.9
Age dependency ratio               0.8         0.8         0.7        0.7         0.7
HOMSlrC
Average size of household:
Total                            5.4         5.8
Urban                            6.3         6.3
Rural                            5.2         5-5
Percontage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                            7.5         9.0        14.9
Urban                           35.9        34.5        45.9-
Rural                            2.3         3.0        8.0
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                  93.0        99.0      101.0        94.8       109.5
Mate                   98.0       104.0      103.0       104.2       111.6
Feasle                 86.0       94.0        99.0        78.7      107.3
Secondary: Total                35.0        47.0       56.0        33.0        47.8
male                 34.0       46.0        54.0        40.5       50.2
Female               35.0       48.0        58.0        24.7       44.7
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                                     15.4        16.1       38.2        29.6
Secondary                                                          18.2        21.8
Pupils reaching grade 6   )         ..          ..       39.3        56.2        74.6
INCOi. CONSOWPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy can imption per cap.
(kg of oll  quivalent)           106. 7      140.1      143.1       316.5      510.2
Percentage of private income
recived by:
Hi9hest 10% of households       36.9        28.0
HAgIest 20%                     52.1        42.8
Lowest 20%                       4.5         7.3
Lowest 40%                      13.7        19.3
Ent. absolute poverty Income
leovl (USS per capita):
Urban                             ,,          ,           ,,                  161.8
Rural                                                                --       135.6
Eat. pOp. below absolute
pov rty income level v.0
Urban                             ,,,                     ,27.0
ural l43.0
Passenger care/thou pop.           7.4         6.9                    0.5         5.7
NeMspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         39.8       40.9       06.1        23.4       62.7
EPO duly 1946
.    Ms Oa tb ge yuw bw.m 1513 and Ilt tfl bMwwm 180 gad GW7t and m s.mt alMe 11w.UM IOU md US.
4. gu.



-24-                                       ANNERM  I
3  Definitions of Social Indicators                                Page 3
The dcfinition of a particular socida indicator may    Infant (age 0-1) mortality rate - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over    per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. For instance, different countrics define urban  year of age, in a given year.
area" or -safe water" in different ways.        Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
of children, age 1-4, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)               same age group in a given year. For most developing
Total - Total surface arca comprising land area and  countries these data are derived from models using
inland watcrs.                                  information on infant mortality ratcs.
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-    Family planning - acceptors, (thousas) - Annual
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and  number of acceptors or birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow, as percentage of    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
toLal.                                          ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married woum-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita estW-    en) - Percentage of married women of child-beauing
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  age who are practising, or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas,    practising, any form of contracption. Women of
1986.                                           child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49,
although for sonme countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                 measured for another age group.
Total population - mid-year (millions)
Urban popultwon (percentage of total) - Different    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-    Index offoodproductionper capita (1974 - 76=100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data amro ig countries,                         commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food conunodities include pni-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    mary commodities (for example, sugarcae instcad
tions.                                          of sugar) which are ecdible and which contain nu-
Life ex.pectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a  trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cerals,
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were    vebetables, oil sceds, sugarcane and sugar beets,
to stay the samc throughout its life.           livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Population projectons                           tion of each country is based on national average
Poputation in 2000 - The prcjection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex, fertility and  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalcnt of net
miigration in the base year 1980, until the population    food supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                     Available supplies comprise domesUc production,
Stationary population - The projected population    imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e..   supplies exclude animal fied, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age structurr is stable, and the growth rate is    cs in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                           1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Population density, agriculural land- Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural arma.    activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Population age structure (percent) - Children D-14    ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years, working age 1-64 years, and people of 65    population.
years -And over as percentages of population.   Per capita supply ofprolein (grams per day) - Protcin
Crude birth raze - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita nut supply of food per day. Net
population.                                     supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand   all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                     ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Totalfertility rate - The average number of children    ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to    are lower than those of 75 grams of total protcin and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.               world, as proposed by FAO.



ANNEX I
-25-                                        Page 4
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
numbcr of practising physicians qualified from a    main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.              included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided    Percentage of dwetlings with electricity - total, urban,
by number of practising graduatc nurses, assistant    andrural - Conventional dwellings with dectricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliarics.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vatc, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals arc cstablishments   Primary School Enrollment - total, male andfemale
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
mablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                    many countrics consider primary school agc to be
Access to safe water (percentage ofpopulation) - total.   6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban, and rural- People (total, urban, and rual) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated    countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and    may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable   Secondary School Enrolbnent - total. mole and
acocss of that house. In rural areas reasonable acoss   female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usuaHly of 12 to 17
fetching water Absent and incomplete responses, and    years of agc.
krge variations between countnes, may affect the   Pupil-teacher ratio -primary, andseconday - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and    students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, crtain definitions    number of teachers.
and classifications such s urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupits reaching grade six - The percen-
able acces to safe water in rural arcas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably firom country to country
and thus affect comparability of the datL        INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                      Energy conmnprion per capita (kilograms of oil eqtu-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active    iaent) - Annual consumnption of commercial pri-
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but    ma&y energy (coal and lgnimte, petroleum, natural
excluding housewives and students. Definitions in    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal clectricity).
various countries are not comparabl.             Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
Female (percent) - Femalc labor force as a percen-    and kind) accruing to percentile grOUps of bou
tage of toLal labor force.                       holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent; - Labor forc in farming,    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                     cludes ambulances, hcarses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-   ANewspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of "daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.               paper," defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percent) - toral. male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percntage    to be "daily" if it appers at least four times a weck
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are    Estimated absolute poverty income level (U15 per
based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on    capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex structure of the population.        level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population undcr 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirenents
and 65 and over, to the worcing age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                         imate measures of poverty levds, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                          Estimated population below absolute poverty income
Average size of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
total, urban, and rural - A household consists of a    populations who live in "absolute povertY."



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 5
SRI LAUA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1985 BY SECTOR                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. constant prices)
Value Added
$ Million    Z                     1970-77        1977-85       1970-85
Agriculture                     1.513      27.5                     2.0            4.1           3.2
industry el                     1.355     24.6                      2.0            5.5           3.9
Services                        2,633     47.9                     3.7             6.8           5.3
Total f/                      5.501    100.0                      2.9            5.9           4.5
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1985
USS Million      x
GDP at Market Prices                             5.911       100.0
Investment                                       1.475        25.0
Gross National Savings                             906        15.4
Current Account Deficit                            569         9.6
Exports of Goods and NFS                         1.549        26.2
Imports of Goods and NFS                         2.262        38.3
GCVERNKENT FINANCE
Central Government
(ERs million)    Z of GDP at Market Prices
1985         1975       1984     1985
Current Receipts g/                         33.889         17.2       22.1     21.1
Current Expenditures h/                     33.593         18.3       17.2     20.9
Current Surplus                                 296        -1.1       4.9       0.2
Capital Expenditures it                      23,342         7.3       13.6     14.5
External Assistance                          11.097         3.2        6.4      6.9
a/  Registrar General's Department.
k/ Provisional.
c/ 1981.
d/ World Bank Atlas estimate.
e/  Manufacturing. mining. and construction.
f/ GDP at factor cost.
/  Includes capital revenue.
h/ Includes advance accounts.
i/ Includes net lending.
South Asia Programs Department
January 29. 1987



-27-
AM= I
Page 6
SRI LARk - ECoNwMIC INDICATORS
MoNE. CREDIT. AIND PRICES             1977    1978      1979    1980      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
(end of period)                                                       (Rs ilion)
Money and Quasi Money                8.635    10.803   14.957   19.709   24.287   30.249   36.818  43.015   48.099
Bank Credit to Public Sector         4.659     4.252    6,309   13.223   17.377   21.913   22.024   18.753   24.924
Bank Credit to Private Sector        4.115     6.449    7,735   12.085   16.275   20,257   26.960  30.831   33.763
(Percentages or Inde Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money am X of GDP     23.7    25.3       28.6    29.6    28.6    30.5    30.3    28.0    30.0
General Price Index (1970=100)        89.2   100.0    110.8   139.7   164.8   182.6   208.2   242.9   246.4
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                   +1.3   e12.1    410.8   +26.1   +18.0   +10.8   +14.0   +16.7    +1.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector          46.7    -9.3    +48.4  +109.6   +31.4   +26.1    +0.5   -14.9   +32.9
Dank Credit to Private Sector        .40.4   +56.7    +19.9   .56.2    +34.7   +24.5   +33.1   +14.4    49.5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MRCHANDISE MORTS (1985)
1983    1984    1985                                   5.riiaon        S
(US5 Million)
Tea                            438       32.9
ExPorts of Goods. NYS                1.360    1.743    1.549       Rubber                          94        7.1
Imports of Goods. NFS                2,138    2.142    2.262       Coconut Products                87        6.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)            -778    -399    -713         All Other Coioditias           712       53.5
Net Factor Income                     -138    -133      -126             TOTAL                  1.331      100.0
Net Transfers & Rittances              24       277      270
Balance on Current Account            -642    -255    -569
flYNAL DEBT (S Million) a/
Direct ForeiBn Investnt                 37       33       30
Net HILT Loans                         303      311      299                                  Deceber   Decaber
Disbursements                        378      410      434                                    1984        1985
Amortization                          75       99      135
Capital Grants                         171      203      145       Total Outstanding           3.892       4.456
Other Capital (net)                    132        -        7
Change in Reserves (+ = increase)       +1    +292      -88        Total Outstaing
and Disbursed             2.459       2.953
Gross Reserves (end-year)              522      721      671
Net Reserves (end-year)                -14      278      190
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products                                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO bl (1)    17.6        22.5
Imports                              469      420      391
Exports                              107      127      139
IND/IDA LDINI. December 31   0  (1   Million)
RATE OF EXCHANCgE
IBRD    IDA
End 1980                End 1983
US$1.00   i Rs 18.00    USO1.00 = Ri 25.00                         Outstanding and Disbursed       61.4   472.9
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.06      Rs 1.00 = USS 0.04                         Undisbursed                     64.0   246.1
End 1981                led 1984                                   Outstanding. including
US$1.00 = Rs 20.55      USS1.00 = Rs 26.23                           Undisbursed                  19s.4   721.0
Rs 1.00 = US 0.05      Rs 1.00 = USS 0.04
End 1982                End 1985
151.00 = Ps 21.32      US$1.00 = Rs 27.41
R1  1.00 = US$ 0.05     Rs l.00 = US$ 0.04
Ja  Repayable in foreign currecies and with a mturity over one yar. including private non-garatmed  debt.
b/ Ratio of debt service to sports of goods and services. Debt sece in clues service on KLT debt.
including DIM cbsas gadn rePurchases. and interest payments on short-tea debt.
South Asia PrFgram  Deartmet
January 29. 1987



-28-                                ANXII
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                       Amount
Credit                                                                (net of cancellations)
No.       Year   Borrower       Purpose                            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed/a
Nine loans and nineteen credits fully disbursed                    107.1  232.9
891       1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                   20.0       4.9
931       1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                           15.5       7.9
1017       1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation              16.0       5.3
1041       1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                            30.0       9.3
1048       1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                    19.5       7.1
1079 Jb    1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                       33.5      12.5
1130 /b    1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                          13.5       2.7
1160 /b    1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation              30.0      16.7
1166 7b    1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development III                 90.0      42.0
1182 /b    1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                         30.0      20.2
1210 /b    1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                  36.0      10.3
1240 lb    1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                             20.0       8.4
1317 /b    1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                      9.0       8.7
1363 /b    1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                        23.0
1401 /b    1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                 25.0       7.3
1494 /b Ic 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahoweli Ganga Development IV                  30.0      34.3
2437 /c    1984  Sri Lanka  Mhahweli Ganga Development IV           12.1             12.1
1537 lb    1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilitation                17.0      17.2
2517       1985  Sri Lanka  Second Roads                            24.0             20.3
1562 /b    1985  Sri Lanka  Fourth Tree Crops                              55.0     56.0
2576 tc    1985  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development II                    38.0             38.0
1692 tc    1986  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development II                      20.0     21.0
1697 tc    1986  Sri Lanka  Municipal Management                           13.0      12.9
1698 /c    1986  Sri Lanka  Second Vocational Training                     15.0      15.8
1700 /c    1986  Sri Lanka  Water Supply and Sanitation                    37.0     38.9
TOTAL                                                              181.2  830.9    453.1
of which has been repaid                                          54.4    6.6       -
Total now outstanding                                              126.8  824.3
Amount sold                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                     126.8  824.3
Total Undisbursed                                                   70.4  382.7    453.1
/a As credits are denominated in SDRs (since IDA Replenishment VI),
undisbursed SDR credit balances are converted to dollars at the current
exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR. In some cases. therefore,
the undi8bursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the
original principal credit amount expresp"d in dollars.
/b  IDA 6th. and 7th replenishment Credits.  rincipal amounts and credits not
yet effective shown in US dollars equivalent at date of negotiations. as shown
in the President's Reports and undisbursed amounts for effective credits shown
in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at Sept. 30, 1986.
/c Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sept. 30, 1986)
Year               Obligor                    Type of Business          Amount (US$ Million)
Loan   Equity  Total
1970         Pearl Textile                    Textiles                   2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80/83   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon         Development Banking         -     0.45    0.45
1978/81      Bank of Ceylon                   Development Banking        7.00    -       7.00
1979/81      Cyntex                           Textiles                   3.15   0.54    3.69
1979         Mikechris Industries             Polypropylene Bag          0-89   0.10      .99
1980/84/85   LOLC                             Leasing                    3.00   0.34    3.34
1981         Taj Lanka Hotels                 Hotel                     19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                                35.84   2.88   38.72
Less: Cancellations. Terminations.
Repayments, and Sales                          20.50    .75   21.25
Total Co mitments now Held by IEC                      15.34   2.13   17.47



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year
(b) The Agency which has prepared the project
Government/Agricultural Research Group
(c) Date of first mission to consider the project
October 3, 1986
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 27, 1986
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 11, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 15, 1987
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Act for establishing CARP would have been
approved by the Sri Lanka Parliament and the
Government would have appointed the members of CARP,
Ezecutive Secretary, and core staff (condition of
effectiveness, para 36);



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  Government would have executed the cofinancing agreement
with the FederaL Republic of Germany (condition of
effectiveness, para 41);
(c) Government would have: (a) established PMU and appointed
the Project Manager, Project Coordinators, Civil Engineer,
Training Coordinator, and Accounts Officer; and
(b) employed a firm of architects/engineers (condition
of effectiveness, para 44);
(d) The final NARP document would be sent to IDA not later
than December 31, 1988 and updated from time to time
(para 38);
(e) Government would complete the review of extension
requirements for Sri Lanka by June 30, 1988 and
IDA's comments invited on the results and action
proposed (para 46); and
(f) Two interim reviews of the project would be commissioned
by CARP and undertaken by a joint team of GOSL/CARP/IDA
in January 1989 and in January 1991 (para 50).



IBRD 19616
SRI LANKA
/-   -- ---neae    AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
/    ;; ;vk 5x          M              EXISTING RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS
/               ~.                                                   *  OOA REGIONAL RESEARCH
*t --  JA rF0  AMINOR EXPORT CROPS
JAFFNA                                      RESEACH INST"ITT
KI.nachcUr                                .  SUGARCkNE RESEARCH INSTITUTE
L                                                IL 1   r  tn  +  LNESTOCK RESEARCH INSTITUTE
MULLAITIVU                              COCONUTRESEARCH INSTITUTE
jI'                   )       ,* _ {_--       ::%,             XF TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
J                   N/C.  .  AJi O   R  Ir S   f RIV     R     _T H  EiR  N  -  RUBBER RESEARCH INSTITUTE
r              --.                                                    & z  -   2   u   *  FOREST RESEARCH  9r
NS -  ~ -<    VAVUNIYA  ----J
-        --<   VAVUNIYA  r'-'~  4\ *NATIONAL AQUATIC RESOURCES
;  MANNAR         )       <-        N                  AGENCY
-     U :     \   UNIVERSITY OF PERADENIYA
' %     '.,                                      0 '  NATIONAL CAPITAL
11.          /                   I..             -     -B -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
.) - -PROVINCE BOUNDARiES
N ORTH                      %           jE  ,   .- -   J ^ - _  _INTEAONAL
ANURADHAPURA            / TRINCOMALEE 4
f *                     'D,trkt Baumieies are lbs.
*      --                  C  E N  rrR A  L
-~MaIn Uupxullama
PUTTALAM            .               ti '1
r    PUTTALM             ._                   POLONNARUWA                                 r
r                                              r~r
N O(/RT   H                                            BATTCALOA
*    2    KURUNEGALA   AI      |   .r- -N           A  TLOA    'A"
r ( WES T E RNA                  MATMLE                 EAST/ERN  ';
Lunry..o                    \ OMiotale
makanduro             *J\_  -fwtt                        ,
'   N-,~    v' ,KEANDY          *X j
* GAMPAHA  I .1            \Gansonaruair
*   rt   a 1 1~ KEGALA--'       (        U   4           A     MPARAI
-r    r  BADULLA )
COGLOMBO         0 C    NUWARACI                r
_.       8      \\ - _     ,* ELIYA   I,
S %~rl  \          - tahaabel ,>         ,
,,    -  3~    -MONERAGALA
KALUTARA        R RATNAPURA
Agvlcwc  \' LiUdo WaI                      C-
,           >S         *,   *rTh,                 ,'~-      '
sALLE    'I N J  .7) Scf  -\HAMBANTOTA   -        .
GALLE      >     7/
-  i   >Ro 1 6 6 +  /V  _  INDIA
0 ; 20   3OASLES -'  >MATARA i                                       .,
0    10    20    20  ID 50 WKOMETES                                                (. Ri
_  LANKA
MAY 1986



