Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA'. />?2(- Ci-
Report No. 6217-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
March 4, 1987
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official dt ies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0 = Rupees (Rs) 27.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ARTI    -       Agrarian Research and Training Institute
CARI    -       Central Agricultural Research Institute
'ARP    -       Council of Agricultural Research Policy
CRI     -       Coconut Research Institute
DMEC    -       Department of Minor Export Crops
FRG     -       Federal Republic of Germany
DOA     -       Department of Agriculture
GOSL    -       Government of Sri Lanka
ISNAR   -       International Service for National Agricultural Research
MADR    -       Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
MOFP    -       Ministry of Finance and Planning
NAFNS   -       National Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Strategy
NARA    -       National Aquatic Resources Agency
NARESA  -       Natural Resources, Energy and Science Authority
NARP    -       National Agricultural Research Plan
PCC     -       Project Coordination Committee
PGIA    -       Postgraduate Institute of Agriculture
PMU     -       Project Management Unit
RO      -       Research Officer
RRC     -       Regional Research Center
RRI     -       Rubber R2esearch Institute
RTWG    -       Regional Technical Working Group
SRI     -       Sugarcane Research Institute
T&V     -       Training and Visit System
TRI     -       Tea Research Institute
USAID   -       United States Agency for International Development
VRI     -       Veterinary Research Institute



FOR OmFICL USE 01.Y
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table e" Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary
I .  INTRODUCTION .............................................................a  .  1
II.  AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND RESEARCH ...........        .................      1
The Agricultural Setting              ...............................     1
-  Agricultural Performance .,........................                 2
-  Productivity Trends             .................................   3
The Agricultural Research System              .........................   4
-  Research Institutions ......         .........................      5
-  Research - Extension Linkages .....         ..................     11
Problems and Constraints               ............................     12
Bank Operations in Agriculture              ...........................  14
III.  THE PROJECT ...................          ........................        15
Project Rationale ....                                                  15
Project Objectives and Main Features             .....................  16
Detailed Features          ........................... ............     17
Project Costs .... .       ......     ..............................    25
Project Financing ......... ......0. ........................           26
Procurement ..2.......... ........... ...*.*** *** .......             27
Disbursement, Accounts and Audit .........................              29
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ............ ........              31
Project Coordination ...        ..................................      31
Research Planning ...r0¢@ .. .......... ...*.                           32
Project Implementation            ...................................   36
-  Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research....              36
-  Council of Agricultural Research Policy .............              37
-  Research-Extension Linkages ................,........              38
-  Monitoring and Evaluation ......         .....................     40
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ................                                      41
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS ................*            .........   ...****.        45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
ANIX8ES
Annex 1 - Organizations Concerned with Agricultural Research
Agroecological Regions and DOA Research Institutions
List of Institutions Included for Strengthening
Annex 2  -  Summary of Project Cost
Phased Table of Project Cost
Civil Works
Equipment and Vehicles
Fellowships and Training
Manpower Development: Fellowship Program
Technical Assistance
Contract Research
Council of Agricultural Research Policy
Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA
Project Management Unit
Phased Requirement of Staff
Annex 3  -  Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4  -  Investment on Agricultural Research and Outline of
Research Activities - FY1986
Annex 5  -  Implementation Schedule
Annex 6  -  List of Material Available in Project File
CHARTS
1. Organizational Chart of Agricultural Research System in Sri Lanka
2. Organizational Chart of DOA
3. Organization of Research Division of DOA
4. Proposed Research Organization
MAPS
IBID 19616 - Existing Research Institutions
IBRD 19617 - DOA Research Stations and Adaptive Research Units
IBD 14076R1 - Agroecological Regions



(i)
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:         SDR15.4  Million (US$18.6 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Proiect
Description: The proposed project seeks to raise farmers' incomes by
increasing agricultural production through development of
better varie:ies, and improving husbandry practices and
farming systems. The principal elements of the project would
comprise: (a) establishment of a Council of Agricultural
Research Policy (CARP) with appropriate authority to
formulate, through a National Agricultural Research Plan,
an overall strategy for research and to set national research
policy and priorities for allocation of resources; and
recommend allocation of funds for phased implementation
of research programs; (b) provision of infrastructure,
equipment, machinery and vehicles at research institutions;
(c) introduction of a contract research program; (d) staff
development and technical assistance; (e) establishment of
a research planning cell and project management unit;
(f) strengthening of research-extension linkages; and
(g) provision of incremental staff and operating costs.
The National Agricultural Research Plan prepared under the
project would be updated from time to time. Annual budget
allocations would be reviewed in relation to annual research
programs consistent with this plan.
Benefits:       The major benefit would be the contribution to government's
agricultural development goals through better quality
solutions to farmers problems. The institution building
would improve the cost effectiveness of the research system.



(ii)
Risks:          A major risk is that the vested interests of the research
institutions working under different ministries may come
in the way of efficient implementation of the proposed
organizational changes. This would be largely overcome by
the fact these changes have been initiated and strongly
supported by the Government, research community, and
administrators.
Estimated Cost: /1
US$ Million Eauivalent
Local      Foreign      Total
Civil Works                         3.4          1.8        5.2
Vehicles and Equipment              0.4          2.4        2.8
Fellowships and Training            0.2          3.6        3.8
Technical Assistance                0.1          0.6        0.7
Contract Research                   3.0          1.4        4.4
Incremental Staff                   1.5            -        1.5
Incremental Operating               0.5          0.S        0.7
Base Cost                       9.1         10.0       19.1
Physical Contingencies              0.4          0.5        0.9
Price Contingencies                 3.6          2.9        6.5
Total Cost                     13.1         13.4       26.5
Financin_ Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent
Local     Foreihn      Total
IDA                         5.9       12.7         18.6
FRG                         0.1        0.7          0.8
GOSL                        7.1          -.
Total                      13.1        13.4        26.5
Estimated Disbursement:
US$ Million Eauivalent
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY96   FY97
Annual         0.1    0.9    1.0    2.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    1.6    1.0
Cumulative     0.1    1.0    2.0    4.0    7.0   10.0   13.0   16.0   17.6   18.6
Rate of Return:     Not applicable
/1 Including taxes and duties of about US$0.8 million equivalent.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has requested assistance from
the Inte'rational Development Association (IDA) to finance an Agricultural
Research Project. The policy framework of the proposed project derives from
the Government's document, "National Agricultural, Food and Nutrition
Strategy" which recommended the establishment of a Council of Agricultural
Research Policy in order to strengthen agricultural research, ensuring coor-
dination among research institutions, and advising Government on research
strategy, planning, priorities, and funding.
1.02      The proposed project was prepared in October 1985 by a team of GOSL
experts, assisted by a consultant from the International Service for National
Agricultural Research (ISNAR), under the supervision of the Agricultural
Research Group consisting of eminent Sri Lankan scientists and senior
administrators.
1.03      Appraisal of the project was completed in February 1986 by a mis-
sion comprising Messrs. R. V. Ramakrishna and 0. Honisch (IDA);
R. W. Etheredge (Consultant); and R. Adelhelm (GTZ, Agency for Technical
Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany).
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND RESEARCH
A. The Agricultural Setting
Background
2.01      Sri Lanka covers an area of 65,611 square kilometers (6.5 inillion ha)
of which, about 22,400 square kilometers or about 2.3 million ha are agricultural
land. Three quarters of the population of more than 15.8 million (mid-1985) live
in the rural areas, and the population density averages 241 persons per
square kilometer and is three times as high on agricultural land.
2.02      Climate and Soils.  Sri Lanka has a bimodal rainfall pattern; the
island is subject to the northeast monsoon from November to February (locally
known as the Maha season) and the southwest monsoon from May through
September (Yala season). Temperatures are remarkably constant throughout the
year, and temperature variations are not an impediment to crop production.
The country has a diversity of soils and there are three important zones
(Dry, Wet, and Intermediate) and 17 major soil groups and subgroups.
2.03      Irrigation.  The rivers of Sri Lanka flow in a radial pattern from
the central mountains to the sea. The importance of irrigation stems from
the fact that paddy, which is the mainstay of the farmer, needs a con-
siderable volume of water. The area under irrigation has doubled during the
past 30 years. From 1970 to 1984, it increased from about 341,000 ha to



-2-
nearly 460,000,ha. More than 80% of this total area is located in the
Dry Zone.
2.04      Land Use.  The 2.3 million ha area currently under cultivation is
divided about evenly between annual and permanent crops. During the Maha
season, as many as 400,000 ha of additional area are planted to various field
crops under shifting "chena" cultivation on some 1.4 million ha of poor
forest land. Paddy, with more than 800,000 ha, and tree crops (tea, rubber
and cocon-it) with about 800,000 ha, account for most of the permanent cul-
tivated land. About 600,000 ha area is under rainfed mixed farming, mostly
as homestead gardens that produce a range of minor crops, including chillies,
onions, pulses, maize, groundnut, cotton, cocoa, coffee, spices, vegetables,
and fruits. Smallholders grow a wide variety of crops and account for vir-
tually the entire paddy production and most of the output of minor food and
export crops. Land utilization on estates, mostly under tea, rubber, and
coconuts, differs considerably from that on smallholdings. Tea is grown on
nearly 230,000 ha in three elevation zones; high-country (1200 m and higher);
mid-country (600-1200 mi); and low-country (below 600 m). About 138,000 ha of
tea is under estates and 92,000 ha with smallholders. Rubber is produced on
some 170,000 ha at altitudes of 150-500 m; estates operate about one-third
and smallholders the rest. Coconuts, which play a major role in the local
die-, are planted in most settled areas and cover about 400,000 ha, with
smallholders accounting for 85% of the area.
Agricultural Performance
2.05      Agriculture is the main source of employment and income for more
than 2.2 million people (about 46% of the active labor force). Real agricul-
tural growth averaged 2.8% per annum between 1960 and 1982, and the contribu-
tion of agriculture, forestry and fisheries to total CDP declined from 38% in
1960 to 28% in 1984. Agriculture remains by far, the single most important
source of employment and income for the rural population. The sector also
continues to contribute significantly to both export earnings and government
revenue. Although consistently positive, agricultural growth has fluctuated
over time, thus accounting in considerable measure for fluctuations in over-
all GDP growth.
2.06      Growth performance of the crop sector during the 1960s was mixed.
Paddy production accelerated from an average annual rate of 1.5% during the
first half of the decade to 9.7% during the second half. Performance in the
tree crop subsector, on the other hand, deteriorated sharply in the late
1960s. Agricultural performance deteriorated in the first half of the 19708.
Following new economic policies in 1977, agricultural growth accelerated to
about 4.4% per annum during 1977-82, despite continuing sluggishness in the
tree crop subsector. Growth was particularly pronounced in paddy production,
which rose from about 1.7 million tons in 1977 to nearly 2.5 million tons in
1983, before suffering a weather-induced setback to 2.4 million tons in 1984.



-3-
Productivity Trends
2.07      Yields and acreage for Sri Lanka's main agricultural crops are:
Area and Yields for Major Crops
Area in '000 ha; yields in kg/ha
Paddy             Tea             Rubber         Coconut
Period        Area    Yield    Area   Yield    Area   Yield    Area   Yield /a
1959-61       576     &,845    227    869       168     574     400    6,830
1964-66       629     1,866    230    970       180     666     402    7,601
1969-71       726     2,535    227    952       195     770     401    6,704
1976-78       809     ',485    228    892       204     741     408    5,945
1982-84       887     3,315    229    837       170     796     395    5,752
/a Nuts per ha.
2.08      The growth in production of paddy between 1960 and 1965 was
primarily due to increased area in Dry Zone Maha and Yala crops, whereas the
increase since 1977 has been due to a combination of a continued improvetwent
in yields and significant additions to the areas served by major irrigation
schemes. Between 1970 and 1984, Naha yields have risen by about 2.31 p.a.
and Yala yields by 2.72. High-yielding varieties cover about 801 of the land
sown under paddy. Available data indicate that fertilizer application, use
cf improved seeds, and access to irrigation and credit have been the most
important inputs in the long-run trends in productivity growth.
2.09      Tea yields have steadily declined since the early sixties and there
have been major performance differences between the public and private sec-
tor.  The declining yields on state plantations have been caused primarily
by circumstances surrounding the land reform measures of 1972 and 1975, and
inefficient management. Smallholder yields have declined for mid- and
high-country teas, but increased for low-country tea.
2.10      The area under rubber and coconut have remained fairly constant.
Yields have declined in coconut due to a marked decrease in fertilizer use,
increasing age composition of trees, and inadequate extension support.
2.11      Crop Diversification.  The policy environment for agricultural
production in Sri Lanka has improved since 1977 when paddy production and
trading were deregulated. No such changes were made in other farm crops,
which have stagnated. There has been little diversification away from the
four main crops (paddy, tea, rubber, and coconut), leaving the economy
vulnerable to changes in their international prices. The need for such
diversification for making more efficient and productive use of the country's



-4-
agricultural resources is increasingly more evident. COSL has recently
started a "Diversified Agricultural Research Project" with assistance from
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The project
is focused on subsidiary food crops (coarse grains, grain legumes, and oil-
seeds), and poultry and livestock products research with some support to
extension, seed production and distribution, and improvement of managerial
capability.
B. The Agricultural Pesearch System
Background
2.12      Research activities in Sri Lanka have developed over time in a very
uncoordinated manner and in response to the influence of at least seven
different ministrie£. As a result, research is fragmented with inadequate
linkages within ministries and between ministries and research institutions.
A major constraint in the research system is the absence of a mechanism for
coordinating and consolidating research efforts, identifying national
research needs, and establishing priorities consistent with needs. Research
information is not collated, analyzed, and interpreted in a manner that
enables it to reach the levels where decisions are made on priorities and on
appropriation of funds. In many institutions, research is not farmer
oriented and there are no mit.roeconomic studies to show the impact of
improved technologies on farmers' fields. Interaction between departmental
secretaries and directors of research institutes or departments is mainly
concerned with financial and administrative matters, and little time is spent
on review of research progress and priorities. Similarly, decisions on
programs and budget are not effectively transmitted to scientists. Until
recently, research programs have been concentrated on rice, tea, rubber, and
coconuts. In case of rice, the research effort has produced tangible
results, contributing to Sri Lanka achieving near self-sufficiency. The
impact of research on tea, rubber and coconut has been mixed and only a few
technical recommendations have been developed to resolve field problems of
smallholders. Little effort has been made to consider commoaities as com-
ponents of farming systems or to address livestock management as an integral
part of farming activities. In addition to the above, research infrastruc-
ture is weak, the available manpower is not well trained, and research
operating funds are inadequate.
2.13      Responsibility for agricultural research lies with 15 research
institutions, under seven ministries and the office of the President
(Annex 1, Page 1). There are two main groups: first, there are the
long-established research institutes for tea, rubber and coconuts, with a
certain degree of financial autonomy, governed by Boards and their costs
mainly financed by export cesses (tea and rubber); second, within various
ministries there are numerous research institutes and units concerned with a
variety of crops, livestock, fisheries, and forests. Among these, the
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research (MADR) is the focal point



-5-
of agricultural research - with two of its departments, the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) and the Department of Miner Export Crops (DMEC), and two
institutes, the Agrarian Research Training Institute (ARTI) and the Sugarcane
Research Institute (SRI), engaged in research.
2.14      The role of universities in agricultural research is limited at
present. Although theue are qualified agricultural scientists in the
Universities of Peradeniya, Ruhuna, and Batticaloa, they lack both a mar.date
and regular funds to support substantial research.
2.15      The Natural Resources, Energy and Science Authority (NARESA),
established in 1981 and reporting directly to the President, has broad powers
to plan, implement, coordinate, support and evaluate scientific activities in
the country. So far, it has not contributed to planning and coordinating
research in the absence of a viable research strategy.
Research Institutions
2.16      The main agricultural research network (Chart 1 and Map TBRD 19616)
comprises the following institutions:
2.17      Department of Agriculture (DOA).  DOA is headed by the Director of
Agriculture and is assisted by eight Deputy Directors at headquarters
(Peradeniya, Kandy district) each heading a division: Research, Fxtension,
Training, Economics and Projects, Farms and Planting Material, Engineering,
Administration, and Budget and Finance (Chart 2). Research activities of DOA
are organized on a regional basis. The three main climatic zones of the
country have been divided into eight agroecological regions on the basis of
climate, topography, and soils (Map IBRD 14076R1). The main irrigated and
associated non-irrigable areas of the Mahaweli System C are identified as an
additional region (ninth). There are thus nine Regional Research Centers
(RRCs) and a special station devoted to rice breeding at Battalagoda. Some
RRCs have under their control satellite research stations (14) at different
locations within the region. Under the ongoing IDA-assisted Agricultural
Extension And Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 931-CE), 24 Adaptive Research
Units have been established (one in each district) to carry out field trials
under farmers' conditions. The Sita Eliya satellite research station located
in Nuwara Eliya district, has the status of special station for potato and
vegetable research (Details are at Annex 1, Pages 2 and 3; Chart 3, and
Map IBRD 19617). Two other research units for Water Use and the Soil
Conservation, are located at DOA headquarters, directly under the administra-
tive control of Deput- Director (Research). Laboratory buildings, equipment,
and other facilities are inadequate at most stations, except at the Central
Agricultural Research Institute (CARI, Gonnoruwa), RRCs at Maha Illuppallama
and Angunukolapelessa, the Rice Breeding Station at Battalogoda, and the
satellite research station at Sita Eliya.



-6-
2.18      The Deputy Director (Research) is in overall charge of planning
and implementation of research programs of rice, coarse grains, pulses,
oilseeds, root and tuber crops, condiments, horticultural crops, and soil and
water management. He is assisted at headquarters by three Research Officers
and by the Regional Deputy Directors at the nine RRCs.
2.19      DOA has 222 research officers (RO), of whom only about 100 have
post-graduate degrees. The minimum qualification for entry into the research
stream in Sri Lanka is a B.Sc. degree (agriculture or allied aciences).
Research work is handicapped by the absence of staff with training in
research methodology. Each RRC does not have a core staff unit depending on
actual needs, and the number of ROs changes constantly. Reseas-ch work at DOA
stations is handicapped by the absence of adequate support staff and research
operating funds. As a result, the number of experiments carried out by
scientists is a bare minimum, travel is restricted, and much laboratory
equipment need repair (repair facilities exist at CARI and
Maha Illuppallama).
2.20      A National Coordinated Research Program is in operation in nine
different topics (rice, finger millet, grain legumes, oilseeds, wheat,
potato, other tuber crops, chillies and rice-based cropping systems), with
the objective of developing high-yielding varieties, improving cultural
practices and crop protection measures, and developing profitable cropping
systems. Six RRCs have been given lead responsibilities for a combination
of crops/programs. Good resulcs have been achieved under rice and potato
whereas the progress under other programs is limited. DOA has established
good linkages with several international agricultural research
institutions. 1/
2.21      Rice varieties of varying durations (3 and 3-1/2 months; 4 and
4-1/2 months; and 6 months) and appropriate cultural practices have been
developed for different agroecological regions. About 80% of the rice area
is under the improved high-yielding varieties raising the average rice yields
to about 2,500 kg/ha. Varieties suitable for ir.n toxic areas and varieties
resistant to Gall Midge and Blast have been developed. More attention is now
being given to the improvement of maize and finger millet varieties. A new
high-yielding finger millet variety of 75-90 days duration is adapted to
short rainfall periods. New cowpea, black gram, green gram, and soyabean
varieties have recently been released. Farmers' response has seen en-ourag-
ing.  Viable potato seed has been raised from the open-pollinated "Desiree"
1/ International Rice Research Institute (IRRI); International Maize and
Wheat Improvement Center (CIMKYT); International Potato Center (CIP);
Int4rnational Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA); International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT); and the
Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center (AVRDC).



-7-
variety and two late blight resistant varieties released. Under agricultural
engineering, the Farm Management Research Center at Maha Illuppallama has
introduced a paddy transplanter which is very popular among farmers.
2.22      The main weaknesses of the DOA research system are:  (a) inadequate
attention to crops other than rice; (b) lack of interdisciplinary approach
to research at RRCs; (c) lack of socioeconomic research though qualified
economists are posted at all RRCs; (d) inadequate monitoring of research
activities; 'e) failure to prepare annual research reports by each RRC and by
DOA for review and discussion; (f) lack of library facilities; and
(g) untrained research staff.
2.23      Department of Minor Export Crops.  This Department (DMEC) came into
existence in 1972; prior to that it was part of DOA. DMEC's research divi-
sion was established in 1974 with grant assistance from the Food and
Agricultural Organization (FAO) that continued through 1983. DMEC is respon-
sible for a number of non-food crops of which cinnamon, clove, coffee, car-
damom, nutmeg, and pepper, grown in the Wet and Intermediate Zones under
rainfed conditions, have been selected for special attention. DMEC is headed
by a Director, assisted by three Assistant Directors - one for Research and
two more for Technical Services and Administration. DMEC's main research
station is located at Matale (25 kms north of Kandy) and four substations are
at Delpitiya, Kundasale, Waringalla and Gammaduwa. Matale station is headed
by a Senior Research Officer assisted by 23 Research Officers. Allocation of
research operating funds is inadequate. Library facilities are poor.
Reasonably good research on germplasm collection and evaluation, and
agronomic and crop protection studies is conducted at Matale. As most of the
minor export crops are grown under mixed cropping systems, research is con-
centrated on cropping patterns associated with these situations. Recently,
some work has started in monoculture conditions. Improved varieties of
coffee and pepper are now available to farmers. A pepper hybrid variety and
two other selections that give high yields up to 3,000-4,000 kg/ha (in the
fourth year) have been introduced. These are gaining popularity with
farmers. As part of a research collaborative effort, DMEC funds some
research at the Tea Research Institute, Postgraduate Institute of Agriculture
(PGIA) of the University of Peradeniya, and the University of Ruhuna.
2.24      Sugarcane Research Institute (SRI).  Prior to the establishment
of the Sugarcane Research Institute in 1981, research on sugarcane was con-
ducted by the Sri Lanka Sugarcane Corporation. In recent years, GOSL has
taken steps to increase local production of sugar. Though administratively
under MADR, the Institute is controlled by a Board of five members comprising
the Director of National Institute of Plantation Management (Chairman);
Director of Agriculture; Chairman of Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation; and one
representative each from the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya
and the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Initially, research *was based at
Kantale and Hingurana. With the expansion of sugarcane area in the
Intermediate Zone and south eastern part of the Dry Zone, the main research



-8-
complex was established at Uda Walave in the south eastern part of the Dry
Zone with Kantale and Hingurana serving as substations. A few existing
buildings at Uda Walave are being renovated. SRI is headed by a Director and
assisted by 10 Research Officers. The Japanese Government has assured a
grant of US$2 M (in April 1986) for purchase of equipment and vehicles.
2.25      Sugarcane research has been conducted on methods of land prepara-
tion, fertilizer response, weed control, irrigation requirements, pest iden-
tification and control, and ratooning, and crop recommendations have been
formulated for the Intermediate and Dry Zones. There is no mechanism through
which research could have first-hand information on farmers' constraints in
adopting various crop recommendations. A major weakness is the continuing
dependence on only one well-adapted variety. Of late, research is con-
centrated on collection of good varieties from other countries for testing
and selection under local conditions. For this purpose, linkages have been
established with the Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, India; the
Sugarcane Research Institute, Mauritius; the United States Department of
Agriculture; and the Canal Point Research Station, United States of America.
2.26      Forestry Research.  The Forest Department functions under the
administrative control of the Ministry of Lands and Land Development. The
research division is located in Colombo, and is headed by a Senior Research
Officer (Deputy Director) assisted by three research officers. This staff is
inadequate to carry out meaningful research. Under the IDA-assisted Forest
Resources Development Project (Cr. 1317-CE), funds were provided for carrying
out species and provenance trials in the Dry Zone and up-country, and land
preparation and ground clearance trials in the Dry Zone. Reasonably good
progress has been made in carrying out useful trials. Forestry research
activities are being expanded with assistance from USAID (US$846,000) by
establishing: (a) A Central Research Station and Training School at Nuwara
Eliya, for Wet Zone and high-land forestry research, and (b) field research
station at Badulla (Dry Zone). The Asian Development Bank is providing funds
(US$225,000) for the purchase of equipment.
2.27      Research activities are not supported by adequate resources, both
in terms of funding and staff. The research effort is not based on a sys-
tematic plan and program. Available research results have not been compiled
and analyzed, and as such are of little practical use.
2.28      Veterinary Research Institute (VRI).  VRI is located at Gonnoruwa,
near Kandy, and is under the Department of Animal Production and Health in
the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development. The Department is headed by a
Director and VRI by a Deputy Director, assisted by 16 Research Officers, and
15 operational and support staff. Research work is carried out on animal
breeding, bacteriology, virology, parasitology, reproductive disorders, and
animal nutrition. Advances have been made in selection and breeding for
improved meat and milk production in cattle and sheep, for better draft
ability in buffaloes, and for improved layers and broilers in poultry.



-9-.
Research priorities are not set by identifying farmers problems. Very little
research has been done on fodder crops and other cattle feeds. No efforts
have been made to integrate crop and livestock research, and there is no
formal mechanism for doing so. The allocation of research operating funds is
inadequate.
2.29      Tea Research Institute (TRI).  TRI, a statutory body in the
Ministry of Plantation Industries and working under the Tea Board, was estab-
lished in 1925 on St. Coombs Estate near Talawakelle, Nuwara Eliya district.
It is headed by a Director, assisted by two Deputy Directors (Research and
Administration) and about 30 scientists. TRI is responsible for research,
production, and processing. There are two research subcenters (Hantana near
Kandy for mid-country tea and Ratnapura for low-country tea) and three
advisory and extension centers. Funding is provided by the Tea Board from a
cess on exports.
2.30      Tea research has made important contributions to pest control
(biological control of leaf-eating Tortix caterpillar, and control of Blister
Blight and root-rotting fungus). Vegetative propagation has been pioneered
by TRI and high-yielding clones have been developed and introduced. Foliar
application of zinc sulphate has been popularized. On the technology side,
an energy-saving fluid-bed drier has been developed, patented, and released
to industry. The main shortcomings of research on tea are: (a) lack of
efforts to identify the problems of smallholders (especially on economics of
fertilizer use and non-adoption of crop protection measures) and designing
research programs to resolve them; (b) no work has been initiated on tea
intercropping; and (c) no studies have been carried out to assess the
economic viability of research recommendations. An important weakness of the
tea industry which also affects tea research is the absence of a data base
for planning.
2.31      Rubber Research Institute (RRI).  RRI is a statutory body in the
Ministry of Plantation Industries and functions under the Rubber Research
Board (RRB). RRI is located at Agalawatta, Kalutara district, south of
Colombo, and is one of the oldest rubber research institutes in the world.
There are two substations. A Director heads RRI and is assisted by a Deputy
Director Research and about 30 scientists. The Director RRI is the Vice
Chairman of RRB. RRI is funded by a cess on rubber exports. The quality of
scientists and research is of a high order. RRI has good lateral linkages
with TRI and CRI and direct links with the International Rubber Research and
Development Board.
2.32      Rubber research has identified blight resistant clones for planting
in wetter areas; demonstrated for the first time that girth and yield of
Hevea have a significant interaction with the genotype and environment; and
established the best time of the day for achieving auccessful hand pollina-
tion of flowers. Three promising new selections from the hand pollination
program have been released for large-scale testing. Good progress has been



-10-
made in research on high plant populations, and best method of exploiting of
old trees at the end of the replanting cycle. New strains of the
Phytophthora fungus were identified and their relative pathogenicity
assessed. The chemistry department of RRI is working on new applications of
natural rubber and on vulcanization techniques. Studies on use of solar
energy for drying crepe rubber have begun and look promising. Critical areas
of research which have not received adequate attention are: (a) an in-depth
study of problems of smallholders in increasing yields and efforts to resolve
them; (b) rubber intercropping studies; (c) investigation of by-products; and
(d) economic use of inputs, especially fertilizer, at different stages of
plant growth.
2.33      Coconut Research Institute (CRI).  CRI is a statutory body in the
Ministry of Coconut Industry and functions under the Coconut Research Board.
CRI is located at Lunuwila, north of Colombo in a major coconut growing area
and has nine outstation units. Of these, four are substations and the other
five are specialized units with responsibility for parasitic breeding
(biological control), intercropping trials, coconut agronomy in the Dry Zone,
a nursery in Colombo for the sale of plants, and seed garden (isolated) for
production of improved planting material. CRI operates an International
Coconut Information Centre funded by the International Research and
Development Centre, Canada. CRI is headed by a Director and is assisted by a
Deputy Director (Research) and 37 scientists.
2.34      Research under crop protection, especially biological control work,
has made good progress. This has made considerable impact on commercial
production. Though it is well known that farmers are not using adequate
doses of fertilizer, no studies have been carried out to assess the reasons.
Not much progress has been achieved in breeding and the tall x dwarf and
tall x tall hybrids have not found much acceptance among farmers. Research
on coconut intercropping is inadequate. There is no feed-back mechanism to
increase awareness of farmers' problems.
2.35      National Aquatic Resources Agency (NARA).  NARA, established in
1981, is a statutory body under the Ministry of Fisheries and functions under
a Board. The Board is responsible for general policy guidance and for the
provision and control of funds. NARA's Director General is assisted by about
40 scientists. Research operating funds are inadequate. Current research
programs include work on marine biology, inland fisheries and aquaculture,
post-harvest technology, oceanography and engineering technology. Though
recently established, the institution is making reasonably good progress in
the development of dominant varieties of tuna fisheries, small pelagic (sur-
face) prawn, and mud-crab fisheries; and on the growth and physiology of
mussels, shrimp, oyster, and sardines. Hydrologic and oceanographic studies
are being carried out.
2.36      University Research.  There are three Universities under the
Ministry of Higher Education that are involved in agricultural research.



-11~-
These are: (a) the University of Peradeniya's faculties relating to agricul-
ture, veterinary medicine and animal studies, and the Postgraduate Institute
of Agriculture (PGIA); (b) the University of Ruhuna, Faculty of Agriculture;
and (c) University of Batticaloa, Faculty of Agriculture. The University of
Peradeniya's Faculty of Agriculture has about 100 staff members and a sizable
experimental farm. Within the next few years all staff members are expected
to have M.Sc. or Ph.D. degrees; the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine has about
25 staff of whom about 11 have Ph.D. degrees. The smaller Faculties of
Agriculture at Ruhuna and Batticaloa together have about 50 staff members.
PGIA reports to a Board of which the Vice Chancellor of the University of
Deradeniya and the Director of Agriculture are members.
2.37      PGIA, established in 1975, provides training and research at three
levels, each represented by a postgraduate degree: One-year M.Sc. degree
(without thesis), two-year M.Phil. degree; and a three-year Ph.D. degree.
The annual intake of students at PGIA is about 70 (mostly one year M.Sc.
candidates). Funding for teaching at PGIA comes from several sources,
including DOA which sponsors members of its own staff. PGIA has beer, doing a
commendable job.
2.38      The universities receive funds for teaching from the University
Grants Commission. They do not have a specific mandate for research. The
present research funding, which comes from the Ministry of Higher Education,
is grossly inadequate and although well qualified, staff members are not able
to contribute to the national research effort.
2.39      The Office of the President.  The Natural Resources, Energy and
Science Authority (NARESA), constituted by an Act of Parliament in 1981,
reports directly to the President. The main objectives of NARESA are to:
(a) advise the President on policies concerning science, natural resource
development, and energy; (b) initiate and sponsor research in these areas;
(c) collect and disseminate information; and (d) study and report on matters
of importance regarding science and technology, natural resources and energy.
The main contribution of NARESA to agricultural research so far has been to
allocate funds to energy and natural resources development in a few research
institutions.
Research-Extension Linkages
2.40      Under the ongoing IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Project (Cr. 931-CE), the training and visit system (T&V) of exten-
sion has been introduced throughout the country. This extension system,
modified to suit Sri Lankan conditions, is well in place. In adopting the
system, DOA introduced: systematic visits by extension staff to meet farmers
on their fields; working through contact farmers and other farmers; a
simplified reporting system; fortnightly training of extension staff and
monthly research-extension dialogue; frequent in-service training facilities
for extension staff; and greater emphasis on on-farm adaptive research



-12-
activities. Another significant development is the increased collaboration
between research and extension staff through the organization of Regional
Technical Working Groups (RTWG) at each RRC. Each RTWG meets twice a year,
before the two main cropping seasons, to discuss field problems and research
results, plan future research programs, and decide on extension recommenda-
tions. Adaptive research in each agroecological region is focused on local
problems. The program for research at each RRC and adaptive research on
farmers' fields are determined for tLe most part by research staff in con-
sultation with the extension staff. In addition, monthly research extension
dialogues with scientists, subject matter officers, and senior district
agricultural staff are held at RRCs to discuss field problems and prepare
lesson plans for fortnightly training.
2.41      The combination of T&V extension and the regional research program
has resulted in the establishment of a well-built institutional base for
extension work and research-extension collaboration. The next step would be
to consolidate the extension system and bring about qualitative improvements
by way of: (a) deepening and widening the extension coverage to include
support for horticulture, minor export crops, coconut, sugarcane, and water
management; (b) improving the quality of training and field visits; and
(c) further strengthening of research-extension linkages.
2.42      Extension support for tea, rubber, and coconuts is, respectively,
the responsibility of the Tea Smallholdings Development Authority (TSHDA),
the Advisory Services Department (ASD) of the Ministry of Plantation
Industries, and the Coconut Development Authority (CDA). In each agency,
most of the time of field staff is spent on input-related activities. The
Department of Minor Export Crops, Department of Animal Production and Health,
and the Ministry of Fisheries each have their own extension services. Some
success has been achieved in integrating the extension support for coconuts
and minor export crops with that of DOA's extension service.
C. Problems and Constraints
2.43      Research Infrastructure.  Except coconut and tea research
institutes, and a few DOA stations, others do not have enough space for
laboratory and office buildings. Housing for scientists and support staff is
generally lacking, because incremental staff were added without a propor-
tionate increase in housing. As most of the research institutions are
located in interior areas, rental housing is either unavailable, too expen-
sive or distant. Except in case of TRI and RRI, maintenance of buildings is
roor due to inadequate operational funds.
2.44      The availability of laboratory and other equipment ranges from less
than minimum to reasonably good. DOA experiences difficulty in repairing
equipment and machinery due to shortage of funds (local and foreign
exchange). In the absence of standby generators, voltage stabilizers, and



-13-
air conditioners, laboratory equipment is often operated under less than
optimal conditions, thus causing serious damage. In some instances,
operators lack sufficient training to handle equipment and machinery. Also
due to insufficient funds, laboratory and field supplies (glassware, chemi-
cals, fertilizers, pesticides, etc.) are not regularly available and in time.
For the widely dispersed network of research institutions, regional research
centers, and field stations, a good telephone communication system is essen-
t al, but the present facilities are inadequate.
2.45      The best libraries are available at coconut, tea, rubber, and
aquatic research institutions. Libraries at RRCs of DOA and other institu-
tions are below the standards needed to support a viable research effort.
CARI has reasonably good facilities for indexing and abstracting of journals,
but they are not operational due to shortage of funds.
2.46      Research Manpower.  Sri Lanka has about 500 agricultural research
personnel (78 Ph.D., 153 M.Sc., and 269 B.Sc. degree holders). Initial
recruitment of scientists is at the level of B.Sc. Agriculture/B.Sc. allied
sciences resulting in staff inadequately trained in reseatch methodology.
Scientists now require post-graduate qualifications for promotion according
to GOSL policy. A good start has been made at developing a local
post-graduate training capacity at PGIA (mainly a one-year M.Sc. program),
but this effort needs to be supplemented by university training abroad to
provide a core of qualified staff. The number of laboratory and field sup-
port staff is about 1.3 per scientist, compared to a requirement of 2 or 3.
2.47      Economic Aspects of Research.  Present research activities do not
include an analysis of the cost and returns involved nor the reasons for
adoption or rejection of new technology. There are about 16 agricultural
economists in DOA (10 at RRCs and 6 at DOA headquarters), but they are con-
cerned only with collection of farm production data from farmers' fields.
Other research institutions do not have economists.
2.48      Farming Systems Research.  With agricultural research dispersed
amongst several ministries and research institutions, some important problems
of farmers fall within the jurisdiction of two or more minis-
tries/institutions. Since complexity of the farming system and its interac-
tion with component technologies or commodities cannot be handled by a single
institute, farmers' problems often remain unaddressed.
2.49      Lack of Operational Funds.  Agricultural research is invariably
short of operational funds resulting in fewer experiments and underutiliza-
tion of manpower and other facilities. Increase in funding for research over
the last several years has been accounted for by increased capital expendi-
ture and staff salaries. Fixed commitments have taken priority in recurrent
budgets, and operational expenditure has become a residual item bearing the
brunt of budgetary cuts. In addition, increase in staff has taken place in
DOA without a corresponding increase in operating costs. As a consequence,



-14-
in most research institutions (except in the tree crop subsector), the
average level of operating funds available per scientist is about US$1,600
(for laboratory expenses, costs of inputs, labor and other operating needs)
per year which is low compared to countries like India, Pakistan, Indonesia,
and Thailand. GOL has decided to increase the operational funds per scien-
tist to about US$2,600 which is reasonable. Accordingly, it was estimated at
appraisal that the present gap between budgetary allocations for research
operating funds and actual requirements is about Rs 12.6 M (US$0.5 M)
annually.
2.50      The project would address the above problems and constraints.
D. Bank Operations in Agriculture
2.51      The Bank/IDA has supported agricultural development in Sri Lanka
with 23 projects. Total lending for agriculture amounted to about US$530.4 M
over the period 1968 to present.
2.52      The Mahaweli Ganga Development Project, Stage I (Ln. 653-CE) was
the first of a series of projects planned and completed under the Mahaweli
Ganga Water Master Plan. Although project implementation was delayed by two
years, the OED Report (No. 3730) noted that the project was economically and
socially successful. The Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II (Cr. 701-CE)
is expected to exceed SAR projected production targets. The Mahaweli Canga
Technical Assistance (Cr. 979-CE) provides for consultant support studies and
designs required for the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program. The Mahaweli
Ganga Development Project III (Cr. 1166-CE) is progressing reasonably well.
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year.
2.53      IDA Credit for Lift Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE) was expected to
increase irrigated area and increase production of onions and chillies. The
OED Report (No. 2801) noted that the project had failed to achieve its main
objectives. The Village Irrigation Rehabilitation (Cr. 1160-CE) and Major
Irrigation Rehabilitation (Cr. 1537-CE) project have helped increase the
irrigated area. The Drainage and Land Reclamation Project (Cr. 168-CE) has
helped increase water control. The OED Report (No. 2798) noted that while
the project was a success from the technical and engineering point of view,
yields were below what was expected at appraisal due to less double-cropping
and lower yields. The Tree Crop Diversification Project (Cr. 819-CE) was
expected to diversify, rehabilitate, and resettle about 11,500 ha of marginal
tea land and other wasteland. The OhD Report (No. 5041) noted that the
overall project objectives as set out at appraisal were not achieved. The
Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Cr. 818-CE), Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation
(Cr. 1017-CE), Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification (Cr. 1240-CE), and the
Fourth Tree Crops (Cr. 1562-CE) deal principally with the development of tree
crops. Management of these projects is mostly good. Kurunegala Rural
Development (Cr. 891-CE) and the Second Rural Development (Cr. 1079-CE)
involve extension to smallholders for crop production as part of rural



-15-
infrastructure development. The Third Rural Development Project
(Cr. 1363-CE) deals with rehabilitation of irrigation tanks, forests and
horticultural development, input supply, and development of economic and
social infras-ructure. After a good beginning progress has deteriorated
because of security problems in the project area. The Dairy Development
Project (Cr. 504-CE) supported development of dairy producer cooperatives
which would supply inputs and services and improved marketing. The OED
Report (No. 5045) noted that while the project failed in its production and
marketing objectives, its primary achievement was institutional in nature
(producer cooperative component). The recently started Dairy Development II
(Ln. 2776-CE) seeks to provide support for the long-term development of
dairying. The Forest Resources Development Project (Cr. 1317-CE) helps in
the development of the Forestry Master Plan and improving training and educa-
tion. Work on implementation of the plantation program is slow due to insur-
gency activity (Batticaloa and Amparai). The Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 595-CE) provided foreign exchange mostly for the import of
trucks, tractors, farm equipment, and spare parts. The project was never
fully completed and the credit was closed with a cancellation of about 17%.
The OED Report (No. 3272) noted that despite the problems that beset the
project, benefits, though difficult to measure, have been significant and
close to the appraisal estimates. The Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Project (Cr. 931-CE) has helped introduce T&V system of agricultural
extension and strengthen research-extension linkages (paras 2.40 and 2.41).
The Credit became effective on October 4, 1979. Project start-up was
delayed, but picked up later. The Credit Closing Date was extended by one
year up to June 30, 1986. The Credit has since closed. Project progress
has been satisfactory: the reorganized extension system is in position; the
quality of extension work has improved; research-extension linkages have been
strengthened as a result of the regular meetings of RTWG, organization of
monthly dialogues, and the adaptive research program. These efforts have
resulted in the development of technical recommendations based on farmers'
problems and constraints.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
3.01      Sri Lanka has substantial agricultural research capability that has
evolved over the last three decades. Significant progress has been made in
improving production of some commodities, especially rice. However, with
responsibility for agricultural research scattered, there is no forum in
which national needs can be translated into a rational research program and
no mechanism by which limited available resources can be allocated to
programs with highest priority. As a result, Sri Lanka does not have an
organizational base for planning agricultural research to: (a) define
national goals; (b) state such goals in terms that can be used to identify
and define problems needing research; (c) establish priorities among defined



-16-
problems; and (d) assign specific responsibilities and recommend allocation
of resources to organizations responsible for doing research.
3.02      The rationale for Bank involvement is to provide the necessary
direction to Sri Lanka's agricultural research to overcome the problems
arising out of the fragmentation of research among several ministries who
have their own vested interests to protect, and move towards an integration
of research efforts and develop a research strategy, so as to remove the
present imbalances in the overall research program and the relative neglect
of research in priority areas.
B. Project Objectives and Main Features
3.03      The principal objective of the proposed project would be to raise
farmers' incomes by increasing agricultural production through the develop-
ment of better varieties, and improving husbandry practices and farming
systems that are aimed at responding to farmers' regionally specific
problems. This would be accomplished through the establishment of a Council
of Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) with appropriate authority to formu-
late, through a National Agricultural Research Plan, an overall strategy for
research and set national research policy and priorities for allocation of
resources; recommend allocation of funds for planned implementation of
research programs; and strengthen critical linkages between research
activities which are currently dispersed among many institutions. The
project would also focus on developing the human resource base and institu-
tional framework needed to carry out relevant agricultural research; it would
be a first phase of a long-term effort to build up this techrical capability.
New research priorities would emerge as a result of the National Agricultural
Research Plan to be formulated with financing from this project. Systems of
annual planning and review to be established under the project would ensure
that research allocations are made according to relative priorities of con-
tending programs.
3.04      The main features of the project are as follows:
(i)  the establishment of a Council of Agricultural
Research Policy (CARP) to recommend to GOSL actions
concerning research strategy, policies, priorities, and
funding;
(ii)  strengthening of research station facilities by
*ay of civil works and equipment, and library
development;
(iii)  improvement of technical capacity of researchers
through manpower development and technical
assistance;



-17-
(iv) introduction of a contract research program to
finance research activities;
(v) establishment of a Headquarter Research Planning
Cell in DOA and a Project Management Unit in
MADR, to coordinate project implementation;
(vi) provision for incremental staff and operating costs;
(vii) introduction of research planning and evaluation
procedures; and
(viii) improvement of research - extension linkages.
C. Detailed Features
Council of Agricultural Research Policy
3.05      A Council of Agricultural Research Policy (CARP), broadly repre-
sentative of Sri Lanka's interests in agricultural development would be
constituted under the project. CARP would function under the Ministry of
Agricultural Development and Research (MADR). However, CARP would have the
authority independently of MADR to submit to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning its recommendations on research programs and priorities. This
independent role of CARP was clarified and agreed with the Government during
negotiations. The members of CARP would be appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture and comprise the following: one Secretary of a Ministry con-
cerned with agriculture; one representat;ve of the Ministry of Finance and
Planning; one representative from NARESA (para 2,39); three Directors of
research institutions (one each for perennial crops, annual crops, and live-
stock production, forestry and fisheries); three representatives of producers
and processors (one elected from the Chamber of Commerce, one nominated by
the Ministries in charge of the Janatha Estate Development Board and State
Plantations Corporation, and one nominated by the President to represent
smallholders producing food crops); one representative from the universities;
one senior scientist of distinction; and one Executive Secretary
(ex-officio). Such representation would enable CARP to make policy recommen-
dations reflecting a broad consensus of views.
3.06      The Chairman of CARP would be appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture on the recommendation of the Council, to be elected from among
its members. CARP would meet at least once every three months. To carry out
its responsibilities in an effective manner, CARP would be assisted by a
Secretariat headed by an Executive Secretary who would be the Chief Executive
and full-time officer of CARP. The Minister of Agriculture, after advertise-
ment of the post and on the recommeniation of CARP, would appoint the
Executive Secretary. The Secretariat would be responsible to assist CARP in
developing the National Agricultural Research Plan jointly with the research



-18-
institutions and eminent scientists available in the country, arranging for
review and appraisal of annual research programs of research institutions and
making recommendations to the Ministry of Finance and Planning for provision
of funds, and carrying out periodic reviews of the research system. Under
the project, provisions would be made for expatriate and local consultants in
CARP (para 3.16). The project would include the construction of CARP's
headquarters building, purchase of vehicles and equipment, salaries and
benefits of the Executive Secretary, four senior scientists, an economist, a
statistical officer, information officer, eight researci/administrative
staff, and other support staff and operating costs. Details are at Annex 2,
Table 9.
3.07      As a condition of Board Presentation of the proposed project, an
Act for establishing CARP has been approved by the Sri Lanka Cabinet of
Ministers. As a condition of Credit Effectiveness: (i) the Act establishing
CARP would have been approved by the Sri Lanka Parliament, and (ii) GOSL
would have appointed the members of CARP, the Executive Secretary, and core
staff comprising two senior scientists, and support staff.
3.08      Currently, agricultural research is spread among many ministries
the distribution of which has been determined in some cases by political and
bureaucratic considerations. Research institutions for coconut, tea, rubber,
and fisheries are statutory bodies. Furthermore, there seems little
likelihood in the immediate future of the unification of development minis-
tries relating to agriculture. Providing CARP with wide executive powers at
this stage would require substantial changes in the present ministerial
organization such as change of legislation in respect of coconut, tea, rub-
ber, and fisheries research institutions which are covered by separate Acts,
and a long period of readjustment by-research staff. Although higher execu-
tive authority should eventually be granted to CARP so that it could actually
distribute funds for agricultural research allocated to it by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, this can only be done in stages, taking into account
that CARP still needs to be established and has to demonstrate its leadership
capability and authority. Therefore, CARP initially would be responsible for
developing national agricultural research policies, strategy and priorities,
and reviewing research programs of different institutions and making recom-
mendations for their funding, independently of MADR, to the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. With this in view, CARP would have the following
responsibilities:
(i)  Advise the Government on all matters concerning the organiza-
tion, coordination, planning, and implementation of research
in agriculture, livestock production, forestry, fisheries and
agro-industries;
(ii) Formulate national agricultural research policies and
priorities; define the aims and scope of the overall research
program in agriculture and allied services to support national



-19-
goals of agricultural development; and advise on the finan-
cial, manpower, and physical resources required by different
organizations and institutions to carry out the program.
(iii) Review and approve the research programs of different research
institutions and make recommendations to the Ministry of
Finance and Planning concerning priorities and funding;
(iv) Arrange and fund inter-ministerial agricultural research
projects;
(v) Arrange and fund selected specialized scientific services for
the agricultural research sector;
(vi) Arrange funding for postgraduate training for agricultural
research staff, and for interchange of scientists with distin-
guished research centers; and
(vii) Arrange for the review and evaluation of agricultural research
projects, institutes, and research divisions from time to
time.
3.09      CARP will play a major role in preparation of the National
Agricultural Research Plan and Status Review Reports, and in the annual
review and approval of the total research effort (paras 4.03 to 4.08). CARP
would also coordinate the preparation of annual research reports by different
institutions and would be responsible for preparing a consolidated annual
research report for the country, and frequent evaluation of research programs
(paras 4.21 to 4.23), and preparation of a manpower development plan
(para 4.13).
Strengthening of Research Station Facilities
3.10      This component would include:  rehabilitation and cons'ruction of
research station buildings and required housing, including research station
development; provision for scientific and other equipment, accessories and
spares, and vehicles; and improvement of library facilities. These invest-
ments would cover 18 research institutions (except the two RRCs located at
Killinochchi and Karadian Aru in the north and northeast respectively), the
Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA, the Project Management Unit and
CARP Secretariat. While assessing the above requirements, care has been
taken to exclude items on which investment is being made through other donor
assisted projects. A list of institutions included for strengthening is
given in Annex 1, Page 4.



-20-
3.11      Civil Works.  Civil works would include laboratory, administrative
and library buildings; storage and workshop facilities; glasshouses and
screen houses; provision of utilities such as water supply, sewage and com-
munication facilities; 186 units of staff housing; research farm development;
and renovation/improvement to existing buildings. These activities would
cover different research institutions and the Headquarter Research Planning
Cell of DOA. An administrative building for CARP Secretariat would also be
included. Land for construction of all buildings (except CARP) is available
at research stations. Sites have been selected and tested. Water supply and
other utilities are available and would be supplemented to meet new require-
ments. New land would be acquired for construction of an administrative
building for CARP. Agreement was reached during negotiations that GOSL
would, by December 31, 1987, make available land in Colombo for construction
of an administrative building for CARP. Standard building designs and
estimates are available for research station civil works. Civil works
estimates have been prepared after a review of existing estimates and updat-
ing them to October 1986. GOSL would hire a firm of architects/engineers for
refining of designs and estimates of buildings, prequalification of contrac-
tors, preparation of bidding documents, scrutiny of bids, and supervision of
construction. The total base costs of civil works, including architect fees,
would be about Rs 142 M (US$5.2 M). Details are at Annex 2, Table 3.
3.12      Vehicles, Equipment and Library Facilities.  Under the project,
funds would be provided for the purchase of about 87 vehicles (14 cars,
23 jeeps, 10 vans, 4 buses and 36 motorcycles) for use at research stations,
Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA, Project Management Unit, and CARP
Secretariat. Funds would be provided for the needed laboratory equipment
including optical equipment and balances, centrifuges, foliar and soil
analysis equipment, heating and cooling equipment, mixers, physiological and
pathological equipment, and glassware. A list of laboratory equipment needed
for each institute has been prepared (Details in Project File, Itein 6).
Other equipment to be funded would be six 4-wheel and twelve 2-wheel trac-
tots, farm equipment and workshop tools, furniture and office equipment.
These would include strengthening of the DOA equipment maintenance and repair
unit at CARI, Gonnoruwa and Maha Illuppallama regional research centers. The
total base costs of vehicles, machinery and equipment would be about
Rs 69.3 M (US$2.5 M).
3.13      Library facilities in terms of books, journals and equipment would
be strengthened at all research institutions (Project File, Item 7). In DOA,
because of the high cost of journals and books, only basic minimum facilities
would be developed at all RRCs, except CARI, Gonnoruwa. At CARI Gonnoruwa,
the proposed investment would be higher to strengthen the existing documenta-
tion facilities, subscribe to a wider range of journals, and purchase more
books. CARI would, thus, be able to service all DOA research stations and
other institutions by providing indexes of current journals and responding to
requests for reprints. This would minimize recurring investment after the
life of the project. Additional accommodation would be added to the existing



-21-
library building at CARI. The total base costs of library development would
be about Rs 7 M (US$0.3 M). Details of equipment and library facilities are
at Annex 2, Table 4.
Improvement of Technical Capacity of Scientists
3.14      Manpower Development.  Based on a careful analysis of institutional
requirements, the project would give priority to foster career development
which would include M.Sc. and Ph.D. level courses at institutions abroad and
PGIA. It is recognized by GOSL that: (a) research staff should obtain a
masters degree early in their career for further advancement; (b) greater
specialization should be provided in specific disciplines by increasing the
number of scientists with Ph.D. degrees; (c) established senior scientists
should participate in short-term courses at international and other overseas
institutions on research administration and other technical matters; and
(d) technical support staff should receive short-term training in operation,
maintenance and repair of equipment. To help achieve the above objectives
and to overcome the present shortage of trained manpower (para 2.46), the
project would include provision for both degree and non-degree training,
consisting of:
(i) postgraduate training at Ph.D. level for senior research staff and
at M.Sc. level for research officers, to provide them with the
necessary academic depth to undertake research in their respective
specialties;
(ii) short visits to research institutions abroad to broaden experience
and learn new practices;
(iii) short-term management and technical (abroad and in-country) courses
in order to:
- upgrade managers' skills in planning and management of research
programs and practical management techniques;
- orient research staff toward farming system concepts, evaluation
of research in relation to farming system practices and interac-
tion with extension and farmers;
- provide senior staff with technically specialized knowledge and
skills; and
- provide in-country training to support staff (laboratory tech-
nicians, equipment operators, equipment workshop staff) for
developing skills in the operation, maintenance, and repair of
scientific and other equipment.



-22-
3.15      The project would include alout 212 fellowships--26 for
Ph.D. degree (foreign), 76 for M.Sc. degree (50 foreign and 26 local) and
110 short-term courses (77 foreign and 33 local). In addition, funds would
be provided for study tours (CARP), organization of seminars, workshops, and
conferences at RRCs, other research institutions, and at the national level.
CARP would coordinate the implementation of the fellowship program and
short-term training courses outside the country. All fellowships and train-
ing will be advertised and research institutions would make their recommenda-
tions to CARP for approval. A list of disciplines selected for fellowships
based on identified needs is given at Annex 2, Table 6. A detailed list of
fellowships and other short-term training rneeds (for each discipline) at each
research institution has been prepared (Project Pile, Item 8). The list of
fellowships and other foreign training programs to be granted in the first
project year is satisfactory. A similar list for short-term local training
has been prepared for the first project year which is satisfactory. The
total base cost of the manpower development program would be about Rs 105 M
(US$3.8 M). Details are at Annex 2, Table 5.
3.16      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be essential for
planning and implementation of parts of the project. Considerable special-
ized expertise is available in Sri Lanka--in universities, in some government
departments, and among retired scientists. Local expertise would be used
wherever possible. Expatriate assistance would be provided in areas where
local expertise is not available. About 124 man-months of technical assis-
tance would be financed under the project, of which about 54 man-months are
for expatriate consultants and 70 for local consultants. The Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has agreed to provide a grant for the
technical assistance requirements of the project. Details are as follows:
Expatriate       Local
Consultants   Consultants
man-months-            ---
Research Planning and Budgeting                   12               -
Research Management                               21               -
Research Evaluation                                6               -
CARP Administration and Management                 6               -
Pasture and Fodder Crops                           3               -
Farming Systems                                    6               -
Assisting CARP in:
Preparation of National Research Plan,
Review and Approval of Annual Research Plans   -                70
and Evaluation of Research Work
54             70
The total base cost of the technical assistance program would be about
Rs 19 M (US$0.7 N). Details are at Annex 2, Table 7.



-23-
Contract Research Program
3.17      Under contract research, funds would be made available to research
institutions and eminent scientists to conduct specific research on
problems/activities identified as urgently needed to support national
agricultural development goals. The research programs would be designed to
tackle questions of practical nature as identified in the National
Agricultural Research Plan. Funds provided under this program would be used
to conduct research either singly, or in collaboration with the scientists in
the same institution or other institutions, or on farmers' fields. This
program would also enable the university scientists to contribute to the
national research effort. Four broad types of activities t-ould be funded.
(i) Applied Research. Expansion of ongoing applied research at
research institutions on commodities and production factors and
initiation of new research programs; 1/
(ii)  Interministerial and Collaborative Research.  These would cover
research on: (a) coconut intercropping; (b) crop-livestock
integration in the rainfed Dry Zone; and (c) other cropping and
farming systems research; 2/
(iii) Special Research Programs. These would include special research
programs not covered by (i) and (ii) above, such as basic research
and agricultural economics research relevant to national agricul-
tural research priorities and carried out by: (a) the university
research system; (b) distinguished and proven scientists; and
(c) agricultural economics research by ARTI and other organizations
in Sri Lanka; 2/ and
(iv)  Adaptive Research trials to be carried out on farmers' fields to
evaluate, refine, and modify as necessary the technologies
developed at research-stations. 1/
3.18      Initially, research contracts would support some ongoing activities
as well as new initiatives resulting from the draft National Agricultural
Research Plan (NARP). Thereafter, they would be confined to work included in
the final NARP document (para 4.04). An outline of guidelines for prepara-
tion and approval of research proposals is in the Project File, Item 2. CARP
1/ Funding would only cover research operating costs such as input needs,
laboratory requirements, labor and other recurring expenditure.
2/ Funding would cover all expenditure excluding civil works, but including
some capital and mostly incremental recurring costs.



-24-
would play a key role in providing final guidelines for preparation of
research proposals, examining and approving individual proposals, and
monitoring implementation. The planning procedure and time frame for
preparation of research proposals by different institutions and review and
approval by CARP before recommending to the Ministry of Finance and Planning
for funding, are outlined at paras 4.03 - 4.08. Funds for contract research
would thereafter be released to different institutions by the Project Manage-
ment Unit. The allocations for contract research shown in Annex 2, Table 8,
are indicative only and actual funding to institutions would be made accord-
ing to the outcome of the final NARP, priorities therein, and CARP review
process. The total base cost of contract research would be about Rs 120.5 M
(US$4.4 M).
Headquarter Research Planning Cell (DOA)
3.19      The Deputy Director (Research) in DOA (para 2.18) is presently
assisted by three research officers. Under the project, a Headquarter
Research Planning Cell would be established in DOA to assist the Deputy
Director (Research) in introducing efficient research planning and management
measures in all DOA research institutions and coordinating and supervising
project implementation in these institutions. Staff support and other
facilities for the Deputy Director are inadequate to ensure the above and,
therefore, would be strengthened by incremental staff specified in Annex 2,
Table 10; and civil works, vehicles, and equipment (paras 3.11 and 3.12).
Project Management Unit (MADR)
3.20      Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with
the Secretary, MADR assisted by a Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a
Project Manager. The project would include the establishment of PMU consist-
ing of a Project Manager, Project Coordinators, Procurement Officer, Civil
Engineer, Accounts Officer, Training Coordinator, Statistician, and support
staff, and incremental operating costs (Annex 2, Table 11); and vehicles,
office equipment and furniture (para 3.12). PMU would be assisted by a firm
of consultant architects to implement the civil works program. PMU would be
a temporary feature and would function for the duration of the project. The
responsibilities of PMU are given in para 4.11.
Incremental Staff and Operating Costs
3.21      GOSL research institutions are reasonably well provided with
research staff. However, there is a shortfall of technical suppcrt staff
(para 2.46). Based on a review of existing staff strength at each institu-
tion and the specific areas/disciplines (e.g., agricultural economics) need-
ing strengthening, and the capacity of COSL to meet the long-term financial
commitment on such staff, the project would include a modest increase in the
number of scientists (34). The increase in technical support staff (82)
would help raise the ratio of scientists to support staff from 1:1.3 to 1:2



-25-
and also enable each scientist to carry out more experiments. The project
would also include incremental administrative staff (53) for research
institutions. Details are given in the Project File, Items 9 and 10. The
phased requirement of incremental staff is at Annex 2, Table 12. The total
base cost for incremental staff and operating funds under the project would
be about Rs 61 M (US$2.2 M).
Research-Extension Linkages
3.22      Existing research-extension linkages in DOA through organization of
RTWG meetings, monthly extension-research dialogues, and other informal
contacts, would be further improved under the project (para 4.16). The
proposed adaptive research program would enable research scientists and
extension staff to test research results under farmers conditions and make
suitable adjustments to research recommendations (para 4.17). Each research
institution/RRC would identify a Diagnostic Team to maintain close contact
with farmers and develop a better awareness of their problems (para 4.18).
Status of Project Preparation
3.23      A list of laboratory equipment items required for each research
institution was finalized at appraisal. Most of the vehicles, machinery and
other equipment required have been identified. All land for civil works
construction is available at research stations, except for CARP headquarters
building, which would be located in Colombo. Land allocation for CARP head-
quarters would be completed by December 31, 1987. Standard designs and
estimates are available for research station civil works. A firm of
architects/engineers would be hired by GOSL, prior to Credit Effectiveness,
to refine civil works design and estimates, complete prequalification of
contractors, prepare bidding documents, and also supervise construction.
Details of training needs at each research institution (discipline-wise) have
been worked out and training institutions are being identified. The list of
fellowships and short-term foreign training to be granted in the first year
has been prepared and is satisfactory. Similarly, short-term local training
list for the first year has been prepared and local training institutions
identified. Civil works construction is expected to start in December 1987.
An implementation schedule is given at Annex 5.
D. Project Costs
3.24      The total cost of the project with a nine-year implementacion
period, is estimated at US$26.5 M, including taxes and duties estimated at
about US$830,000. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US$13.4 M or 51% of total project costs. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at the rate of 10% on civil works and 15% on equipment, books and
publications resulting in an overall average amounting to 5% of base costs.
Price contingencies (34% of base costs) have been applied in accordance with
estimates of expected inflation rates in Sri Lanka (local prices at 10%



-26-
during 1987; 9% during 1988; 8% during 1989; 7.6% during 1990; and 4.5%
during 1991 and onwards; and foreign prices at 7% during 1987; 7.5% during
1988; 7.7% during 1989; 7.6% during 1990; and 4.5% during 1991 and onwards).
Project base costs are updated to October 1986. The project would require a
total of 124 man-months (54 foreign and 70 local) of consulting services.
Details of project cost are at Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2, and are summarized
below:
Table 3.1:       Summary of Project Costs
------Rs Million-           US$ Million-----
% of Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Base Costs
Civil Works                  93.9    48.1   142.0    3.4    1.8        5.2       27.2
Vehicles and Equipment        10.5    65.8    76.3    0.4    2.4       2.8       14.6
Fellowships and Training      5.1    99.5   104.6    0.2    3.6        3.8       20.0
Technical Assistance           1.0    17.9    18.9    0.1    0.6       0.7        3.6
Contract Research            84.3    36.2   120.5    3.0    1.4        4.4       23.0
Incremental Staff            41.1        -    41.1    1.5        -     1.5        7.9
Incremental Operating        13.8      5.9    19.7    0.5    0.2       0.7        3.7
Total Base Cost             249.7   273.4   523.1    9.1   10.0    19.1         100.0
Physical Contingencies       11.4    14.8    26.2    0.4    0.5        0.9        5.0
Price Contingencies          98.9    79.0   177.9    3.6    2.9        6.5       34.0
Total Project Cost          360.0   367.2   727.2   13.1   13.4    26.5         139.0
_=== =a== ====-=2: ===    ===2:==
E. Project Financing
3.25      The proposed IDA credit of US$18.6 M would finance 70% of project
costs. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), through its
technical assistance organization (GTZ), intends to cofinance (on a grant
basis) 100% of the cost of technical assistance, amounting to US$0.8 M. The
execution of the cofinancing document would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness and the document would specify that if German specialists in
specific areas are not available, FRG grants would be utilized for hiring
specialists of other nationalities. The IDA credit and FRG grant would
finance 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$13.4 M), 46% of local costs
(US$6.0 M), and 73% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. GOSL
contribution to the project would be about US$7.1 M including about
US$830,000 of taxes and duties. Details are summarized below.



-27-
Table 3.2: Proposed Financing
Foreign Exchange       Local Currency         Total
US$ M       X          US$ M      X         US$ M   X
IDA             12.7         95          5.9      45         18.6    70
FRG              0.7          5          0.1       1          0.8     3
GOSL                -         -          7.1      54          7.1    27
13.4       100         13.1     100         26.5   100
IDA funds would be channeled through the Ministry of Finance and Planning
(MOFP) to the Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) of MADR would manage the project funds and make alloca-
tions to participating institutions. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that GOSL would (a) make adequate budget provision with MADR each
year for implementation of the project, and (b) upon completion of the
project, retain incremental research and support staff, and maintain the same
level of expenditures for research activities.
3.26      In order to ensure an early start of the project, retroactive
financing of about US$150,000 would be made available for expenditures that
would be incurred after June 1, 1986 for establishing PMU, hiring a firm of
architects/engineers, and to meet the cost of a few foreign fellowships.
F. Procurement
3.27      The main items to be financed with the IDA credit are:  civil
works, farm machinery, vehicles, laboratory and office equipment; training
and technical assistance; contract research; and salaries and operating
costs. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table given below.



-28-
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Total
ICB        LCB        Other       N/A        Cost
--------------------US$ Million-----------------
Civil Works                -         7.7          -            -        7.7
(5.0)                              (5.0)
Equipment, vehicles      3.8         0.5         0.1           -        4.4
and furniture         (3.8)       (0.2)       (0.1)                  (4.1)
Training                   -           -           -         4.8        4.8
(4.8)     (4.8)
Technical Assistance       -           -          0.8 /a       -        0.8
(0.0)                 (0.0)
Contract Research        0.3 /b        -           -         5.3        5.6
(0.3)                               (3.1)     (3.4)
Incremental Staff and      -           -          -          3.2        3.2
Operating Costs                                           (1.3)      (1.3)
Total         4.1         8.2          0.9        13.3      26.5
(4.1)      (5.2)        (0.1)       (9.2)    (18.6)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit.
/a Financed by FRG.
7T Includes vehicles and equipment.
3.28      Civil works.  Project civil works and farm development (about
US$7.7 M) would consist mainly of construction of houses, some office and
laboratory buildings, station roads and fencing, and provision of water
supply, minor drainage works, and land levelling. Work would be scattered at
about 18 sites throughout the country and over the project period. As
designs would be simple and construction techniques labor intensive, such
contracts would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB)
and would be let through local competitive bidding (LCB) in which foreign
bidders could participate. Works at research stations would be bulked into
suitable contract bidding packages. A firm of architects/engineers would be



-29-
hired to refine the existing designs and estimates, prepare bidding docu-
ments, and supervise construction. Suitable local construction firms exist
in sufficient numbers to ensure adequate competition.
3.29      Equipment, Vehicles, Materials and Services.  Procurement of equip-
ment, vehicles, and furniture (about US$4.7 M) would be bulked to the extent
possible, with compatible contract packages. Scientific equipment, farm
equipment and machinery and vehicles would be procured through ICB in accord-
ance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f
price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers of such items in the evaluation of bids.
Contracts for miscellaneous items and spares grouped in packages estimated to
cost less than US$30,000 for each contract and totalling in cost
approximately US$500,000 would be procured under LCB. Items costing less
than US$10,000 for each contract, and totalling in cost approximately
US$100,000 would be procured through prudent shopping. GOSL procedures are
satisfactory. Contracts for vehicles, farm machinery, and equipment would
require the supplier to maintain adequate after-sales inventory of spare
parts. Books and publications would be procured through direct purchase from
sole suppliers or by competitive shopping where several suppliers are avail-
able.
3.30      Contract Review.  About 100 bidding packages are anticipated for
contracts let under the project. Most of these would be for civil works and
equipment. Bidding documents for civil works contracts costing US$100,000 or
more and for machinery, equipment, vehicles and other goods and services
costing US$50,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for review prior to
bidding and award. This would result in about 15% of contracts, covering 40%
of the value of all contracts, being subject to prior review. In implement-
ing the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
(Cr. 931-CE), the Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research has
become familiar with IDA's requirements for preparation of bidding documents,
and bid evaluation and disbursement procedures, and their performance has
been satisfactory. MADR would be the implementing agency of the proposed
project and in view of this, prior review by IDA of 40% of the value of
contracts is justified.
G. Disbursements, Accounts and Audit
3.31      Disbursements under the Credit would be completed in nine years in
accordance with the disbursement profile for agricultural extension and
research projects in the South Asia Region, and would finance various
categories of expenditure in the following manner:
(i) 65% of expenditures on civil works (US$5.0 M);



-30-
(ii) 1001 of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods; 1002 of
ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured goods; and 75 of
local expenditures on goods procured locally (US$4.1 M);
(iii) 60% of expenditures on contract research (US$3.4 M);
(iv) 1001 of expenditures on fellowships and training (US$4.8 M); and
(v)  incremental staff and operating costs (US$1.3 M) incurred on
Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA, CARP administration, and
PMU, and on a declining scale of:  901 of expenditures up to
US$1.0 M, 601 above US$1.0 M but up to US$1.6 M, and 401 above
US$1.6 M but up to US$1.7 M.
Disbursements against contract research (item iii) and incremental staff and
operating costs (item v) would be on the basis of certified statements of
expenditures for which the Project Management Unit would retain supporting
documents, which would be made available to IDA representatives on request.
Documents for expenditures covered by statements of expenditure would be
audited annually at the concerned institutions by auditors acceptable to IDA
and the documents would be retained by PMU.  Disbursements against items (i),
(ii), and (iv) would be fully documented. An estimated disbursement schedule
is presented at Annex 3.
3.32      Special Account.  In order to facilitate prefinancing of project
expenditures under different categories (para 3.31), a special account would
be opened by GOSL in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. An initial deposit of
US$500,000 would be made in the special account by IDA upon receipt of a
direct payment application from COSL supported by appropriate evidence that
such an account has been opened. GOSL would furnish to IDA requests for
replenishment of the special account at specific intervals. On the basis of
such requests, IDA would withdraw from the Credit and deposit in the special
account such amounts as required to replenish the special account, but not
exceeding the amount of payments made for eligible expenditures. Each such
deposit would be withdrawn by IDA from the Credit under the respective
categories (para 3.31), and in respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such a deposit.
GOSL would furnish to IDA such evidence showing that payment was made for
eligible expenditures. Recovery of the initial deposit by IDA would commence
when the withdrawn amount in the Credit has been reduced to double the ini-
tial deposit to the account. Recovery would be by reimbursing only 50X of
the amounts claimed during the recovery period, until the advance has been
fully recovered. GOSL would report to IDA any amount outstanding in the
special account and which would not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the
establishment of a special account and operating procedures.



-31-
3.33      Accounts and Audit.  MADR would be the project implementing agency.
All project funds and accounts would be maintained by the Project Management
Unit of MADR. All participating institutions would be subject to normal
government control and auditing procedures which are satisfactory. Agreement
was reached during negotiations on the following:
(i)  MADR would cause all research institutions, the Project
Management Unit, the Headquarters Research Planning Cell of
DOA, and the CARP Secretariat to maintain separate accounts
for all funds received and expenditures incurred under the
project;
(ii) MADR would cause all the above institutions to furnish PMU
with monthly statements of expenditures;
(iii) MADR would cause (a) PMU to maintain separate records and
accounts reflecting all project expenditures, and (b) PMUs
project accounts to be audited annually, in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(iv) MADR would cause documents for expenditures covered by state-
ments of expenditures at all institutions audited by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to IDA, and furnish to IDA not later
than nine months after the end of each financial year (by
September 30 each year), an audit report including a statement
by such auditors that funds disbursed against statements of
expenditures had been used for the purpose which they were
provided.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Coordination
4.01      Project Coordination Committee.  A Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) would be formed in MADR to ensure coordinated implementation
of project activities dispersed among seven ministries. PCC would be chaired
by the Secretary, MADR and would include as members, Secretaries of concerned
ministries (or their representatives), the Executive Secretary of CARP, and
representatives of the National Planning and Budget divisions of MOFP. The
Project Manager (para 4.11) would act as member-Secretary of PCC. This
comittee would meet once every quarter to review project progress and
resolve delays in project implementation. PCC had been formed prior to
negotiationes
4.02      Headquarter Research Planning Cell, DOA.  This Cell would be headed
by the Deputy Director (Research) with responsibility for coordinating,



-32-
planning, and implementing of research programs and other project activities
at RRCs and other research stations of DOA. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Headquarter Research Planning Cell would be established
and fully staffed by June 30, 1987.
B. Research Planning
4.03      Introduction of systematic procedures for planning of research
programs would be the responsibility of CARP and proceed in four steps:
(a) development of overall strategy and priorities in a National Agricultural
Research Plan; (b) preparation of Status Review Reports; (c) introduction of
a task-oriented program and budgeting system; and (d) annual program
planning.
4.04      National Agricultural Research Plan.  Many of the problems facing
agricultural research in Sri Lanka stem from scientists working in isolation,
without reference to a coherent research plan. It is important that an
agricultural research program not only be sensitive to current needs, but
also be forward looking if it is to make most effective use of available
resources including funds, manpower, and facilities. A National Agricultural
Research Plan (NARP) would be prepared based on agricultural development
strategies enunciated in the National Agricultural, Food and Nutrition
Strategy document. The proposed Plan would be prepared in consultation with
policymakgrs, planners, researchers, extension agencies, and farmers. GOSL
has already initiated action to prepare a draft Plan. With the establishment
of CARP, responsibility for preparing the final NARP document would vest in
this institution. The draft NARP document would highlight the major goals of
Sri Lanka's agricultural research. In the context of these goals and the
Status Rev-3w Reports (para 4.05), research institutions would assess the
results of past research to ascertain what knowledge and technology exist,
the extent of adoption of technology by farmers and reasons for non-adoption,
and provide the information to CARP as background material for the final
version of NARP. The CARP Secretariat in consultation with the research
institutions, would then identify gaps in the research program and unresolved
issues that need to be addressed. As a condition of invitation to nego-
tiations, GOSL had presented to IDA the draft NARP document for review and
comment. Agreement was reached during negotiations that GOSL would finalize
the NARP document and send to IDA not later than December 31, 1988 and update
the document from time to time. The final NARP document would be submitted
for approval to the Sri Lanka Cabinet of Ministers.
4.05      Status Review Reports.  DOA has identified the country's broad
agroecological regions (Annex I, Pages 2 and 3), which at best represent
broad agrocl.iatic similarities.  Yet, within them rests a range of
microvariations, i.e., agroecological farming situations, each with distinct
crop production problems and opportunities. Some of these variations have
been identified, but the database is inadequate for research planning and
design specifically suited to those areas. A detailed knowledge of the



-33-
discrete agroecological farming situations in the service area of each
Regional Research Center and farmers' practices and constraints to production
is a prerequisite for efficient planning and for research to be able to
contribute effectively in developing technologies appropriate to farmers.
Under the project, a Status Review Report would be prepared for each of the
seven agroecological regions. 1/ A typical report would incorporate: (a) a
description of agroecological farming situations within the region and with
similar crop production opportunities and problems; (b) an analysis of the
crop production potential and technological constraints to production in each
situation; (c) an assessment of available technology and its suitability for
farmers (as judged by its adoption) in different farming situations; (d) a
statement of strategies and priorities for further research; and
(e) proposals for strengthening research-extension linkages. Preparation of
such a Status Review Report for each agroecological region would best be
accomplished by an interdisciplinary team of scientists, economists, and
extension staff 2/ who would identify the specific farming situations and
interact with farmers. The report would identify research priorities for
specific crops and for i-terdisciplinary/collaborative efforts and updated
from time to time. These reports would be of immense value in preparing the
National Agricultural Research Plan. The Regional Deputy Director, RRC would
have the lead function in this exercise and coordinate with other agencies.
Similar efforts would be made by tea and rubber research institutes in their
respective areas with such studies covering the estates and smallholders.
Detailed guidelines for preparation of status review t_ .orts are &vailable in
Project File, Item 1. Overall responsibility for organizing and providing
guidance in the timely preparation of status review reports would lie with
CARP. Agreement was reached during negotiations that preparation of status
review reports would be completed by March 31, 1988 and updated from time
to time.
4.06      Program-Budgeting System.  The project would provide for introduc-
tion of a task-oriented program-budgeting system to ensure that the design of
research programs is clearly related to national needs. The proposed system
would permit CARP and research institutions to come to grips with the real
cost of each activity, leading them to: (a) make informed choices about
redesign of research proposals to increase cost-effectiveness, and (b) ensure
that resource allocations are adequate to yield results.  The proposed sys.em
would also provide the mechanisms for: (a) assigning priorities to various
research programs/activities; (b) ensuring that funds are available for
identified programs/activities; (c) monitoring expenditures to help control
1/ Except Killinochchi and Karadian Aru.
2/  Extension and research staff of DOA, DMEC, Sugarcane Development, Animal
Production and Health, and Coconut Development; and scientists from
universities.



-34-
overexpenditure or excessive reallocations; and (d) improving the implementa-
tion process through a better system of monitoring and evaluating results and
of incorporating thete reviews in subsequent program design. Because of its
complex organization, DOA is p'arrning to introduce the program-budgeting
system in FY1987. The project would include provision of assistance by an
expatriate consultant (Research Planning, specialist) to establish the system,
initially in DOA, and to help in planning and managing its implementation and
monitoring its performance. Subsequently, based on experience gained, the
system would be introduced to other institutions. Provision would also be
made for staff training in program-budgeting methodology.
4.07      Annual Program Planning and Review.  The agricultural research
allocations for PY1986 amount to Rs 292.68 (US$10.7 M). About 52Z of this,
amounting to Rs 151.30 M (US$5.5 M), would be the share of DOA research
institutions, and about 35% amounting to Rs 102.78 M (US$3.8 M) would be
spent on tree crops research (coconut, tea, and rubber). The balance of
Rs 38.60 (US$1.4 M) would be spent by other research institutions (DMBC,
Forestry, VRI, NARA, and SaI). About 29% of the funds allocated for DOA
research institutions and amounting to Rs 44.60 M (US$1.6 M) would be spent
on research relating to crop diversification. A summary of the budget
allocations for FY1986 and a broad outline of the research activities are
given at Annex 4. Some of the important areas of research which are not
emphasized are briefly summarized below. DOA research does not give much
attention to rainfed agriculture, cropping and farming systems research, soil
and water conservation measures in "chena areas", and an assessment of the
impact of available technology. Most of the research on minor export crops
is crop oriented and no mention is made of multidisciplinary research. Live-
stock research programs do not give an indication on the integration of crop
and livestock research act -ities. Under Tree Crops, there is no mention of
the development of technology for smallholders based on a study of their
problemst and research programs meant to develop recommendations to reduce
replanting and post-replanting costs, reduce field losses, and induce early
vigor. Except under tea, there is lack of emphasis (coconut and rubber) on
soil and water conservation research. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that GOSL would maintain the same level of investment (in real
terms) on agricultural research (on operating expenditure excluding salaries
and allowances) during FY1987 and include high priority research programs as
well as some new initiatives. Thereafter, the focus and quality of research
would be improved through a system of annual planning and review. As the
final NARP document will not be ready before December 1988, the research
program for FY1988 (finalized by July 1987) would also include the findings
of the draft NARP. The research program for FY1989 (finalized by July in the
preceding year) would be based on the draft NARP and also include the find-
ings of the status review reports (ready by March 31, 1988). Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the research programs for PY1988 and PY1989
would be furnished to TIA for comment. The research programs for PY1988 and
1989 would be temporary in nature, since the development of the National



-35-
Agricultural Research Plan (December 31, 1988) might lead to changes in
priorities for future years.
4.08      The proposed annual program planning and review exercise of the
total research effort would follow certain set procedures and CARP would have
an important role in reviewing research proposals and recommending their
funding.  The planning and review process would be done in the following
stages:
(i) Analysis of Previous Seasons' Results and Formulation of Annual
Research Plan (January and February). Each head of a research
institution/RRC would carry out an evaluation and review of the
previous years' research effort and decide on research proposals
for the next year. This evaluation would be based on an analysis
of research results and reports prepared at the research institu-
tions and discussions with the Regional Technical Working Group
(RTWC). Where the system of RTWG does not exist, researchers would
interact with the respective extension agencies and farmers through
the Diagnostic Teams (para 4.18). Review of DOA commodity research
programs would be chaired by concerned National Coordinators.
Similar reviews would be carried out for the interdiscipli-
nary/collaborative research and university research programs funded
under the project. Based on the above, individual research
proposals would be formulated in an appropriate format developed by
CARP, and sent to the next higher level by mid-March of each year.
(ii) Planning Exercise at Department/Statutory Controlling Body Level
(March and A2ril). Based on the above reviews, policymakers/senior
officers/heads of research institutions would evaluate previous
years' programs and the new proposals, in line with economic
priorities identified in NARP, to (a) adjust the program for the
next season, and (b) plan the next fiscal year's program.
(iii) CARP Review of Research Plan and Program-Budget (May and June).
WDA anI other research institutions would prepare and send their
annual Program-Budget proposal to CARP (April 30) (through the
appropriate administrative channels). This proposal would also
explain the objectives of the research programs and how they sup-
port national priorities, and also highlight new directions and
alterations from the current year's program. CARP would review the
proposals (making use of local consultants where necessary) in
consultation with the concerned agencies and either approve, drop,
or modify them to make adjustments to the emphases in the programs
to reflect national priorities. A representative of the Ministry
of Finance and Planning (MOFP) would participate in the CARP review
process. CARP would forward (July 15) the annual research plan
proposals and the requirement of funds under each category of



-36-
research to MOFP, with a memorandum indicating its recommendations
and also ranking of priorities for the fiscal year.
(iv)  Thereafter, CARP would participate in the budget reviews carried
out by the Planning and Budget divisions of MOFP.
The above steps would help in the satisfactory rationalization of the total
research budget, supported by justifications, priorities and task-budgeting.
Furthermore, the participation of MOFP at CARP review would minimize the
chances of cuts and resulting distortion of the research program. The first
CARP review of research proposals would be in 1988 (for FY1989). Agreement
was reached during negotiations that: (a) CARP review of research proposals
would follow the above system and would be completed each year by mid-July,
starting in 1988 for the fiscal year 1989; (b) CARP would send its recommen-
dations directly to MOFP with copies to others concerned; (c) a copy of the
memorandum forwarded by CARP to MOFP recommending research proposals for
inclusionin the budget would be sent to IDA by the end of July each year for
review and comment; (d) MOFP in making budget provision for research would
take into account the views of CARP; and (e) research activities not included
in NARP would not be financed under the project.
4.09      Agricultural Economics Research.  Under the project, seven agricul-
tural economist positions would be established in research institutions where
such positions are not available. Their function would be to collaborate
with scientists and carry out research in the following areas: (a) economic
viability of new agricultural technology; (b) farmers' responses to and
adoption of new technology; (c) identification and measurement of factors
restricting crop yields on farmers' fields; (d) economics of input use;
(e) farm management studies, including risk analysis; (f) assistance to
other scientists in designing experiments and analysis of data; and
(g) paicti..ipation in preparation of Status Review Reports. Such research
would provide feedback for effective research planning and make research more
relevant to farmers' socioeconomic situations.
C. Project Implementation
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
4.10      Overall responsibilitX for project implementation would be with the
Secretary, MADR. A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been
formed (para 4.01), chaired by the Secretary, MADR to coordinate project
implementation.
4.11      Project Management Unit.  The Secretary, MADR would be assisted by
a PMU headed by a Project Manager and supported by Project Coordinators,
Procurement Officer, Civil Engineer, Training Coordinator, Accounts Officer,
and other staff. PMU would be responsible for day-to-day implementation and
operation of the project and perform the following functions:



-37-
(i) handling of project funds and making allocations to concerned
institutions on the basis of the approved plan and budget provi-
sions;
(ii) preparation of a master site plan for each research station showing
location of civil works and other improvements proposed;
(iii) finalizing designs, cost estimates, and bidding documents for civil
works, evaluating bids and awarding contracts, and supervision of
construction;
(iv) procurement of equipment and vehicles;
(v) helping CARP in awarding fellowships and implementation of the
technical assistance program;
(vi) participating in the annual planning exercise at CARP;
(vii) maintaining separate project accounts at PMU and making sure other
institutions also maintain separate accounts;
(viii) reviewing statements of expenditures of different institutions to
ensure authenticity and eligibility, claiming reimbursement from
IDA, and reviewing annual status of accounts; and
(ix) monitoring and evaluating project progress continuously in terms of
key indicators and furnishing reports to IDA on project progress.
As a condition of Credit Effectiveness, GOSL would have: (a) established PMU
and appointed the Project Manager, Project Coordinators, Procurement Officer,
Civil Engineer, Training Coordinator and Accounts Officer; and (b) employed a
firm of architects/engineers.
Council of Agricultural Research Policy
4.12     -Annual Research Plan and Budget Review.  CARP would forward the
Annual Research Plan and Budget Review proposals by July 15 each year to MOFP
with its recommendations and ranking of priorities (para 4.08). In case of
interministerial and interdisciplinary research and University research, CARP
would designate a lead agency in consultation with the participating institu-
tions. As part of the research evaluation and planning exercise, DOA would
prepare an Annual Research Report based on reports prepared by its RRCs;
other institutions would also prepare reports of their research activities.
Based on these reports, CARP would prepare a consolidated Annual Research
Report.



-38-
4.13    Manpower Development (para 3.14).  CARP would coordinate the manpower
development program and approve the fellowships and foreign training grants.
Local training programs would be approved by respective institutions. Agree-
ment wis reached during negotiations that CARP would prepare and furnish to
IDA by December 31, 1987, a preliminary manpower development plan for review
and comment. All fellowship and training opportunities would be advertised,
and awards would be based on written recommendations from research organiza-
tions. In due course of time, CARP would provide the initiative and leader-
ship to establish personnel management policies and procedures with respect
to research staff. These would include improved standards for recruitment
and advanced training opportunities, and criteria and methods for promotion
on the basis of performance and merit.
4.14      Technical Assistance (para 3.16).  Employment of expatriate and
local consultants would be financed by the Federal Republic Of Germany under
contract with its Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and arranged in
consultation with CARP. Draft terms of reference for consultants required
under the project are in the Project File, Item 4. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that consultants would be employed with qualifications
and experience, and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
4.15      Central Agricultural Research Institute.  With good laboratory
facilities and qualified staff, the Central Agricultural Research Institute
(CARI), Connoruwa, is the strongest research station under DOA.. It also his
responsibility as RRC serving the Wet Zone Mid-Country region (Annex 1,
Page 3). It is in a position to provide a wider range of services to DOA's
network of research centers in areas such as biological control, pesticide
residue testing, soil analysis, biometrics, equipment servicing and main-
tenance, and library services. CARI facilities would be further strengthened
under the project and CARP, in consultation with DOA, would assign specific
coordinating and advisory functions to CARI.
Research-Extension Linkages
4.16      Under the ongoing Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project (Cr. 931-CE) implemented by DOA, research-extension linkages have
improved considerably, resulting in enhanced quality of experiments at RRCs
(para 2.40). Improvements have been achieved by: increased interaction
among scientists, extension workers, and farmers; meetings of RTWG; organiza-
tion of monthly research-extension dialogues; and other informal contacts.
These arrangements would continue under the project and would be further
strengthened by way of: (a) preparation of area-specific Status Review
Reports (para 4.05), jointly by scientists and extension workers, to assess
field problems and farmers' constraints to adoption of technology;
(b) economic studies on viability of technology, input use, constraint
analysis, and research program design (para 4.09); and (c) systematic
development of adaptive research work.



-39-
4.17      Adaptive Research.  Funds would be provided under the contract
research program to carry out adaptive research trials on farmers' fields
to meet the following objectives: (a) facilitate local adaptation of
research results that have been obtained at research stations and which
cannot adequately represent the range of situations encountered under
specific conditions in farmers' fields and farmers' resource situations;
(b) help evaluate, refine, and modify as necessary, the technologies
developed at research stations to fit better a particular resource and risk
situation of farmers; (c) obtain farmers' reactions to the feasibility and
profitability of technologies; and (d) make it possible to narrow down the
range of expected economic returns from an innovation, given the local
resource conditions. These adaptive research trials would be planned and
organized by research scientists in close collaboretion with extension staff.
Guidelines for carrying out adaptive research trials are in the Project File,
Item 3.
4.18      Diagnostic Teams.  Although the RTWG meetings and
research-extension monthly dialogues provide opportunities for interaction
among scientists, extension workers, and farmers, within DOA's extension
there is considerable scope for improvement in problem identification and
analysis and development of strategies. In other departments/institutions
the above arrangements do not exist, and the situation is unsatisfactory. It
would be improved under the project by the formation of a Diagnostic Team of
2-3 scientists (including an economist) at each research station (including
RRCs of DOA), with responsibility for periodic visits, accompanied by local
extension staff, to farmers' fields in each cropping season in order to
obtain information on their problems and constraints in the adoption of new
technology and also organize adaptive research trials. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Diagnostic Teams would be formed at all research
institutions by May 31, 1987.
4.19      Review of Extension Requirements.  As part of its extension system,
DOA is providing some advice to farmers growing minor export crops and
coconuts. However, this is not well organized and is inadequate. A sys-
tematic extension system does not exist in other departments/organizations,
resulting in few or no research-extension linkages. In the cases of tea and
rubber, extension support provided by the Tea Smallholdings Authority and
Advisory Services Division, respectively, is weak. GOSL is planning a review
of the present extension system in Sri Lanka with the intention of bringing
about improvements and strengthening linkages with research. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that this review would be completed by June 30,
1988 and IDA's comments invited on the results and action proposed.



-40-
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      Monitoring of the physical execution of the project would be the
responsibility of PMU. PMU staff would carry out periodic monitoring of
physical activities in the field according to a regular action program. Each
research institution would send the following reports to PMU: 1/
(i)  an annual work program indicating proposed targets for staffing,
civil works, equipment, and training by March 15;
(ii)  quarterly physical progress reports on staffing, civil works, equip-
ment, and training; and
(iii)  monthly expenditure reports in a format prescribed by PMU.
The Project Management Unit would furnish to IDA in an agreed format (Project
File, Item 5), a quarterly progress report on the physical implementation of
the project, by the end of April, July, October, and January of each year.
4.21      Evaluation.  As part of the research evaluation and planning exer-
cise (para 4.08), each research institution would prepare an Annual Research
Report 1/ and forward it to CARP by March 15 each year. Based on these
reports and its own review, CARP would produce a consolidated Annual Research
Report. Agreement was reached during negotiations that CARP would forward to
IDA a consolidated Annual Research Report by December 31 of each year.
4.22      Evaluation of the impact of research would be carried out through
the annual research review mechanism (para 4.08) established under the
project: (i) annual review by concerned institutions; (ii) annual review
at the decision-making level of concerned departments; and (iii) CARP review
of annual research proposals and the Annual Research Reports. In addition to
the above, CARP would carry out periodic field reviews of research
activities.
4.23      Two interim reviews of all research activities funded under the
project would be commissioned by CARP: (i) first, in January 1989, soon
after the preparation of the National Agricultural Research Plan, to review
ongoing research programs in the light of the final NARP document and suggest
changes in strategy, priorities, and content to bring about mid-course cor-
rections, and (ii) again in January 1991, to determine whether project objec-
tives are being achieved and to identify future strategies for agricultural
1/ DOA research institutions would send their reports to the Deputy Director
(Research), who would forward them to PMU along with a consolidated
report for the department.



-41-
research. These reviews would be carried out by a joint team from
GOSL/CARP/IDA. Agreement on the above was reached during negotiations.
4.24      Project Completion Report.  On completion of the project, but not
later than six months of the Credit Closing Date, MADR would prepare and
furnish to IDA a project completion report.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01      As in most other Bank Group-assisted agricultural research
projects, no attempt has been made to qutantify the economic rate of return
ex ante, due to:
(i) inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of research
findings, and the timing and extent of adoption of research find-
ings by farmers;
(ii)  difficulties in separating potential benefits of research and
complementary investments, such as input supply, extension and
training; and
(iii)  the problem of assessing the value of negative research results,
which add to the pool of knowledge and frequently benefit sub-
sequent research efforts.
There is considerable evidence that investment in agricultural research has
potentially high rates of return. 1/ In Latin America during the late 1960s,
the economic rates of return for research on maize, sugarcane, wheat and
cotton are reported to have ranged between 35% and 90%. A study of the green
revolution in India, gave research a 72% rate of return.
5.02      It is possible to describe the potential benefits in qualitative
terms, especially as key indicators of progress towards institutional objec-
tives that would yield relevant, cost-effective, and adaptable research. In
the context of this project, progress should be assessed towards developing:
(a) an efficient mechanism for coordinating and planning research effort
dispersed among seven ministries; (b) a research system with closer links
with extension and farmers; and (c) a research program that will support the
1/ Agricultural Research (IBRD Sector Policy Paper, June 1981), Annex 3,
pages 64-65.



-42-
agricultural development goals of the country and the priority needs of small
farmers.
5.03    Benefits within two to three years would result from a critical
evaluation and adaptations of past research. The Status Review Reports would
assess the usefulness of available research results in relation to farmers'
present problems, and form the basis for the re-orientation of the extension
messages toward specific agroecological regions. The adaptive research
program would provide additional qualitative information on the research
recommendations and help refine them.
5.04      Overall, the project would focus research on on-farm problems and
link extension and research into an integrated system, through continuing
meetings of research scientists and extension staff, priority setting at
field level, and development of technological adaptions suitable to local
conditions. Major gaps and potential priorities for future research would
be identified as a result of the draft NARP, Status Review Reports, the
annual research planning exercise, and the adaptive research diagnostic work.
These would lay a basis for preparing the final NARP, which would set
priorities in light of national development goals, known local problems and
constraints, and inputs that can be mobilized. GOSL's efficiency in using
research resources would also be improved by developing a program-budgeting
system that would facilitate the use of financial resources and monitoring
of expenditures in terms of objectives and tasks. The manpower development
program would develop the essential human capital of the agricultural
research system, and the improved physical and library facilities would tend
to attract and retain trained scientists.
5.05      The direct benefits of the project would be substantial.  Under
crop research, the emphasis on crop diversification would result in develop-
ing recommendations for increasing production of maize, finger millet, and
sorghum; grain legumes (cowpea, green gram, and chickpea); and oilseeds
(groundnut, sunflower and castor). Research efforts would also yield
appropriate benefits in rainfed farming through development of
drought-tolerant varieties, improved agronomic practices and farming systems,
and development of contingency plans. Improved crop husbandry systems would
be developed that would ease major constraints faced by the small farmer,
such as labor shortages at peak periods. Sugarcane research would end the
dependence on a single variety by developing improved varieties to suit major
cane growing areas. Livestock research would be expected to produce improve-
ments in the quality of draft animals, animal husbandry techniques geared to
local conditions, and integration of livestock with the cropping systems.
Fisheries research would produce recommendations for increased production in
freshwater inland fisheries and brackish water fisheries. Shrimp production
techniques in freshwater and brackish water would be improved. Improvement
in riverine capture technology could also be expected. Forestry research
would be expected to compile and evaluate existing research results, develop
techniques for establishing plantations with fast-growing tree species



-43-
suitable for Sri Lanka conditions, and would also refine criteria for effi-
cient forest planning and management. Tea and rubber research would be able
to develop recommendations most appropriate for increasing smallholder
yields. Techniques of intercropping would be further developed. Better
quality planting material would be available to smallholders. Under coconut
research, improvements would be brought about in breeding, and developing
fertilizer recommendations to suit farmers' economic conditions. Recommenda-
tions would be developed for coconut intercropping based on specific rainfall
regimes, soil types, and shade requirements for different crops. Minor
export crops research would bring about improvements in developing technical
recommendations based on agroecological variations, and in vegetative
propagation methods of cocoa, varietal selection and management practices in
cinnamon, and disease control in pepper. Improvements can be expected in
intercropping with tea, rubber and coconuts and developing a marketing infor-
mation system. Other benefits would include: (a) improved agronomic and
farming systems research to enable smallholders to maximize returns on labor
and land resources and increase their incomes; and (b) conservation and
utilization of national resources contributing to sustained agricultural
development and improvement of the ecological system.
5.06      Employment and Poverty Impact.  The project would have only a
comparatively small direct employment impact, both during construction and
during operation. Far more important will be its indirect impact on employ-
ment and income generation throughout rural Sri Lanka: through the dissemina-
tion and adoption of improved farm production and management techniques, the
project will lead to increases in on-farm productivity and farm output,
thereby generating additional employment and income for farmers, their
household members, and agricultural laborers. About 74% of the population of
the country lives in rural areas, and 46% (2.2 million persons) of the total
labor force is in agriculture. Smallholders operate 72.6% of total agricul-
tural land: with an average household size of nearly 6 persons, this implies
an average annual income in the smallholder sector of about US$110 per per-
son--one third of the national average of US$330 and, hence, equivalent to
the relative poverty level. Given these land and income distribution pat-
terns, the project's indirect employment and income generation effects wUuld
initially accrue predominantly to the rural poor; with rising agricultural
productivity and, hence, declining real prices of agricultural commodities,
the secondary impact will be to reduce the real cost of foodstuffs, thus
disproportionately benefitting the lower income groups who spend the bulk of
their income on food purchases.
B. Project Risks
5.07      Irrelevance and/or Non-Adoption of Research Findings.  The most
serious risks in any agricultural research project are: that research find-
ings generated may be irrelevant to farmers' needs or inapplicable under
on-farm conditions; that research findings may not, or only inadequately and



-44-
with undue delay, be transmitted to farmers and, therefore, fail to generate
the potential benefits as early and fully as possible; and that changes in
economic policy may prevent the adoption of technological advances, i.e.,
render them economically unviable.
5.08      The potential risk of inappropriate research orientation and tech-
nology generation is directly amenable to corrective measures under the
project. Relevant aspects in this context include: regional decentraliza-
tion; orientation of research towards clearly identified farmers' needs,
resources and skills, diagnosed by multi-disciplinary teams prior to the
formulation of research programs; emphasis on field-testing and adaption; and
increased cooperation and communication with extension staff and farmers for
intensified feedback on research results.
5.09      The second potential cause of non-adoption and/or lagging adoption
is already being effectively dealt with through the Bank's strong support
for improved agricultural extension services and GOSL's review of the need
to provide wider coverage of crops. The reformed extension services, operat-
ing on the basis of the training and visit system, have proven effective in
reaching farmers and in spreading improved cultivation practices and
technologies.
5.10      The risk of new technologies being rendered unsuitable for farmer
adoption by changes in economic policies must be addressed through improved
research management, mainly at the planning stage when economic policy objec-
tives and parameters need to be taken into account in the formulation of
research goals and priorities. The proposed project seeks to bring about
improved research management at all levels, including greater involvement of
economists in research planning and evaluation of impact.
5.11      Risks in Implementation.  There would be implementation risks
attributable to the proposed organizational changes, especially the estab-
lishment of CARP and giving it an important role in formulating research
policy and recommending research funding. The major risk is that the vested
interests of different research institutes may come in the way of efficient
project implemenitation. This risk would be largely overcome by the fact that
the proposed role of CARP has been initiated and strongly supported by the
Government, research community, and administrators. Further improvements
would depend on CARP's leadership and credibility over time. Funding of
agricultural research is expected to improve in light of commitments of GOSL
to support research as articulated in the NAFNS document. The risk of major
delays/slippages in physical implementation of the project would be reduced
through the introduction of a system of frequent monitoring and the nine year
implementation period. The increased implementation period reflects a
greater realism concerning the feasible pace of project execution.



-45-
5.12      A review of 128 Bank projects supporting agricultural research and
extension in 10 countries 1/ concluded that the more successful research
organizations in the countries studied displayed a combination of some of the
following characteristics: a central organization with some degree of
autonomy and overall responsibility for most aspects of national research and
funding control to back it up; capacity to perform important planning,
monitoring and evaluation functions; planned decentralization of regional
research; and active participation in translating research results into
recommendations communicable to users. Each of these elements have been
introduced and/or strengthened under the project. The same multi-country
review recowmended that Bank-supported agricultural projects emphasize:
manpower training; research aimed at integration of crop and livestock
activities; and consideration of socioeconomic factors in the design of
research programs and their evaluation. The proposed project would emphasize
all of these elements.
5.13      Environmental Effects.  Research programs under the project would
be designed to develop technologies that safeguard the delicate balance of
agroecosystems and, at the same time, minimize health hazards. Sound
integrated pest management practices (including biological control measures)
would be developed for major pests and diseases. Farming systems research
programs would investigate methods of soil management that would ensure soil
productivity and conservation, including the application of minimum tillage
to production systems. Agroforestry development, especially in the Dry Zone,
would maximize use of integrated farming systems and aim at increasing soil
and water conservation as well as food, fodder, and fuelwood production.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      As a condition of invitation to negotiations, GOSL had presented to
IDA the draft National Agricultural Research Plan document for review and
comment (para 4.04).
6.02      The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) GOSL would by December 31, 1987, make available land in Colombo
for the construction of an administrative building for CARP
(para 3.11);
1/ Operations Evaluation Department, Strengthening of Agricultural Research
and Extension. The World Bank Experience (IBRD Report No. 4684;
September 1, 1984).



-46-
(b) GOSL would: (i) make adequate budget provision with MADR each year
for implementation of the project, and (ii) upon completion of the
project, retain incremental research and support staff and maintain
the same level of expenditure for research activities (para 3.25);
(c) In order to facilitate prefinancing of project expenditures, a
special account would be opened by GOSL in the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka (para 3.32);
(d) WADR would cause all institutions receiving funds under the project
to: (i) maintain separate accounts for all funds received and
expenditures incurred under the project, and (ii) send to PMU
monthly statements of expenditures (para 3.33);
te) MADE would cause (i) PMU to maintain separate records and accounts
reflecting all project expenditures; and (ii) PMU's project
accounts to be audited annually, in accordance with sound account-
ing principles consistently applied by independent auditors accept-
able to IDA (pare 3.33);
(f)  MADR would furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but not later than
nine months after the end of each financial year (by September 30
each year), an audit report including a statement by such auditors
that funds disbursed against statements of expenditures had been
used for the purposes for which they were provided (para 3.33);
(g) The Headquarter Research Planning Cell of DOA would be established
and fully staffed by June 30, 1987 (para 4.02);
(h) The final NARP document would be sent to IDA not later than
December 31, 1988 and updated from time to time (para 4.04);
i)  Preparation of status review reports would be completed by
March 31, 1988 (para 4.05);
(j) GOSL would maintain the same level of investment (in real terms)
on agricultural research (on operating expenditure excluding staff
salaries and allowances) during PY1987 and include high priority
research programs as well as some new initiatives (para 4.07);
(k) The research programs for FY1988 and FY1989 would be furnished to
IDA for comment (para 4.07);
(1) That (i) the annual CARP review of research programs and budget
would be completed by mid-July each year beginning in 1988 for the
fiscal year 1989; (ii) CARP would send its recommendations directly
to NOP? with copies to others concerned; (iii) a copy of the
memorandum forwarded by CARP to MOPP recommending research



-47-
proposals for inclusion in the budget would be sent to IDA by the
end of July each year for review and comment, (iv) MOFP in making
budget provision for research would take into account the view_. of
CARP; and (v) research activities not included in NARP would not be
financed under the project (para 4.08);
(m) CARP would prepare and furnish to IDA a preliminary manpower
development plan by December 31, 1987 for review and comment
(para 4.13)$
(n) Consultants would be employed with qualifications and experience,
and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 4.14);
(o) Diagnostic teams would be formed at all research institutions by
May 31, 1987 (para 4.18);
(p) GOSL would complete the review of extension requirements for
Sri Lanka by June 30, 1988 and IDA's comments invited on the
results and action proposed (para 4.19);
(q) CARP would forward to IDA a consolidated Annual Research Report by
December 31, each year (para 4.21);
(r) Two interim reviews of the project would be commissioned by CARP
and undertaken by a joint team from GOSL/CARP/IDA in January 1989
and in January 1991 (para 4.23); and
6.03      As a condition of Board Presentation an Act for establishing CARP
has been approved by the Sri Lanka Cabinet of Ministers (para 3.07).
6.04      Conditions for Credit Effectiveness would be as follows:
(a) The Act for establishing CARP would have been approved by the
Sri Lanka Parliament and COSL would have appointed the members
of CARP, the Executive Secretary, two senior scientists, and
support staff (para 3.07);
(b) That the cofinancing agreement with FRG for technical assis-
tance is executed (para 3.25); and
(c) GOSL would have: (i) established PMU and appointed the
Project Manager, Project Coordinators, Civil Engineer,
Training Coordinator and Accounts Officer; and (ii) employed a
firm of architects/engineers (para 4.11).
6.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$18.6 million on standard IDA terms
to the Government of Sri Lanka.



-48-          ~~ANNEX 1
-48~               Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Organizations Concerned with Agricultural Research
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research (MADR)
Department of Agriculture (DOA)
Department of Minor Export Crops (DMEC)
Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI)
Sugarcane Research Institute (SRI)
Ministry of Lands and Land Development (MLLD)
Forest Department (FD)
Irrigation Department (ID)
Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI)
Tea Research Institute (TRI)
Rubber Research Institute (RRI)
Ministry of Coconut Industries (MCI)
Coconut Research Institute (CRI)
Ministry of Fisheries (MF)
National Aquatic Resources Agency (NARA)
Ministry of Rural Industrial Development (MRID)
Veterinary Research Institute (VRI)
Ministry of Higher Education (MHE)
Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya
Faculty of Agriculture, University College of Ruhuna
Faculty of Agriculture, University College of Batticaloa
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science, University
of Peradeniya
Post Graduate Institute of Agriculture (PGIA)
Office of the President
Natural Resources, Energy and Science Authority (NARESA)



-49-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Agroecological Regions and DOA Research Institutions
Satellite                         Agroecological
Research      Adaptive Research    Regions and
Regional Research Centers   Stations            Units             Districts
Kilinochchi                 Tinnavely      Kilinochchi         Dry Zone Far North
Paranthan      Vavuniya            Jaffna, Kilinochchi
Murunkan       Mullaitivu          Mullaitivu, Vavuniya
Mannar             and Mannar Districts
Maha Illuppallama           -              Anuradhapura        Dry Zone Low-Country North
Polonnaruwa        Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa and parts
of Natale, Kurunegala
and Trincomalee
Districts
Karadian Aru                               Batticaloa          Dry Zone Low-Country East
Nalwatta           Batticaloap Ampara and
Kantalai           parts of Trincomalee
District
Angunukolapelessa           Ambalantota    Telijjawila         Dry Zone South
Ambalantota        Hambantota, Matara and
parts of Ratnapura and
Moneragala Districts
Bandarawela                 Sita Eliya     Sita Eliya          Intermediate Zone Up-Country
Rahangala      Rahangala           Nuwara Eliya, Badulla and
Bibile         Nuwara Eliya        part of Moneragala District
Moneragala     Moneragala
Makandura                   Vanathavillu   Walpita             Intermediate Zone Low-Country
Kalpitiya      Wariyapola          Puttalam, Kurunegala and
Tabbowa            part of Gampaha District



-50-
Page 3
Anroecolgalcal Zealous Amd DA Resemarh Institution
Experimental   Adaptive Researeb    Regions and
Rtetional Research Centers  gD        _     _    1units           Districts
Bobubela                    oentota        Kalutara            V2t ZoAn k2CoMtxX
Labuduva       Romagams            Colombo, Kalutara, Gallo
Labuduwa           ad parts of Gmpaba and
Ratnapra Districts
Gounoruwa                   Pussellava     Wagolla             Vet ;Zon  MsidComntry
(Central Agricultural                      Kundasale           Kandy, Tegalle and part
Research Institute)                        Natale              of Natale District
Girandurukotte             Aralagauvila   -                    Vaheli 1Sstem C
Parts of Polonnaruva,
Iatticaloa and apara
Districts
Central Rice Breeding
Station
Batalagoda                  -              -                   All-Island



-51.-
_                   ~~~~~~Page 4
RILANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROEC
List of Institutions Ineludd forS&thnn
A. Ministry of A&ricultural Develomntt aud Research
1. Department of Agriculture
(i) Readquarter Research Planning Cell
(ii) Land and Water Use Division
(iii) Seven Regional Research Centers 1,
(iv) Rice Research Station, Batalagoda
2. Department of Minor Export Crops Research
3. Sugarcane Research Institute
5. Ministry of Lgnds and Land DevelogNet
1. Forestry Research
C. Minaitr of Rgjural Iustrial Developgjm
1. Veterinary Research Institute
D.  Uinistry gf Plantation Industries
1. Rubber Research Institute
2. Tea Research Institute
E. Ministrl of Coconut InduUtries
1. Coconut Research Institute
F. Ministry of Fishries
1.  ational Aquatic Resources Agency
G. Mintitr of- Higer Eduation
1. Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peradeuiya
H. Proglect _M_                     _e ad Codintion
1. The Council of Agricultural Research Policy
2. The Project Management Unit
11 Eceept Killinochchi and Karadian Axu.



-52-
Table I
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUOMARY OF PROJECT COST
Rs. M1illions                 US  M1illions
Sof
Local Foreign   Total         Local Foreign   Total    S Fx  Base Cost
I. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
Civil Works                              85.57   46.07  131.64          3.12    1.68    4.80       35.0%   25.2X
Vehicles & Farm Equipment                 1.84   16.53   18.37          0.07    0.60    0.67       90.0%    3.5%
Laboratory & Office Furniture             1.63    1.08    2.71          0.06    0.04    0.10       39.9%    0.5%
Laboratory & Office Equipment             3.28   29.50   32.78          0.12    1.08    1.20       90.0%    6.3%
Library Oevelopment                       0.69    6.26    6.95          0.02    0.23    0.25       90.1%    1.3%
Laboratory Accessor. & Spares             3.10   12.40   15.50          0.12    0.45    0.57       80.0%    3.0%
Architects & Engineers Fees               8.29    2.07   10.36          0.30    0.08    0.38       20.0%    2.0%
Subtotal Base Cost                    104.40  113.91  218.31          3.81    4.16    7.97      52.2%   41.7%
I1. TRAINING & FELLOWSHIPS
Long Term Degree Training                 1.30   89.00   90.30          0.05    3.25    3.30       98.6%   17.3%
Foreign                                0.00   89.00   89.00           0.00    3.25    3.25    100.0%   17.0%
Local                                   1.30    0.00    1.30          0.05    0.00    0.05      0.0%      0.2%
Short Term Non-Degree Training            1.65   10.40   12.05          0.06    0.38    0.44       86.3%    2.3%
Foreign                                 1.15   10.40   11.55          0.04    0.38    0.42      90.0%    2.2%
Local                                   0.50    0.00    0.50          0.02    0.00    0.02      0.0%      0.1%
Seminars, Workshops, Study Tours          2.14    0.11    2.25          0.08    0.00    0.08      4.9%      0.4%
Subtotal Base Cost                      5.09   99.51  104.60          0.19    3.63    3.82      95.1%   20.0%
111. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Long Term Tech. Assistance                0.34    6.46    6.80          0.01    0.24    0.25      95.0%    1.3%
Short Term Tech. Assistance               0.60   11.49   12.09          0.02    0.42    0.44      95.0%    2.3%
Subtotal Base Cost                     0.94   17.95   18.89           0.03    0.66    0.69      95.0%    3.6%
IV.  CONTRACT RESEARCH                          84.34   36.15  120.49          3.08    1.32    4.40       30.0%   23.0%
V.   INCREMENTAL OPERATIONAL COSTS
Staff Salaries                          41.11    0.00   41.11           1.50    0.00    1.50      0.0%      7.9%
Other Operational Costs                  13.82    5.92   19.74          0.50    0.22    0.72      30.0%    3.8%
Subtotal Base Cost                    54.93    5.92   60.85           2.00    0.22    2.22      9.7%    11.6%
VI.  TOTAL PROJECT BASE COST                   249.70  273.44  523.14          9.11    9.99   19.10       52.3%   100.0%
October 1. 1986
VII. CONTINGENCIES
Physical Contingencies                     11.38   14.78   26.16          0.41    0.54    0.9S       56.5%    5.0%
Price Contingencies                        98.94   78.97  177.91          3.61    2.88    6.49      44.48   34.0%
Subtotal                              110.32   93.75  204.07           4.03    3.42    7.45      45.9%   39.0%
VIII. TOTAL PROJECT COST                       360.02  367.19  727.21         13.14   13.41   26.55       50.5%   139.0%



521 LOO                                                                                                  AIDINK 2
ANICULruot RESEARCH PnitcT                                                                                        Tablo 2
FRAM TARLE OF FAWEC7 COST
(Ntllfom at ftpm)
py-I                PY-2                 PY-3                 P14                  PI-6                 PY-6                 PY-7                py-8                 ".9              TVAL 011111HECT
1. CAPITAL MMYWM                     LONI Foftip  TOUI LOUI F"ige tout Lool fmip Totat Lacel FOWV  y.Ul Locol Orw*igp lotol LoW  Flp Total tocol feftign ToUl Locol fomigo YMI locel foftir Toftl  Loul  FOWV    T*U1
cloi WIPM                        2-67   1.30   3-OS  LSS   4.61 13.16  12.06   6.09 19.75 17.11  9.22  24.33  17.11  9.22 26.33 16.40  0.30  23.70  $311  4.62 13.16   1.73  0.92   2.63  Ln   0.92   2.63   SSJ?   46.07   132-60
Whicl" A ram wp=kt               6.0S   0.60   0.56  0.29   2.49   2.76  0.31   3.31  3.0   LV   3.30   3.67  0.46  4.13  4.0   0.22   I.9111  2.20  0.09  0.83  0.92   0.00  0.00  0.00  LOD  0.00  0.00    I.84   16.63   10.3?
toosto-, a office Fvmtvft        0.00   0.06  0.14   0.25  0.16   0.42  0.41  0.25  0.61  0.42  0.27   0.68   0.32  0.22  0.54   0.16  0.11  0.27  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00    1.63    1.08    tn
Laboratt"7 6 O"im Wpmt    0.10   0.86  0.90   0.33   ZJS   3.20   0.49  4.42   4.91  LS2  7.3e   4.20   0.02   7.U   Lto  0.39  3.64  3."   0.16  1.40  1.64  0.10   Last  O."   0.07  0.0   0.66    3.20   29.110   U.741
Ltbnry OMIOM*nt                  0.06  0.61  0.57  0.17   ilss   2.72  0.16   Lu    1.74  0.16  1.33    2.4   0.06  0.61  OX    0.06  0.61  0.57  0.03  0.17,  0.30  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  LOD  0.00    0-69    6.26    L9S
Lobwotwy Acco"or. a Spom         0.09  0.30  0.47  0.31   1.24   1.65  0.61  2.47  3.00  0.62  2.40    330   0.70  3.20   3.0   0.47   1.86  2.33   0.16  O.Q   0. YS   0.05  O.?S   0.31  0.00  0.00  0.00    3.10   12.40   15.50
Ants taW 4 bOMM  Fftt            1.24   Ln   1.66   1.0   0.37   I.SS  2.60  0.30  L"    O."    0.26    1.24   O."   0.26   2.04  0.99  0.26   1.94   0.66  0.17  LS3  0.33  0.00  0.41  0.00   0.00  "                       4.29    2.07   =36
sittmi km cut                  4.19   4.02  4.21 11.31B 13.36 24J4  16.90 19.32 36.112 20.47 24.23  44.70 2D.64 24.81 46.36 17.0  16.55 34J4   9.65  7.90 17.63  2.20  2.13  4.33  1.78   1.51  S."   106.0   113.91  2IL32
ftlical Caftilawscles              0.90  0.64   1.04  1.28   1.71   3.05   1.66  2.U   4.30   2.n   3.17   6.111  2.22   3.26   S.46   1.0*   2.07  3.96   1.03  0.97  2.00  0.24  0.27  0.61  4.18  0.19  0.36   11.30   14.73    WIS.
PHCO CwAiopml"                     O."    0.17  O."   2.13   1.0    2.82   S.00  4.30   9.30  I.S1  ?.$S   16.16  10.40 10.36 20.76 10.6   6.1? 16.62  6.53   4.53 11.06  1.711  1.41  3.20  1.42   1.07  1.0    46.32   39.16   06.07
TOTAL CAPIUL NKSTWM                4.u    m3   ox   14.79 16.82 31.61 23.34 26.17 *.Si 3O."  ILES   66.24 33.16 36.43 71.691 30.02 26.n  56.61 17.21 13.48 30.0   4.23  3.02  0.04  3.36  2.711  6.16  AL 10  160.24   330.34
st. T&UNIM & FUIOMPS
to" Tom O"m  Tniniso             0.00  4.119  4.90  CAS  LOI  9.16  LAS 20.0S 20.38   0.40 26.97   V."   0.00 20.01 2LO1  0-00  0-00  LOD  0-00  0-00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    1.30   0.00   $0.30
FOWV                           0.01)  4.90  4.911  0.00  8.01  LM   0.00 20.03 20.03  0.00 26.97   W97  0-00 29.01 29.01  0-00  0-00  0.00  0-00  0-00  0.00  Q.QO  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.0                             0.00   MLQO   W.O)
ton?                           0-00  0.00   LOD  0.16   LOD  0.16  0.36  0.00  0.36  0.80   0.00   0-0   LOO  0.00  0.00  0-00  0-00  0.00  0-00  0-M   0.00   0.00  0.00  LOO  LOO  LQD  0.40    1.30    DM                                  1.30
2wft !Or* wwawoo Tvaiviot   LOD  0.00  Loc   Lit   4.0   0.00  Mn   2.02  I.36   O.M.  2.83    2.34   0.32  2.03  2.34  0.31  2.03  2.34  OX    La   1.1111  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  La                                I.$$   M40    "
Feviv                          LOD  0.00   0.00  0.07  L$O  WS   0.24   2.02   2.26  0.29  2.03    2.25   0.22  Z.03  Z. r,  0.22  2.03  2.25  LIS  1.61   LY9  0.00  0.00  LOD  0.00  LO*  OM                              1.2S   10.40   11.0
tsui                           0.00  0.00  0.00  LOS  0.00  0.05  0.09  0.00  0.00  0.0   0.00    0.0   0.00  0.00  0.0   0.09   0.00  0.00  0.09  0.00  0.09  0.00  LOD  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.0                             0.90    Lt.       LS
SoMmem. ftrtskm. UwAy Uws 0.14   0.01  0.16   0.43   0.02  L46  0.67  0.03  0.00  LOS  0.01   0.68   L14   0.01  LIS   0.14   kol  0.15  LO?  0.00  0.07  0.00  0.00  0.0   LOD  0.0    LO                                    2.14     Lll    2.0
I fasm, Out             0.14  4."    6.13  0.70   L71  L41  1.25 MOP 23.33   1.76 29.01   30.79   0.46 31.06 11.50  0.46  2.04  2. 49  0.314  1.61  1.95  0.00  0.00  LOD  LN   LtV   *AS    5.00   9931  MAO
ftice conlopsoclsta                LK   0.17  LIS   Lll   0.96   1.00  0.31   4.26  4.67  0.62  L34    L96  0.90 11.36 11.56   0.23  Lft   1.11  Oie  0.00  mo  Loo  coo  Lao  0.00  0.00  DA.    Im                                    ILK      IL34
"TAL TOMM  I "UOMSKPS              0-16   6.16   L31  0.61  LW   10.41  1.56 26.34 27.90   2.30 37.27   30.65  0.66 42.41 4LO6  Oft   2.92  3.60  0.54   2.61  2.95  0.0   LOD  LOD  0.00  koe  0.00    G."   Ix.17  1M.94   t
Ck Aat$TMM
LMI Taste Tah. Assistant         0.10   1.04  1.94   0.19   3.0    Ms  0.06  O."   C."   0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  LOO  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  LOD  LOD  LOD  O.m   0.00  0.0                             0.34    G."       6.81)
owt Two led. Assistant           0-40   7.611  L06  0.11  f.14   2.26   0.07   1.29   1.26  0.01  0.20    0.92  0.01  0.20  OJ1  0.00  0.10  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  LOD  LOD  LOD    0.60   12.0    12.09
sobtoul kle Cast               0.60   9.60 10.00  0.30  MS  6. is   0. it   2.22   2.24   0.01  0.20    0.21  0.01  0.20  Lz   0.00  0.10  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.0                        0.94   IMS    ILO
Pmce Ccwtiopwin                    LQ*   0.33  0.36  0.05   0.64  0.0    0.03  0.41  O."   0.00  0.06    0.06  0.00  0. 07  0.07  0.00  0.04  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  LM   0.00    0.11    I.SS    LIWI
MAL TECHNICAL USISTAKE             0-63  9-43 10.36   0.35  6.47  6.82  LIS   2.53   2.0    0.02  0.26    0.27  0.01  0.27  0.26   0.00  0.24   0.24  0.00  0.00  0.00  LOD  0.01)  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    IAS   19.50   2D.55
IV. COMMANCT OWAI"                     8-43   3.42  22.06 ILV    7.23 24.10  16.09   7.21 24.10  21.08  9.04   30.12   L43  1.62 12.05   L43   3.62 19.06  4.21   1.81  6.W   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  &OD  0.00   04.31   36.115  MAO
PHCS Cottawmils                    0.42  0.13  4.115  2.116  0.79  3.34  4.24   I.M   6.63   7.40   2.S7    tll  3.0   1.32  6.01  4.28   I.S7  LOS  M2  0.90  3.32   0.00  kOO  0.00  LOD  0.00  0.00   26-00    8-67   DAY
MAL CINTUO KSUM                    2.06   3-n  m4o  ig-42   e-ag 27-44 mis  Lao 29. n  w4e tmi   4o.og 12.z2   4.94  mos mn   Sag  moo   6.s3  2.n   q.:s4  LOD  Loss  Lao  Loc  Los  Lov  me.3s   44-a   iso-a
V. tKNOWAL WMTIM COS1$
Staff setwia                     2.24   0.00   1.24   3.42  0.00  3.42  4.68  0.00  4.48   SJO  0.00    S.30  S.211, 0.00  6.99  6.30  0.00  5.30  6.20  0.00  6.99   S.30  0.00  LSD  S."   0.00  S.20   41.11    0.00   41.11
omtioml Cosu               O."   0.33   1.10   1.00  0.4   1.116  1.09   6.46   1.55   0.56   0.24    LIP   1.06  0.45   1.61  2.56  0.67  2.23  2.57   1.20   3.67  Z-67   1.16   3.67  9.67   1-30   LG?   33AZ    LM    19.74
, I "so Cnt                t.01  0.33  t.34  41.50  0.47  4.97  S. 'n   0.46  6.23  $.SS  0.14    6.09  L3S  0.45  6.00   6.06  "I  7.53  7.06  1.10  8.06  7.07   1.10  S.97   7.4111  1.10   8.96   S4.93    6.91   40.0
WC. C*"$ O'                        0-10  0.01  0.11  0.0   0.06  0.73   1.46  0.09   1.54  2.06  0.07    2.12   2.70   0.16   2.94  1.49  0.99  3.77  4.53  9.65  S.011  LOO  LU   6.72   LO?  0.70   LS?   25.03    2.64   INIAV
MAL I I IN I . OWT. mn             2.11  0.34  2.0   6.10   0.62   S."   7.22  0.56   7.77   7.90   0.31    Ltl  9.13  LU   L74  M34  0.96 11.30 12.39   1.65 14.04 12-M   IM   14.69 13.S3   1-90 IS-33   90-M                           0.46   0.22
Wt. VtAL PODAV  09 cut                ISM   IMS 37.73 33.75  3LGO 69.36 40.53 SI.39 91.n  40.27 62.74  111.91 3S.70 60.13 06.92 33.411 22.98 96.41 22.06 12.50 34.96 10.07  3.23 13.30  9.64  Lil IMS  M.?O  M."   Sn.24
October 1. im
Vs I. CNTINKMES
" to? Comi-pacismt                 0-50   LS4   1.06  1.28   I.77   3.05   2.04   2.54   4.20  9.23  3.17    %.*   2.22   3.26   6.40   1.00  9.07  3.95   1-03  0.97  I.00  0.24  0.27  0.61  0.10  0.10  0.36   11.30   24.7*    0.16
Pelce OwAispinus                   LSS  MI   1.0   6.9   4.12  9.64 11.03  10.46 21.48 10.30 18.79   MIT 27.07 n.27 40.34 IL44 20.95 29.39  MU   6.78  20.46  &W   2.03  0.91  7.09  L"    &86   11111.94   78. P    In.%
Subufti                         ms   i.ss  we  Leo  sm   II.*   me? moo is.ei 2o."   n.96   42m   is.29 aim   ax   20.32 13m   33.34 mn   i.75 22.46   7.12  2.30  9.42   ?.V   1-95  Mt  120.32   "JS   206.07
vtll. TM    powuT OmiT                 14.62 23.41 40.43 40.65 41.49 82.04 S3.40 64.10 217.59 st.76 04.70  154.46 $5.07 06.0  14I."  $3.n  wito w.75 xx   2o.2s mw   m29  sm   z2.n  16.91  4.56 h.47  XD.02  367.19   M.21
$110% varlsome my omw to tmls do to rowdir's.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CIVIL VORKS
LOCATION:                 C.A.R.I.            8ATALAGODA           BOMBWUELA              "I                MAKANDURA          TOTAL TABLE 41
Total   Cost        Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Total   Cost
Area NM Rs.('000)    Area At Rs.('000)   Area Nt Rs.('000)    Area Mt Rs.('000)    Area Nt Rs.('ODO)    Area NO Rs.('000)
A. CIVIL WORKS - NU  CONSTRUCTION
1. LABORATORY AND OFFICE BUILDINGS
Offices. Library, Etc.                       100.0  428.30                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        100.0  428.30
Laboratories                                          0.00                 0.00        200.0  917.60                 0.00                 0.00        200.0  917.60
SUBTOTAL                                   100.0  428.30         0.0    0.00        200.0  917.60          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00        300.0 1345.90
2. STORAGE AINO WORKSHOP FACILITIES
Cold ROOM  Seed Storage                               0.00         20.0  107.06         1S.0   80.30                 0.00                 0.00        35.0  187.36
Coaicals ad Fertilizer Storage                70.0  235.55                 0.00         35.0  117.78                 0.00                 0.00        105.0  353-33
Iorkbes. Gar"e. Ett.                         100.0  336.50                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        100.0  336.50
Other Storaep. Sh". Etc.                              0.00        100.0  168.30                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        100.0  168.30
SUBTOTAL                                   170.0  572.06       120.0  275.36         50.0  198.08          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00        340.0  095.49
3. GLASSJSCMWIOUS
slasahee with Heatinecooling                          0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00         0.0    0.00
Scruwses. Insectaries                        160.0  489.44                 0.00        160.0  489.44                 0.00         60.0  244.72       400.0 It..40
SBTOTJAL                                   160.0  489.44         0.0    0.00        160.0  489.44          0.0    0.00         60.0  244.72        400.0 1m.30
4. UTIL1TIES (1)                                       600.00               560.00               100.00               100.00               410.00              2600.00
5. HOUIS STAFF FACILITIES       Unit Are
"MI@SING                   to Iq.1t.  no.                  no.                  No.                 ft. .t.
Staff iaaters - grade 4      122       3  366.0 1422.28    4  488.0 1896.37    3  366.0 1422.28            0.0    0.00    2  244.0  948.18   12 1464.0 1689.11
- Grade 3       67       3  201.0  694.00          0.0    0.00    4  268.0  912.00           0.0    0.00    2  134.0  456.00    9  603.0 2062.00
- Grade 2       S1       2  102.0  320.08    4  204.0  640.15    2  102.0  320.08            0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00    8  408.0 1260.31
- Grade 1       45       4  180.0  550.62          0.0    0.00    4  180.0  s50.62           0.0    :.OO          0.0    0.00    8  360.0 1101.24
Nostel                                              0.00       300.0 1193.10                 0.00        300.0 1193.10                 0.00        600.0 2386.20
subtotal (a)                       12  849.0 m6.98    8  992.0 3729.62   13  916.0 3204.98    0  300.0 1193.10    4  378.0 1404.18   37 3433.0 12508.86
b. StAFF FACILITIES
Circuit Bunalow                            200.0  791.40                0.00                 0.00                 0.00        200.0  79.40         400.0 1590.60
OUwr Facilities                                     0.00        10.0  194.30         10.0  194.30         10.0  194.30         10.0  194.30        200.0  M.20
Subtol (b)                              200.0  796.40         50.0  194.30        50.0  194.30         60.0  194.30        250.0  969.70        600.0 2368.00
SUBTOTAL (aHb)                     1049.0 372.38        1042.0 3923.92        966.0 3399.28        310.0 1387.40        628.0 2t33.8        403.0 14876.86
6. SUBSTATINs DKtOPT
a. Field Labaratories/Offices                110.0  642.45                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        160.0   642.5
b. Stff quarten                           2  134.0  456.00          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00    2  134.0   456.0
c. Othe Faeflitiss                                    0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                  0.0
d. LaM Dmelp-mt                                       0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.0
SOTAL                                   2e4.0 1098.45          0.0    0.00         0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00   39  284.0  1098.5
7. RESEARC STATION DEVOPNT  (2)                        500.00               100.00               200.00               550.00               200.00              1550.00
SUBTOTAL AtI) through A(7)                       7660.62              4849.28              5704.40              2437.40             328L60              23940.30
8. CIVIL  RS  - IMPROM S (3)                              300.00               500.00               150.00               400.00               110.00              IsO0.00
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS (A06)                   1763.0 7960.62      1162.0 5349.28       1376.0 5854.40        350.0 2837.40        708.0 3438.60       5359.0 25440.30
(1) Includes generator, voltage stabilizer. water supply and storage. sewerage. rdio-telephone link. cmmnications. etc.                                          ,W
(2) Includas new irrigation, drainage, rads, fencing, land developnt. etc.                                                                                       I
(3) Includes i1rovements to existing facilities utilities, irription and electrical distribution.



SRI LAIII
ACRICULTIRAL 4ESEARCN PRWECT
CIVIL twORS
LOCATION:               A'KOLAPELESSA        BANDAREWELA         IRADURUIKOTTE       LAN MS &ATER USE     HEADQWRTERS 00           IED               TOTAL TALE  t2
Total   Cost        Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Total   Cost         Totl   Cost
Area W Rs.('000)    Are W Rs.('O0O)      Area Ns Rs.('OOO)    Are Hf Rs.C'O00)     Ae    t. R OOO)     Aim IH Rs.('OOO)     Ara HW R.('000)
A. CIVIL lRmtS - IE  COIISTmCTION
1. LAOATORY AND OFFICE BUILDINGS
Offices. Library, Etc.                                0.00                 0.00        250.0 1070.75        100.0  428.30       s5o.0 2141.50         ao.o  2509.S0       1460.0 6210.35
Laboratories                                          0.00        200.0  917.60                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        400.0 1835.20        s00.0 2752.80
SUBTOTAL                                    0.0    0.00        200.0  917.60        250.0 1070.75        100.0  428.30        500.0 2141.S0       1000.0 4406.00       2060.0  063.15
2. STOAOME AND WORESIOP FACILITIES
Cold Ro. S"d Stortge                                  0.00         15.0   80.30         30.0  140.69                 0.00                 0.00         30.0  160.59         75.0  401.48
Chemicals sd Fertilizr Storae                         0.00        200.0  673.00                 O.OD                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        200.0  673.00
Wosps. Garages. Etc.                                  0.00        200.0  673.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        100.0  336.50        300.0 100D.SO
Other Storage. Seeds. Etc.                            0.00                 0.00        200.0  336.60                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        200.0  338.60
SUSTOTAL                                    0.0    0.00        415.0 1426.30        230.0  497.19          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00        130.0  497.09        77.0 2420.52
3. GLASS9OUSES/SCREEDIOUSES
6lasshols With H atirglCoollng                       0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00         30.0  206.52         3D.0  206.52
Scree rouses. Irhctories                              0.00         60.0  244.72         80.0  244.72                 0.00                 0.00        10.0  480.44         320.0  978.8
SUBTOTAL                                    0.0    0.00         80.0  244.72         80.0  244.72          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00        190.0  865.96        350.0 1185.40
4. UTILITIES (1)                                       300.00               600.00               600.00                 0.00               750.00              1500.00              3750.00
S. lOUSING b STAFF FACILITIES   Unit Ara
a. IOUSING                    In Sql.t.  ft.                  no.                 No.                   he.                  go.                                      NO.  .
Staff Qwrters - Grads 4      122            0.0    0.00    1  122.0  474.09    3  356.0 1422.28            0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00    6  732.0 2844.56 10.0 1220.0 4740.92
-Grade 3        67            0.0    0.00    2  134.0  456.00    3  201.0  684.00            0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00    3  201.0  U64.00  8.0  536.0 1824.00
-Grad 2         51       6  306.0  960.23    2  102.0  320.08    4  204.0  660.15             0.0    0.00         0.0    0.00    5  2SS.O  800.19 17.0  867.0 2720.66
- Grade 1       45       2   90.0  27S.31    8  360.0  1101.24    5  225.0  6.28             0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00    S  360.0 1101.24 23.0 1035.0 3166.07
ostel                                               0.00       300.0 1193.10        300.0 1193.10                 0.00                 0.00        300.0 1183.10        800.0 3579.30
Subtotal (a)                        8  396.0 1235.54   13 1018.0 3544.51   15 1296.0 4627.81    0    0.0    0.00    0    0.0    0.00   22 1408.0 6623.00   58 458O  18030.94
b. STAfF FACILITIES
Circuit Sunplow                                     0.00                0.00        200.0  796.40                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00        200.0  795.40
Othe Faclfties                                      0.00        50.0  194.30          0.00  194.30                 0.00                0.00         50.0  194.30        150.0  582.90
Subtotal (b)                             0.0    0.0L          SO.0  194.30        250.0  989.70          0.0    0.00         0.0    0.00         50.0  194.30        350.0 1378.30
SUBTOTAL (a)+(b)                    396.0 1235.54       1068.0 3738.81       1546.0 5617.51          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00       lI.o  6817.36        4908.0 1740.24
6. SUBSATION DEVLOPNT
a. Field L*boratoritslOffices                         0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00          0.0    0.00
b. Stff Quarters                               0.0    0.00    3  201.0  694.00           0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00    3  201.0  884.00
c. Other Facilities                                   0.00               500.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00               500.00
d. Lafd DOslomant                                     0.00               1SO.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00               10.00
SUBTOTAL                                 0.0    0.00         201.0 1334.00         0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00         0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00   61  201.0 14.00
7. RE6AR  STATIN ONVELOPHEUT (2)                       100.00               4O.O0                100.00                 0.00                 0.00               100.00               70o0.e
SUBTOTAL ACI) through A(7)                       1635.54              8661.43              8130.17               428.30              2891.50             14015.43             35762.37
. CIVIL WRS - IIROVETS (3)                                400.00               200.00               300.00                 0.00                 0.00               200.00              1100.00
MTAL CIVIL WRS  (A+B)                     396.0 2035.54       1964.0 8861.43       2106.0 8430.17         100.0  428.30      s5O.0 2891.50        m8.0 14215.43           4.0 3662.37
(1) Incldes   erator. voltage stabilizer, water supply and storage. s_mege, radio-telephone lin*. cniMcationos etc.
(2) Includes new Irrigtion. drainage, roads, fecing, land dselopment. etc.
(3) Includes igmroats to existing facilities, utilities. irrigation and electrical distribution.



IRI IA4A
FasltLIL. t4  AL SEA00  PRWJECt                                                                                                      A0E 2
0ttt7 IIOIS                                                                                                                 Tablto 3
?-&go 3
LOCA10010:                   cot                  000                  90                      50             rORtSI REOSAR0         0N0V0RS09t oF              rl                  0*;                '0AtARES         t10At '*AtI *3
KPLADE006
To.*W   00,0         0007    Cost           00tTo   Cost        totJl   Cast         TItal   Co,t           Total   Cot         '*t.'   Cos-           TOU'   -t^t          Tot.    Co"t          locl   Cot
A CIVIL.      . ha    T1111 00                     AM     0oAU.  0      A's4 p- 9o.C!I        AM  W5  R.!-'00     AM  W 0, ('000)       A- NO Rs .(0001       AM A' 0t ( 0OO       AM  90 JOC     O      Oo,a 9     f. ftO     AM. .1 p'0c5t.:'     A-c. -  ft.1'000
O. CtM09!04 949I 000CC 6000.00000
0091c.., 10t-&,Y* 00.                                   0.0,         300.' I2.90           300.0  ! 20.90      r000.  2500.80                  0.00 .C0 OJC         .                                                       40:1.L 0113.:0      000.C bb!;.r~
1. 4                  0,22070                     00 440,)  00.0                            220.0I o.:OO         400.0  1030.00                 0.00                  0.00        602.0  '700.00         M0. '.:Ml.'                  '.00        370    "0"?9.40
"7D`bO                                        O.V *,,  c e    ^ ^*   300. 12e^:sc       aooc       90       tcW4 e < 0510           q.0    0. 0                   ..0 00 ee           i.o.o  22n,. o                     44 C 173K0.          2'1..0 3 406s -
2.0m MS      VANSHt  '1 AC LIT1ES
Ct'7 ro*,, 0.d    t'                           C*..     :..00                                       0.00                 0.00                  O.O0                 0.00                  0.DO                  t.op                 0.W          Is.,.  00.le
0099b3*0 ^*4 r..tott*.r sto.no.                '00.0  314.0          0,02.O  346.00                 0.oO                 0.00                  0.00                 0.00                  1.0L                  7.0                  0.00        7o0.e  $?..eo
wasb4,0s9.705, 0.9", Etc.                               0.00          00.0 1 6o.oc                  0 .O                 0.00                  0.      I       o      0                    .          10 C -4w 00                    0              .t .
otha. OstAoate 0.    010 tt.                    000    0.1           000.0  106.0                   0.,D0                020                   02.0 20,0  0094' 0r                                   00"    "('A' 37       00 0    PA4.00       -'0.0'  900.00
A,s00TCTAL                                   .o       0.9'        20.0  67, E3t           0.r    7 .00         0.0    0.o0           0.0    0.00          0.1.    0.00        20.3  33..6r          200    5'4.W9,        20.0  06. 0.        *oo.0 29.0SO
3. 9..'2081ts 1000900E@t0
T"Al9l0oe  WU00  ut.91toLt4O                            ,.10                  0.00                  0.00         30.0  206.02                  0.00                  c.o         o         o.0r 0400  iC'E.6                         0.0.         70.0  40.911
Sttcr09.0es. 19.torteo                          00.0  267.1                   0.00                  0.00        $0.0  244.72                   0.00                 0.04          20.0   6t.1t         SC r  704.72                  2.0oe         .o.0  M9. 34
S0tTOTAL                                    89.0  244.'             0.3    0.00          ,.0    0.Do         110.0  400.2A           0,0    0.00          o.e    0.00          00.0   61.10        13      o               0.0    0.00         330.C 12t7.n
A. tT:Ut0.S ll)                                         200.00                0000.010               000.00               300.00                  0.00                 0.0000              MM00 .0                                      0.50               t2s0.00
G. 101CSIC S 0STAFF CA00tl0l0is  Aot AM,
."OuSINS0                     1.sQ.t.  90.                     No.                  0l.                   No.                  ft.                   ft.                                        NO. 9.                90.                  90.
St.Oo  ,"  - 4OoAw 4         160       2  320.  .243.52            0.0    0.O      2  320.0  0263.0    7J  120.0  A200.32     3  400.0 10"0.2            0.0    0.00    4  0O0.0  3200.00    34 4100  00s0.20             2.0    0.00   22 202.0 037.72
G lat 3         040       4  s40.0  190s.00          0.0    o.oo    2200.0  002.04               0.0    o,oo          0.0    0.00   is 2000.0  '146.20    3  '20.0  1.23.6    4  s40.0  00s.46              0.0    0.00   2S 3020.0 11390.70
.-G 26  0C 2 T                00.0  67s6.4      o        0   0.00    2  040.0  423.22    0140.0  439.32               0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00 s       30.0  04.30    2140.0  029.32               0.0    0.00   00  10910.03 UN.S0
'fd , I                       0.0    0.00           0.0    O.0    0  4091.0 I202.80    0  270.,  00.0,3             0.0    4.00           0.0    0.00           0.0    0. 0          0.0    0.06           0.0    0.00   is  GIs.0 206. 43
90000'                          390.~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0 0203.0   0.0                    .600       00.00 0.00                                                                0.0           000   03.0                    .0          690 2m26.0 
2440ta  (a)                          00 040.0  0020094    0    0.0    0.00   00 0040.0  374.90   is 0030.0 5601.57    3  410.0  1900.20   00 2000.0  7040.20   23 0250.0  0636s.6    9 0400.  04.                 0      .       00 o0  975.034704.41
b. sTA 0 fAOkluoT.
C-Cos.0lt b.4lo                                       0.00                 0.00         200.0  7.40          200.0  700.60                  0.00                  0.O0                 0.00         000.0  20770                  0.0          900.0o 09S.O0
Ot0  FPeiOt1tsf                              SO.0  1904.30                 0.00         0.   0.                       0.20                  0.00                  0.00                0o.00        00          0.00                            00.0  34.0
0.0t0t0 (b)                               30.0  29.0             0.0    0.00         200  09 .70         020.0  790.40            0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00         100.0  207.70          0.0    0.00         00.0 23.10
242900*0 C*)oCb)                     161o.0 0000.:24         0.0    0.00        0200.  406.90         1020.0 6400.91        4o0.0 000020         2100.0  7044.20       2000.0  0636.20      0890.0  090.00          0.0    0.00       0390.0 27240.00
0. SWLTATI101 090ELOPO6
*. 70.04 UbO.040/0000o.,                       lOO.C  400.20         00.0  204.15                   0.00                  0.20                 0.00                  0.20                 0.O2                  0.00                 0.00         0SO.0  963.01
b00f 00.7Ow6                                     C.0    0.00    204.0  40600                0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00    4  240.0  912.90            0.0    0.00   6*4.0 ozo       oo
C. 0090 0940000t90                                      0.0W                200000                  0.00                 0.00                  0.00                  0.00                 0.00                  0.00                 0.00          0.0  060.00
4. t_c Oh90o0t                                          0.00                  0.00                  0.00                 0.00                  0.00                  0.00                 0.00                  0.00                 o.00          0.0    0.40
S00TAL                                   000.0  420.00         16.0  430.0S            0.0    0.00          0.0    0.00           0.0    0.00          0.0    0.40           0.0    0.20         269.0  912.00          0.0    0.00   91  0S2.0 2246.40
7. 9000St90I 04 SlT204t  010.067 (2)2                      0.00               00.00                  400.00                100.00                 0.00                  0.00                 0.00                  0.90                 0.00               2400.00
Sr00006(0) t7M 0072.                               6049.21               7s.00                7)0.06               a2069.2n               1900.21              7040.20              00290.96              12009.59              17127.35             40.03
S. C09IL OM  * 000y      0  (3]                             390.00                750.00                200.00                 0.00                  o.oD                 0.00                  0.00                000.00                 0.00              02500oo
700TAt CI0I0  lt0s (04) 0S6S.90 92S6.21                           734.0  024.10       tb40.0  7s9.09        26O.0 02069.01         080.0 l080.29        2200.0  246.20       220.0 0086.9          ".0 039.SO           4I0.0  1797.3S       IS22.0 OS331.11
(12 IOLl.t-t   9eote. v0lt00    s6b001t0w, *t0 ttr y 46J _ te . st     ". r,40._t*f       009lak. c01i,,tt(". 60.
t(0 t0.cw4  "6  tn'ig0oo. t4t79p,  I0646, t0900.9, 0.,4 &"Iot09,  *40.
(22 OcOteSr..t  f99..n os 0        fette.t6oA.,g 4000040100. .OAOA . t tor. 99o 6390t 10t6  400ist1b0t9o0.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EQUIPMNT AND VEHICLES
LOCATION:   C.A.R.t.       BATALAGODA        BONBUWELA      MARA ILLUPPALLAtIA    AKANOUMA      A'KOLAPELESSA    TOTAL TABLE E1
No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost       Ito.   Cost       "o.    Cost       No.   Cost       No.   cost
Units Rs.('000)  Units Rs.('OOO)  Units Rs.('000)  Units Rs.('000)   Units Rs.('000)  Units Rs.(VOOO)  Units.Rs.(000)
C. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
1. VEHICLES AND FARM EQUIPMENT
(a) VEHICLES
Cars                            1  225.00        1  225.00             0.00        1  225.00                0.00            0.00        3  675.00
Jeeps                           2  500.00        1  250.00        2  500.00             0.00                0.00            0.00        5 1250.00
Vans                            1  200.00        1  200.00        1  200.00             0.00          1  200.00        1  200.00        5 1000.00
Buses/Trucks                         0.00             0.00             0.00             0.00               0.00             0.00        0    0.00
Motorcycles                     5   75.00             0.00        5   75.00             0.00               0.00             0.00       10  150.00
Bicycles                        5   10.00             0.00        4    8.00             0.00               0.00       10   20.00       19   38.00
SUBTOTAL                    14 1010.00        3  675.00       12  783.00        1  225.00          1   200.00      11  220.00       42 3113.00
(b) FARM EQUIPNEHT
Four Wheel Tractors                  0.00        1  200.00             0.00             0.00               0.00             0.00        1  200.00
Two Wheel Tractors              2   70.00        1   35.00        2   70.00             0.00                0.00       2   70.00        7  245.00
Other (1)                           S00.00           100.00           200.00           200.00              50.00           120.00          1170.00
SUBTOTAL                     2  570.00        2  335.00        2  270.00        0  200.00          0    50.00       2  190.00        8 1615.00
SUBTOTAL 1 (a)+(b)          16 1580.00        5 1010.00       14 1053.00        1  425.00          1   250.00      13  410.00       50 4728.00
2. LASORATORY & OFFICE FURNITURE
(a) LA8ORATORY FURNITURE               50.00            15.00           120.00            20.00              60.00            55.00           320.00
(b) OFFICE FURNITURE                   70.00            20.00            80.00            25.00              70.00            55.00           320.00
SUBTOTAL 2 (a)+(b)               120.00            35.00           200.00            45.00             130.00           110.00           640.00     5,
3. LABORATORY 6 OFFICE EQUIPMENT
(a) LABORATORY EQUIPMENT             1175.00           481.50           899.00           311.00             143.00           510.00          3519.50
(b) OFFICE EQUIPMENT
Typewriter                      2   50.00        1   25.00        2   50.00        I   25.00          1   25.00        1   25.00        a  200.00
Photocopier                     2   80.00        1   40.00        1   40.00             0.00          1   40.00        1   40.00        6  240.00
Calculator. Pocket             10    5.00        5    2.50        6    3.00             0.00          3    1.50        S    2.50       29   14.50
Calculator, Prograable          6   18.00        1    3.00        4   12.00        3    9.00          2    6.00        5   15.00       21   63.00
Microcomputer S Software        1  250.00             0.00        1  250.00        1  250.00          1   250.00       1  250.00        5 1250.00
Fans                            2    4.00              0.00       6   12.00        5   10.00          5    10.00       5   10.00       23   46.00
Air Conditioners                4  100.00        5  125.WO        3   75.00        3   75.00          1    25.00             0.00      16  400.00
Other Equipmient                     15.00           40.00             10.00            25.00              15.00            20.00           125.00
SUBTOTAL                    27  522.00       13  235.50       23  452.00       13  394.00         14   372.50      18  362.50      108 2338.60
SUBTOTAL 3 (a)+(b)              1697.00           717.00          1351.00           705.00             515.50           872.5           5858.00
4. LI8RARY DEVELOPMENT
(a) BOOMS                             450.00            75.00            75.00           100.00              75.00            75.00            850.00
(b) PERIODICALS                       700.00            50.00             0.00             0.00               50.00           50.00           950.00
(c) LIBRARY FURNITURE b EQUIPMENT     360.00            30.00            30.00            30.00              30.00            30.00            510.00
SUBTOTAL 4 (a)+(b)+(c)          1510.00           IS.CO           155.00           180.00             155.00           155.00          2310.00
S. LABORATORY ACCESSORIES & SPARES      1500.00           500.00          1000.00           350.00              250.00          1200.00         4800.00
TOTAL EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES       6407.00          2417.00          3759.00          1705.00            1300.50          2747.50         18336.00
(1) Igplaments, Plant Protection Equipment. Workshop Tools. Etc.                                                                                       5



SRt LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EQUIPHENT AND VEHICLES
LOCATION: BANOARE1ELA    GIRANURUKOE   LAND A WATER USE NEAOQTS. (DOA)        SUBTOTAL (O0A)     EECc CRI                          RI           TAL subtAStOOA)
NO.   Cost      NO.   Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost       NO.    Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost
units Rs.('000)  Units                                 R.t.('0OO) units Rs. (Iwo)  Units Rs.('000)   units Rs.(.ODD)  units as.*ooO)  units as.(10)  Unit Ra.POO)  Unis Rs.(,'O0O0)
C. EQUIPST ASD VEHICLES
1. VEICLES AND FARW EQUIPNET
(a) MEHICLES
Cars                           1  225.00             0.00             0.00       1  225.00         S 112S.00        1  225.00        1  225.00       1  22s.00        5 1125.00
jeeps                                0.00       2  500.00             0.00            0.00         I :750.00        2  S00.00       2  600.00        3  750.00        9 2250.00
Vans                                 0.00       1  200.00             0.00       1  200.00            1400.00       1  200.00        1  200.00             0.00       4  800.00
Buse/Trucks                          0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00         0    0.00             0.00        1  350.00       1  350.00        2  700.00
Notorcycles                    1   15.00        2   30.00             0.00       2   30.00         15  225.00       2   30.00        S   75.00       6   90.00       18  270.00
Bicycles                            0.00        3    6.00             0.00            0.00        22   44.00        s   10.00             0.00       7   14.00       IS   30.00
SUBTOTAL                    2  240.00        8  736.00        0    0.00       4  455.00         56 4544.00      11  965.00       10 1350.00       18 1429.00      53 s17s.00
tb) FARM EQUIPMENT
Four Uheel Tractors            1  200.00        1  200.00             0.00            0.00         3  600.00              0.00            0.00       2  400.00        4  800.00
Two Wel Tractors               1   35.00        1   35.00             0.00            0.00         9  315.00        1   35.00             0.00             0.00       3  105.00
Otber (1)                          176.00          200.00            20.00            0.00            1566.00           400.00          200.00           s50.00          1545.00
SUBTOTAL                    2  410.00        2  435.00        0   20.00       0    0.00         12  2480.00       1  43s.00       0  200.00        2  950.00       7 2450.00
SUBTOTAL I (a)+(b)          4  650.00       10 1171.00       0   20.00        4  455.00         68  7024.00      12 1400.00      10 ISS1.00       20 2379.00      60 7625.00
2. LABORATORY 6 OFFICE FURNITURE
(a) UBORATORY FURNITURE              100.00           100.00           22.00             0.00             542.00          225.00           S1.00           300.00          87.00   SW
(b) OFFICE FURNITURE                  60.00            40.00            25.00          200.00             635.00          IS0.00            9t6.00          100.00          660.00    g
SUBTOTAL 2 (a)+(b)              ISO.00           140.00           47.00           200.00            1177.00          37s.00           243.00          400.00          1557.00
3. LAsORATOR   OFFICE EQUIPNT
(a) LABORATORY EQUIPHET              660.00           500.00           600.00            0.00            6279.60          2IS0.00         1000.00          3s5o.00         8410.00
(b) OFFICE EQVIPMET
Twriter                        1   25.00        1   2S.00       1   26.00        2   50.00         13  325.00       3   7s.00        3   75.00        3    S.OO      14  350.00
Photocopier                    1   40.00             0.00       1   40.00        2   80.00         10  400.00             0.00       1   40.00             0.00       5  200.00
Calculator. Pocket             6    3.00        8    4.00       2    1.00              0.00        45   22.60       6    3.00        6    3.00        6    3.00      34   17.00
Calculator. Prorammble         1    3.00        2    6.00       2    6.00        4   12.00         30   90.00       5   1S.00        2    6.00       8   24.00       24   72.00
Microcmpputer I Software       I  2SO.00             0.00             0.00            0.00         6  1500.00       1  250.00        1  250.00        1  260.00       4 1000.00
Fans                           1    2.00        3    6.00             0.00       6   12.00        33   66.00       25   60.00        6   12.00        6   12.00      47   94.00
Air Conditioners               1   25.00        3   75.00             0.00       1   25.00         21   s2s.00       3   75.00       2   60.00        4  100.00      14  350.00
Othr Equipent                       20.00           1s.00            Is.00           100.00             27S.00          IOO.O            20.00           25.00           295.00
SUBTOTAL                   12  368.00       17  131.00        6   87.00      IS  279.00        158  3203.60      43  S68.00      21  466.00       28  489.00    I  2378.00
SUBTOTAL 3 (a)+(b)             1028.00          631.00           687.00           279.00            6483.00         2718.00          1456.00          3969.oo         0788.00
4. LIORARY DEVELOPT
(a) BgOOS                             7s.00            75.00           S0.00             0.00             900.00           200.00          200.00           200.00          800.00
(b) ERIOOICALS                        so.00            50.00           SO.00             0.00            1000.00           300.00          400.00           400.00          1260.00
(c) LIBRRY FURNITURE A EQUIPET        30.00            30.00           20.00             0.00             S30.00            75.00           60.00            50.00           255.00
SUBTOTAL 4 (a)+(b).(c)          ISS.00          1S5.00           120.00             0.00            2430.00         s5s.00            660.00           660.00         2305.00
s. LABORATORY ACCESSORIES S SPARES      500.00           200.00           SO.00             0.00            5560.00          1000.00         2200.00          2800.00          6750.00
TOTAL EQUIPMEN AND VEHICLES       2483.00         2297.00           924.00           934.00           24664.00         6068.00          6101.00         10218.00        29025.00  J  iU
(1) Implewnts. Plant Protection Equipment. Workshop Tools, Etc.



SRI LAWA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PRWECT
EQUIPET AN10 VEHICLES
LOCATION:    UAA             SRI         FOREST RESEARCN  UtIVERSITY OF        TRI               RRI           CARP/S        PROJECT NAAENT  TOTAL TABLE 93
PERAEIYA                                                              UIIT
No.   Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost       mo.   Cost       No.    Cost      No.   Cost      Ho.   Cost       No.   Cost     lb.   cost
Units Rs.('000)  Units Rs.('000)  Units R3.(eoo)  Units Rs.(O000)   Units Rs.('010)  Units Rs.(#OOO)  Units RS.(O0O)  Units Rs.( OO)  units Rs.('O00)
C. EQUI    aR MO VEHICLES
1. VICLES MC FAM EQUIPNT
(a) VEHICLES
Cars                          1  225.00             0.00             0.00            0.00         1  225.00       1  225.00       2  450.00       1  225.00        6 1310.00
JePs                          2  s00.00             0.0o             0.00            0.00         2  100.00       2  s5o.00       1  210.00      .2  50o.0o        9 2250.00
Voan                          1  200.00             0.00            0.00             0.00              0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00       I  200.0o
eeslTrucks                          0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00         1  350.00       1  310.00             0.00            0.00       2  700.00
NOtorcycles                    3   45.00            0.00             0.00            0.00         2   30.00            0.00       2   30.00        1   15.00       8  120.00
Bicycles                      s   10.00             0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00       2    4.00       3    6.00       10   20.00
SUtTOTAL                   12  980.0        0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00         6 1101.00       4 107s.00        7 I   .eo       7  746.00      36 4640.0O
(f) FARN EOUIPtN
Fror tase  Tractors                 0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00         1  200.00            0.00             0.00            0.00       1  20o.00
Two tml Tractors                    0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00         2   70.00            0.00             0.00            0.00       2   70.00
othor (1)                         so0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00           600.00            0.00            0.00         Il0.0O
SUBTOTAL                    0  500.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00         3 270.00        0  600.00        0    0.00       0    0.00       3 1370.00
SUBTOTAL I (a)+(b)         12 1480.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00         9 1375.00       4 1675.00        7  734.00       7  746.00      39 6010.00
2. LABORATORY & OFFICE FURNITURE
(a) LAORATOY FUNITURE                130.00            0.00            0.00            0.00               0.00          s5.0o             0.00            0.o            180.00
(b) OFFICE FURITURE                   30.00            0.00            0.00            0.00               0.00            0.00           10.00 150.00                   330.00
SUTOTAL 2 ta3.(b)              160.00            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            50.00          110.00           Is0.00          SI.OO
3. LAB_ T0  6 OFFICE EIUIPHT
(a) mmTov EqUIpT                    3s00.00            0.00            0.00             0.00           2120.00         8000.oo            0.00             0.00        14020.00
(b) OFFICE EUIPET
Tyviter                        1   25.00            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.O0       I   21.00       2   50.00        2   50.00       6  150.00
MaotocWper                    1   40.00             0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00       1   40.00       4  140.00        1   40.00       7  288.00
Calcuiator, Pocket             6    3.00            0.00            0.00             0.00              0.00            0.00       2    1.00        3     .50      11    1.5O
Caklclator. Progranble              0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00       4   12.00        1    3.00       s   IS.OO
Microcomputer & Software       1  250.00            0.00             0.00            0.00         1  250.00             0.00       1  210.00       2  100.0        5 1250.00
Fan                            5   10.00            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00            0.00       6   12.00             0.00      11   22.00
Air Conditioners               3   75.oo            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00             0.00      2   10.00        2   S1.OO       7  IS.OO
Otr Equipsat                       10.00            0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00             0.00          100.00          100.00           210.00
SUBTOTAL                   17  413.00       0    0.00       0    0.00        0    0.00         1  250.00       2   61.00       21  635.00      11  744.1       52 2107.10
SUBTOTAL 3 (a)+(b)            4313.00            0.00             0.00            0.00            2370.00         8061.00          635.00           744.SO        16127.50
4. LIBRARY DEVELOPNENT
(a) BOOKS                            200.00          200.00           75.00            0.00             100.00          100.00           100.00            0.00          775.00
(b) PERIOOICALS                      300.00          300.00           50.00            0.00             200.00          200.00           50.00             0.00         1100.00
(c) LIBRARY FURNITURE 8 EQUIPMENT    100.00          100.00           30.00            0.00             100.00          100.00            20.00            0.00          450.00
SUBtOTAL 4 (a)+(b)+(c)         600.00           600.00          155.00            0.00             400.00          400.00          170.00            0O.O          2325.00
5. LABORATORY ACCESSORIES & SPARES      00.00             0.00            0.00            0.00             150.00         2000.00            0.00             0.00         3950.00
TOTAL EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES     8353.00          600.00           155.00            0.00            4295.00        12190.00         1689.00          1640.50        28922.50
(I) Implements, Plant Protection Equipment. Workshop Tools, Etc.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FELLOWSHIPS AND TRAINING
Numbers of Fellowships by Project Year                            Phased Cost of Fellowships/Training (Rs.000)
~---------------~--------------------------    Unit Cost -------------------------____-___________________ -____
1     2    3    4    5    6    7   Total (Rs.00OO)   1            2       3        4       5        6       7    Total Cost
A. LONG TERN FELLuiSHIPS
PhD Degree (Foreign)           2      2    8    8    6                  26   1500.0    3000.0  3000.0  12000.0 12000.0  9000.0       0.0      0.0  39000.0
MSc Degree
(Foreign)           2      5    8   15   20                  50   1000.0    2000.0  5000.0  8000.0 15000.0 20000.0         0.0     0.0  50000.0
(Local)                    3    7   16                       26    50.0         0.0   150.0   350.0   800.0       0.0      0.0     0.0   1300.0
S. SNORT TERN TRAINING
Foreign (Av. 3 mm)                    5   15   15   15   15   12    77    150.0            0.0   750.0  2250.0  2250.0  2250.0  2250.0  1800.0  11550.0
Local (Av. 3 mn)                      3    6    6    6    6    6    33    15.0             0.0    45.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    495.0
C. STUDY TOURS (C.A.R.P.)             1    2    2                       5      150.0       0.0   150.0   300.0   3U0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    750.0
D. SEMINARS AND WORKSHOPS
C.A.R.I.                       24.0    48.0    48.0    60.0    24.0    24.0    12.0    240.0
Batalagoda                      6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0     60.0
Bombuwela                       6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0     60.0
M4aha Illuppallama              8.0    16.0    16.0    20.0       8.0     8.0      4.0      80.0
Makandura                       6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0     60.0
A'Kolapelessa                   6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0     60.0
Bandarawela                     6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0      60.0
Girandurukotte                  6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0     60.0
Subtotal                 68.0   136.0   136.0   170.0    68.0    68.0    34.0    680.0   a,
MECD                            6.0    12.0    12.0    15.0       6.0     6.0      3.0      60.0
CRI                             8.0    16.0    16.0    20.0       8.0     8.0      4.0     80.0
YRI                             8.0    16.0    16.0    20.0       8.0     8.0      4.0     80.0
MAM                             8.0    16.0    16.0    20.0       8.0     8.0      4.0     80.0
SRI                             S.S    10.9    11.0    13.8       5.5     5.5      2.8     55.0
FOREST RESOURCES                5.5    10.9    11.0    13.8       5.S     5.5      2.8     55.0
Subtotal                 41.0    81.8    82.0   102.6    41.0    41.0    20.6    410.0
TRI                             8.0    16.0    16.0    20.0       8.0     8.0      4.0      80.0
RRI                             8.0    16.0    16.0    2D.0       8.0     8.0      4.0     80.0
Subtotal                 16.0    32.0    32.0    40.0    16.0    16.0        8.0    160.0
UNIV. OF PERADEIIYA            25.0    50.0    50.0    62.5    25.0    25.0    12.5    250.0
TOTAL                   150.0   299.8   300.0   375.1   150.0   150.0    75.1   1500.0
SUM6ARY BY PROJECT YEAR (Rs.000)
1       2       3        4        S       6        7    Tczal Cost
_______  _______________ -_----_-__-_--__-_-__-_-_-_-___________
Long Term Foreign Fellowships      5000.0  8000.0 20000.0 27000.0 29000.0       0.0      0.0  89000.0
Long Term Local Fellowships          0.0   150.0   350.0   800.0        0.0     0.0      0.0   1300.0
Short Term Foreign Training          0.0   750.0  2250.0  2250.0  2250.0  2250.0  1800.0  11550.0
Short Term Local Training            0.0    45.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    495.0
Study Tours (C.A.R.P.)                0.0   150.0   300.0   300.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    750.0
Seminars S Workshops               £50.0   299.8   300.0   375.1   150.0   150.0    75.1   1500.0
TOTAL TRAINING & FELLOWSHIPS       5150.0  9394.8 23290.0  30815.1 31490.0  2490.0  1965.1  104595.0



-61-               ~~~~ANNEX 2
-61-                       Table 6
SRI L4NR
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II
Manpover Developneut: Fellogwhi2 Program
N.Sc Felloahins         Ph.D Fellovahigs
Agronomy                                 9                       9
Entomology/Nematology                   10                       1
Plant Breeding/Genetics                  6                       2
Plant Pathology                          8                       1
Plant Physiology                         2                       1
Plant Chemistry                          1                       1
Weed Science                             2                       -
Soil Science                             6                       -
Soil Physics                             -                       1
Food Technology                          3                       1
Microbiology                             -                        1
Tissue Culture                           -                       2
Biometrics                               5                       -
Water Management                         1                       -
Horticulture                             3                       1
Agriculture Economics                    6                       -
Agriculture Engineering                  1                       -
Engineering Technology                   2                       -
Animal Health                            2                       -
Animal Breeding                          1                       1
Animal Nutrition                         -                       1
Pastures and Fodder                      1                       -
Fish Technology                          1                       1
Fish Biology                             1                       1
Fish Genetics                            1                       -
Aquaculture                              1                       1
Oceangraphy                              1                       1
Enviroomental Studies                    1                       -
Economics Marketing                      1                       -
76                      26
inminm ~ ~    ~    =m



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Numbers of Man Months by Project Year                  Phased Technical Assistance Cost by Project Year (Rs.'000)
----.--------------------- ____------              MfM Cost -----------------------------------------------------
1      2     3      4     5      6   Total M/M (Rs.'OOO)         1      2       3      4      5       6 Total Cost
A. SPECIALIST POSITION
Research Planning and Budgeting   6        3      3                          12       324.0    1944.0  972.0  972.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3888.0
Research Management                 6     12      3                          21       324.0    1944.0 3888.0  972.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6804.0
Research Evaluation                 6                                         6       324.0    1944.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1944.0
CARP Administration & Management  6                                           6       324.0    1944.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1944.0
Farming Systems                     3      3                                  6       324.0      972.0  972.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1944.0
Pasture and Fodder Crops            3                                         3       324.0      972.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        972.0
Local Consultants (1)               15    15    15    10    10       5       70       20.0       300.0  300.0  300.0  200.0  200.0  100.0    1400.0
Subtotal                 45    33    21    10    10       5       124               10020.0 6132.0 2244.0  200.0  200.0  100.0   18896.0
(1) To assist CARP in preparation of the National Agricultural Research Plan, review of and clearing
annual research proposals of all research institutions, and monitoring research programs.
SUMMARY TABLE
PROJECT YEAR (Phased Man Months)                              PROJECT YEAR (Phased Cost in Rs.'000)
1      2     3      4     5      6   Total M/M                1      2       3      4      5       6    Total Cost
Long Term Technical Assistance    6       12      3     0      0     0       21                1944.0  3888.0 972.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    6804.0              n1
Short Term Technical Assistance   39    21    18    10    10         5       103               8076.0  2244.0 1272.0 200.0  200.0  100.0   12092.0              -4 rz
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          45    33    21    10    10       5       124               10020.0 6132.0 2244.0 200.0  200.0  100.0   18896.0



-463-
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                           AU          2
CONTRACT RESEARCH                                   Table 8
Phased Contract Research Cost by Project Year (Rs.'O0O)
.... ....._ ........ __.. ... ....._...._......_.._......_....
1       2        3        4        5        6         7    Total Cost
A. APPLIED RESEAPCH
WA                                               6120.0  12240.0  12240.0  15300.0  6120.0  6120.0   3060.0  61200.0
NECO                                              490.0   980.0   980.0  1225.0   490.0   490.0    245.0   4900.0
VRI                                              1030.0  2060.0  2060.0  2575.0  1030.0  1030.0    515.0  10300.0
kARA                                              320.0   640.0   640.0   800.0   320.0   320.0    160.0   3200.0
SRI                                               100.0   200.0   200.0   250.0   100.0   100.0          SO.0   1000.0
FOREST RESEARCH                                   370.0   740.0   740.0   925.0   370.0   370.0    185.0   3700.0
CRI                                                30.0    60.0    60.0    75.0    30.0    30.0          15.0    300.0
TRI                                                32.0    64.0    64.0    80.0    32.0    32.0          16.0    320.0
RRI                                                60.0   120.0   120.0   150.0    60.0    60.0          30.0    600.0
Subtotal                                  85S2.0  17104.0  17104.0  21380.0  8552.0  8552.0   4276.0  85520.0
S. INTER-INSTITUTIONAL RESEARCH PROUQM
Crop-Livestock                                    498.0   996.0   996.0  1245.0   498.0   498.0    249.0   4980.0
Coconut Interctopp1ng                             676.0  1352.0   1352.0  1690.0   676.0   676.0    338.0   6760.0
Farming Systems                                   374.5   749.0   748.9   936.3    374.5   374.5    187.3   3745.0
Subtotal                                  1548.5  3097.0  3096.9  3871.3  1548.5  1548.5    774.3  15485.0
C. SPECIAL RESEARCH PROSRMIS
For University Research, Agro.Ecoa_c Rsearch    955.0  1910.0  1910.0  2387.5   955.0   955.0    477.5   9550.0
and Research by Emineet Scientists
0. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
Adaptive Research Trials en farinr  Fields        993.0  1986.0  1986.0  2482.5   993.0   993.0    496.5   9930.0
TOTAL CONTRACT RESEARCH                  12048.S 24097.0 24096.9  30121.3  12048.5  12048.5   6024.3  120485.0



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
COUNICIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH POLICY
INCREMENTAL STAFF AND OPERATING COSTS
Cumulative Nan Years by Project Year                         Phased Salaries S Allowances by Project Year (Rs.'00)
--_________----------_--_------------------------------ Total  N/Y Cost ------------------------------------------------ ----------------
1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    N/Y  (Rs.'000)   1         2     3     4     5      6     7     8      9   Total Cost
A. STAFFING POSITION
Executive Secretary          1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   9.0         65.O    65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0  66.0  65.0  65.0  65.0    585.0
Senior Scientists            2.0   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  34.0         40.0    80.0 160.0 160.0 160.0 160.0 160.0 160.0 160.0 160.0   1360.0
Agricultural Economist       1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   9.0         40.0    40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Statistical Officer          1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   9.0         40.0    40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Information Officer          1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   9.0         40.0    40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Research/Administrative Staff   3.0   8.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  8.0  67.0    30.0    90.0 240.0 240.0 240.0 240.0 240.0 240.0 240.0 240.0   2010.0
Support Staff                2.0   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  42.0    20.0    40.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0    840.0
Subtotal            11.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0  179.0                395.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0   6875.0
Cumulative Units by Project Year                              Phased Operational Cost by Project Year (Rs.'000)
1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   Total    Unit        1      2     3     4     5      6     7     8      9   Total Cost
S. VEHICLES                                                                    Units    Cost
Car                           1.0   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  17.0        35.0     35.0  70.0  70.0  70.0  70.0  70.0  70.0  70.0  70.0    595.0
Jeep                                1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   8.0        25.0      0.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0    200.0
Motorcycle                    1.0   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  17.0        12.0     12.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0    204.0
Subtotal            2.0   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  42.0                  47.0 119.0 119.0 119.0 119.0 119.0 119.0 119.0 119.0   999.0
C. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Office Expenses    20.0%                                                                20.0%      79   137   137   137   137   137   137   137   137   1175.0
of Salaries 5 Allowances
Rent on Office     (No. Yrs.) 1.0   1.0  1.0                                           750.0    750.0 750.0 750.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2250.0
Seminars S Conference(Per Yr.)  0.5   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   2.5      30.0     15.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0    255.0
Subtotal   891.0 1036.0 1036.0 286.0 286.0 286.0 286.0 286.0 286.0   4679.0
SUWARY BY PROJECT YEAR (Rs.'OOO)
C.A.R.P.                     1      2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9     Totalk
Salaries and Allowances     395.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0 685.0   5875.0
Operational Costs           938.0 1155.0 1155.0 405.0 405.0 405.0 405.0 405.0 405.0   5678.0
Subtotal              1333.0 1840.0 1840.0 1090.0 1090.01090.01090.0 1090.0 1090.0  11553.0



SRI LANA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
HEADQUARTERS RESEARCH PLANNIIN6 CELL, O.O.A.
INCREENETAL STAFF AND OPERATING COSTS
Cumulative Man Years by Project Year                    Phased Salaries b Allowances by ProJect Year (Rs.'000)
------_-_______------------------------------------Total 1/Y Cost --   -       -----------------------------
1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   M/Y  (Rs.'000)  1      2    3      4     5     6     7     8     9   Total Cost
A. STAFFING POSITION
Additional Deputy Director (RES) 1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   48.0    48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0   432.0
Agricultural Economist       0.5   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.5   48.0    24.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0   408.0
Technical Officer            1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   35.0    35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0   315.0
Accountant                   0.5   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.5   20.0    10.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0   170.0
Clerk/Typist                 0.5   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.5   16.0        8.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0   136.0
Subtotal            3.5   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0 43.5             125.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0  1461.0
Cumulative Units by Project Year                         Phased Operational Cost by Project Year (Rs.'000)
1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9  Total   UnIt    1       2     3     4     5     6     7     8      9   Total Cost
B. VEHICLES                                                                 Units   Cost
Car                                1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.0   30.0        0.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0   240.0
Van                                1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.0   30.0        0.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0   240.0
Motorcycle                         2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0 16.0   12.0        0.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0   192:0
Subtotal            0.0   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0 32.0               0.0  84.0  84.0  84.0  84.0  84.0  84.0  84.0  84.0   672.0
C. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Office Expenses    15.05                                                           15.05    18.8  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1  25.1   219.6
of Salaries S Allowances
3eminars I Morkshops (No. Years) 0.5   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.5   30.0    15.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0   255.0
Subtotal            0.5   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.5              33.8  5S.1  55.1  55.1  55.1  55.1  55.1  55.1  55.1   474.6
SLMIARY BY PROJECT YEAR (Rs.'O00)
a...SSS .fina.fm.flffll_                          linn_ l
D.O.A. Headquarters            1     2     3     4      5     6     7    8      9     Total     g E
Salaries and Allowances       125.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0 167.0   1461.0      j
Operational Costs              33.8 139.1 139.1 139.1 139'.1 139.1 139.1 139.1 139.1   1146.6 0
Subtotal                 158.8 306.1 306.1 306.1 306.1 306.1 306.1 306.1 306.1   2607.6



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PRWECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
INlCREMENTAL STAFF AND OPERATING COSTS
Cumulative Ibn Years by Project Year                        Phased Salaries & Allowances by Project Year (Rs.'000)
-_--_-----_------_--_-----_---_--- - ----------------Total   /Y Cost--------------------------  ------ -------
1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   NIY (Rs.'000)  I           2     3      4     5      6     7      8     9   Total Cost
A. STAFFING POSITION
Project Manager               1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   45.0           45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0    405.0
ProJect Coordinators          7.0   7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  63.0   40.0    280.0 280.0  280.0 280.0 280.0 280.0 280.0 280.0 280.0   2520.0
Procurement Officer           1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   40.0           40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Civil Engineer                1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   40.0           40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Training Coordinator          1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   40.0           40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Accounts Officer              1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   40.0           40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Statistician                  1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  9.0   40.0           40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0    360.0
Other Sopport Staff           4.0  10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 84.0   20.0    80.0 200.0  200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0   1660.0
Subtotal             17.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 23.0 201.0                605.0 725.0  725.0 72s.0 725.0 725.0 725.0 725.0 725.0   6405.0
Caaulative Units by ProJect Year                            Phsed Operational Cost by ProJect Year (0s.4'000)
1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9 Total                 1      2     3      4     S      6     7      8     9   Total cost
S. VEHICLES                                                                      Units
Car                                  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.0   30.0           0.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0    240.0
am                                   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0 16.0   21.0           0.0  50.0  30.0  50.0  10.0  50.0  90.0 S0.0 S0.0    4L0.
atorcycle                     1.0   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0 17.0   12.0           12.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0    206.0
Subtotal             1.0   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  6.0  S.0  5.0  S.0 41.0                  12.0 106.0  106.0 104.0 106.0 104.0 106.0 104.0 106.0    064.0
C. INER OPMTIS COSTS
1. Office Impeae 20.08     of Salarie S Allowaes                                      20.5   121.0 145.0 145.0 145.0 145.0 145.0 1450 145.0 145.0   11.0
2. bosere  Statio Vehiclo 1erOtes                                                                                       720.0 120.0 1400.0 1400.0 1400.0   60.0
3. Mbintomm    of Civil Vbs                                                                                                    240.0 1429.0 1420.0 1420.0   477.0
SLUM  np       VW        t. Ra.eoo)
Projectbnagmetnit                1     2      3     4      5      6     7      a     9      Tstal
Selarie and Allowances          605.0 725.0 725.0  2.0 7.0 7m.0 725.0 72S.0 725.0   6406.0
Operational Costs               133.0 249.0 249.0 249.0 969.0 1689.0 3128.0 3128.0 3128.0  12922.0
Subtotal                  738.0 974.0  974.0 974.0 1694.0 2414.0 38S3.0 3853.0 3853.0  19327.0



ANNEX 2
Table 12
-67-                                          Page 1
AGICUCLTURL NgE^RC  PROJ=C
Recruitment of StAff bw Year
(Cumulative Nos.)
uear   I TL 2   Year 3   YarA  YearS  Y                  L 7   yEr 8   la"Ll
A. Research Staff
Research Officers            -        12       26         34      34      34       34       34       34
Experimental Officers        -         1         2         2       2        2       2        2        2
Research Assistants          5        38       65         80      80      80       80       80       80
Technicians                  -         8        13        13      13       13      13       13       13
B.  Other Staff
(Reseagrh Stations)
Librarian                    -         2         2         2       2       2        2        2        2
Admin. Officers              -         3         3         3       3        3       3        3.       3
Accountants                  -         6         8         8       8       8        8        8        8
Clerks                       -         9        13        13      13       13      13       13       13
Typists                      -         8        11        14      14       14      14       14       14
C. CARP Staff
Executive Secretary          1         1          1         1       1      1        i        1        1
Senior Scientists            2         4         4          4       4      4        4        4        4
Agric. Economist             1         1          1         1       1       1       1        1        1
Statistical Officer          1         1          1         1       1      1        1        1        1
Information Officer          1         1         1          1       1      1        1        1        1
Res./Admin. Staff            3         8          8         8       8      8        8        8        a
Support Staff                2         5         5          5       5      5        5        5        5
D. P14 Staff
Project Manager              1         1          1         1       1      1        1        1        1
Project Coordinators         7         7          7         7       7      7        7        7        7
Procurement Officer          1         1          1         1       1      1        1        1        1
Civil Engineer               1         1          1         1       1      1        1        1        1
Training Coodinator          1         1          1         1       1      1        1        1        1
Accounts Officer             1         1          1         1       1       1       1        1        1
statistician                 1         1          1         1       1      1        1        1        1
Support Staff                4        10        10         10      10     10       10       10       10



AMuX 2
Table 12
Page 2
Xar I  XL2   Yenr 3   YmarA 4           fi        6  Year 7   Yeer    Year 9
S. headquarter Research
Pl1Mj. Cell - DOA
Additional Deputy
Director (Res.)           1         1         1          1       1      1       1        1        1
Agri. 3cononit              1         1         1           1      1      1       1        1        1
Technical Officer           1         1         1          1      1       1       1        1        1
Accountant                  1         1         1           1      1      1       1        1        1
Clerk/Typist                1         1         1          1      1       1       1        1        1



-69-                         Page 1
8RI LANR
AGRICULTURAL RE8EARCH PROJECT
Schedule of lstimated IDA Disbursements
Us$ Million
IDA Financial
year and                                        Cumulative          Percentage
Semester              Disbursements            ients                of Total
FY 87
2nd                      0.1                     0.1                    0.5
FY 88
lot                      0.4                     0.5
2ad                      0.5                     1.0                    5.4
FY 89
1st                      0.5                     1.5
2nd                      0.5                     2.0                   10.8
L 90
lst                      1.0                     3.0
2nd                      1.0                     4.0                   21.6
FT 91
Ist                      2.0                     6.0
2nd                      1.0                     7.0                   37e8
FYf 92
1lt                      2.0                     9.0
2nd                      1.0                    10.0                   54.0
nil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
PY 93 
1st                      2.0                    12.0
2nd                      1.0                    13.0                   69.9



-70-
AN= 3
Page 2
IDA Financial
year and                                       Cumulative          Percentage
Semester             Disbursement            Disbursemets          of Total
1rY 94
1st                      2.0                    15.0
2nd                      1.0                    16.0                  86.0
FX 95
1st                      1.0                    17.0
2nd                      0.6                    17.6                  94.6
FY 96
1st                      0.5                    18.1
2nd                      0.5                    18.6                 100.0



-71-
Page 1
8RI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
A. Investment on Agricultural Retearch: FY1986
(Rs Million)
Rectarent      Capital
Buditet       Budgtt       Total
I.*   Degartuent of Agriculture
A.  Normal Research Programs
1.  Emoluments and Allowances            41.10              -        41.10
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           7.60              -         7.60
3. Rehabilitation and Improvement
of Capital Assets                      -           5.00         5.00
4. Acquisition of Equipment and
Construction Program                              53.00        53.00
Subtotal                          48.70         58.00        106.70
B. Diversified Agricultural Research
Project (USAID)
1.  Emoluments and Allowances             3.40             -          3.40
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           2.60             -          2.60
3.  Land Improvement and Structures          -          11.70        11.70
4.  Furniture, Vehicles, Equipment
and Tools                                         26.901i      26.90
Subtotal                           6.00         38.60         44.60
TOTAL:  DOA                       54.70          96.60       151.30



-72-
AMNL 4
Page 2
Recurrent      Capital
--Budget      Bud&et       Total
II.   Deuartment of Minor Exnort CroDs
1.  Emoluments and Allowances             2.50              -         2.50
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           0.40              -0.4
2.90             -          2.90
III.  Forest Research
1.  Emoluments and Allowances             0.40              -         0.40
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           0.03              -         0.03
3. Machinery, Equipment, Furniture,
Tools, Implements, etc.                -          0.63          0.63
4.  Land Improvement & Structures            -           5.62         5.62
0.43          6.25          6.68
IV.   Veterinarv Regearch Institute
1.  Emoluments and Allowances             4.15              -         4.15
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           1.05              -         1.05
3.  Civil Works                              -           1.20         1.20
4. Equipment, Vehicles,
Machinery, etc.                        -          0.42          0.42
5.20          1.62         6.82
V.    National Aquatic Resource Atencv
1.  Emoluments and Allowances             4.20              -         4.20
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           4.60              -         4.60
3. Rehabilitation and Improvements
to Buildings                           -          0.50          0.50
4. Other Works, Machinery,
Equipment, Instruments, etc.           -          7.90 7.90
8.80          8.40         17.20
VI.   Coconut Research Institute
1.  Emoluments and Allowances            11.51              -        11.51
2.  Other Operating Expenditure          13.35              -        13.35
3.  Civil Works                              -           3.04         3.04
4.  Equipment, V,hicles and Machinery        -           5.10         5.10
24.86          8.14        33.00



-73-                       A       
Page 3
Recurrent      Capital
udet-         Budget        Total
VII. Tea Research Institute
1.  Emoluments and Allowances              8.98             -          8.98
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           26.19             -         26.19
3. Civil Works, Equipment,
Machinery, etc.                         -         12.53         12.53
35.17         12.53         47.70
VIII. Rubber Research Institute
1.  Emoluments and Allowances              5.99              -         5.99
2.  Other Operating Expenditure           13.53             -         13.53
3. Civil Works, Equipment,
Machinery, etc.                        -           2.56          2.56
19.52          2.56         22.08
TX.   Sufarcane Research Institute
1. Emoluments, Allowances,
and Operating Expenditure           1.00              -          1.00
2. Equipment, Vehicles,
Machinery, etc.                         -          4.00          4.00
1.00          4.00          5.00
TOTAL                               152.58         140.10        292.68



-74-
ANNE 4
Page 4
B. Outline of Research Activities
Detartment of Agriculture
Rice.   Breeding and testing of varieties more adapted to the
identified agroecological regions and other problem areas. Investigations
would continue on rice quality improvement and on alternate sources of plant
nutrients like organic manures and biofertilizers. The ongoing agronomic
trials and work relating to control of pests, diseases and weeds would con-
tinue.
Cron Diversification. Research would concentrate on maize, sor-
ghum, and finger millets; grain legumes (cowpea, green gram and chickpea);
and oilseeds (groundnut, soyabean, sunflower, and castor) adapted to short
rainfall periods and poorly irrigated areas of the Dry Zone. Emphasis would
be on selection and testing of improved varieties, developing suitable
agronomic practices, and production of breeder seed.
Other Crops. PotUto research would concentrate on seed propogation
techniques, agronomic practiees, improved storage of potato, and hybrid seed
production. Under chillies, work would continue on bybridization program,
maintenance of germplasm, ffrtilizer application, and production of breeders
seed. Under onions, seed p:oduction techniques and fertilizer application
would be given importance.
Horticulture. Research on vegetables (bush bean, cabbage, cap-
sicum, tomato, okra, and egg plant) would concentrate on agronomic practices,
pest and disease control, and production of breeders seed.
Water Manatement. Studies will be carried out on irrigation
requirements of rice under different drainage situations.
Minor Ex2ort Crops
1. Varietal, agronomical, and crop protection studies on coffee,
cloves, cocoa, cardamom, nutmeg, pepper, cinnamon, and other minor export
crops.
2. Studies on post-harvest technology and processing of important
minor export crops.
3. Trials on farmers' fields on improved agronomic practices and
high intensity mixed cropping in combination with fruit trees and other
crops.



-75-
ANNE 4
Page 5
Sugarcane
Research programs would include: (a) collection and testing of
improved varieties of sugarcane from other countries; (b) trials on farmers'
fields to test varieties selected for higher yields; and (c) studies on
agronomic practices and fertilizer recomendations.
Forest-Research
Research programs would include: (a) maximizing wood production
through genetic improvement and better management practices; (b) studies on
improved silvicultural practices to improve quality of natural forests and
plantations; (c) studies on agro-forestry; (d) studies on subsidiary forest
species of economic importance; (e) studies on watershed protection; and
(f) strengthening data base.
Veterinary Research
1. Studies on evolving suitable cross-bred dairy animals with
reasonable milk yields while preserving some of the existing desirable traits
like disease resistance and heat tolerance.
2. Animal nutrition studies: (a) nutritional value of
non-conventional feeds; (b) improvement of nitrogen fixation by pasture
legumes under coconut; and (c) forest pasture trials to determine suitable
grain legume mixtures.
3. Animal health studies on accurate methods of diagnosis of
animal and poultry diseases, economic production of better quality vaccines
for prevention of diseases, development of an economic disease control
program, and reproductive disorders.
4. Continuing ongoing animal health research on bacteriology,
parasitology, virology and poultry diseases.
Tea Research
Continuation of ongoing research on agronomy, breeding,
biochemistry and crop protection. In addition, the following work also would
be taken up:
Breeding. Studies on development of improved tea clones including
tissue culture.
Cro_  Protection.  Investigation of virus causing damage to clonal
tea, nematode control, and shot-hole borer control; and weed management.
Sgil and Water Conservation. Studies on simple soil conservation
practices and optimum water use techniques in tea growing areas.



-76-
Page 6
Other Research. Studies on (a) economic evaluation of tea planta-
tions, (b) development and use of renewable sources of energy for tea planta-
tions, (c) improving harvesting practices, (d) post-harvest technology, and
(e) tea processing.
Rubber Research
Ongoing research programs in plant breeding, agronomy, plant
pathology, soils and plant nutrition, rubber chemistry, and intercropping
would continue with emphasis on the following areas: (a) development of new
clones with high yield, vigor and disease resistance; (b) improving planting
material by upgrading the quality of budwood and stock seedlings; (c) studies
into physiological basis of yield and propagation to increase productivity;
(d) studies on soil fertility and on the effect of added fertilizer on yield
and growth; (e) studies on nitrogen fixation by cover crops and the mechanism
of disease resistance to economize on fertilizer and fungicide inputs; and
(f) the use of solar energy for cost-efficient drying of crepe.
Iational Aouatic Research Agency
Inland Fisheries and Aquacultu. Research programs include:
(a) cage and pond culture experiments; (b) bionomics of mud crab fishery;
(c) determination of feed ratios for selected species of prawns; (d) assess-
ment of culturable fingerlings in bushpile samples and their feeding ecology;
and (e) and aquaculture studies in disused coral pits.
Marine Biologa.  Research programs include:  (a) survey of pelagic
fisheries; (b) monitoring prawn fishery; (c) investigation of the status of
fishery and population dynamics of lobster resources; (d) study of Penaeid
prawns and tuna fishery.
Engineerina and Technolog. Studies would include:
(a) cataloguing fishing gear used in Sri Lanka; *nd (b) evaluation of perfor-
mance of new fishery craft and fish aggregating devices.
Post-Harvest Technolog.  Studies would include:  (a) quality study
of fish obtained from local market, small pelagic fish and pond cultured
prawns; (b) quality improvement of Maldive fish; and (c) storage studies.
Other Research Areas. These include: (a) sea bed surveys by the
Oceanography unit; (b) study on effects of tourist industry in the coral
reefs of Hikkaduva; and (c) preparation of data base on aquatic resources.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIALICAtENDAR YEAR       1986        497         1988       11989       '990        1994   |     992        1993        1994       4995        4996
PROJECT YEAR                      PYt         PY2         PY3        PY4         PY5         PY6         PY7         PYS         PY9
QUARTER   1 23 34 1  23  t41 2  3 41 2  3 4 _  2  3 4  t 2  3 41    2 3 1 4 | 1 2 1 3 41 4    21 31 4 1    21 3 141   2  3 4
I COUNCtL OF AGICICUWLTRAI. RESEARCH POLICY
Estcabised and stafIfed
II PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
PCC Form~ed
111 PROJECT MtANAGEMENT UNIT
EstabUshed
Proect Managers and Core Staff Appointed
FiLm of Archtects/EnOeers Appointed     _
Wod9 Bnk-304531:



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIAUCALENDAR YEAR      198           19S7   |     9St        19S9   |     990   | 199t   |   1W    |                      "94  1|   t       |     996
PROJECT YEAR                      PYI         PY2         PY3         PY4         PYS         PY6         PY7         m           PV9
QUARTER  1|2|3|4|1 2 34 1 2 34   2 344 2|3|4|, 2|3|4|1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4  2 3 4 4 2 3 4 1234
A v  Cw :osof   d torZPplans CA      all
Clioi Wafti Location
Refine Schematic Desigs and Estimates
tor alt Buidings ond Office Focilitis_
Complete Prequabicatins otf Contractors                                    1
Woald Bxnmk-30613:2
I.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PtNANCIALCALENDAR YEAR       1986    |   97   |       M t   |    989   |         19    |                       4      | tW4   | L995   |          996 t  |
PROJEC YtAR                      PYi         PY2         PY3        PY4         PYS        PY6         PY7         PYs           _         _
QUARTER   _ 2 3         423  4  1            _  2  34 I     2 3 4 1          2 3 4     1 2 23412342 3 41    2 23412 4      23     2
Prepration of Bid Documents _
I~~~~~~~~~~~ IsIf                                                                                                                                                         '0  X;Ni1       
TransmitBidcumet1                                       I I  I      1                           I I I  I                              , 
issue invitfolion to Bids                                   E       l         I    lE          U
Opening of Bt8NN                                                               IUE    I E              
Evoluatton ofBtds and Send Recommend0lionis                            ..**.                ..       .    ..
to IDA fot Review and Approval
Aw-ard Contract                                                      IIII E E                 EE         EE
Contuction                                                        mm                                                                            - * *   r  u   n m mi  ------
World ank- -30513 3



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIAUCALENDAR YR        4986       1967   |    98   I    969          4 9        199t        9         1993  4|994   I    199S            196
PROJECT YEAR                    PYI        PY2         PY3        PY4        PYS        PY6        PY7         PY8        PY9
QUARTER   _1213 41_  2 31414  2 3 4 1  2 3 4 _'2   3 4  1  2 31 4                  2 3 44  2  3 4  1 2  3 41  2  3 4  i 2 3  4
V. EQUIPMENT
Compete Preparation of SpecMcatons ond
Bid Documentsumm
Send to IDA for Appavoal               E:                       * * Z         *
Issulnvfatlonto Bid                                           E         E     
Opening and Evalutlon of Bids                                   oI   i MElE         EU
Serd Evoluation Repor and recommen-               I                   * I I I I
dkfotin to IDA
Award Contract                                                        H B E 
VI TRAININ
Decide on Taining Coures and Send Manpower               314_c|
Development Plan to IDA                                            41                     461                   4           i            
Implemfievt Training Program                        11                     I                               I I I I I  I       EEl                                              1
World Bonk-30513:4



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementoffon Schedule
F#NANCAUCANDA YEAR            |       1     7j                          I 9j        I  198 |               t I     1i    I    19 4 I     1m  |        %
PRU|  WM                                     m            rP3PY4             P Y             PY6       M7          m      m P_9
QUARER  I2314 I23 4 213 4 '112 131414 2213344   2 31  2                                    134123414 2 3 41 2 3 4 12 3 4
Vii. TECHNiCAl ASSISTANCE
Expaatte Consulamnts
TOfRs Finalized
Shot Ust PRoposed
Final Selecin
CoI,trOot ~~~~~~~~                             3~Ornim      I8nk                                                                                                    It"rn
in Position                                                              IIli
15rn/rn  l5nm  lSrnVrn         rnIr luiVn 
Local Consultants                                                      *                    m...i                             1
VWIl RESEARCH STATION STAFFING                                            15          5                                   29         129                                42_
Rosearch Stcnt Posltion                                                         2           3 iE40 E E 31EEjEEEEEIEEEEE*        E          40 PE EE   I
Support Staff In PosHlion aIIzsm_     -._-
IX. RESEARCH PL.ANNING
Draft Notoa Agricuttural Research Pbn Prepared
Fil Naionl AWrIultal Research Plan Prepored
Stotus Review Repoft Repared                          _                                                       _ 
Wodd Bank-30513.5     tu



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIALICALENDAR YEAR        1986   |                2sL7   |                             MI          4992        199 199t   |   19                    4996
PROJECT YEAR                       PYi         PY2         PY3         PY4         PYS         PY6          PY7         PY8         PY9        PY10
QUARTER   4 2 3 4 1 2 3 4_ 2 3 4 1 2   41 2 3 4i 2                                  11 4   2  234 23            2 3 4 42 3 4 4 2 34
Evaluation o' Results of Previous Years ond           -                       . -  -                                                  - r 
Drearotion of Anrnuol Plon
At ResearCh Station Level
Al Department Level5
CARP Review of Plans Ond Sending Recommen-                                                                    a D                       ml
dations to Financel wt CopV to IDA tor Review
Budge and Planning Division Review and
COMMUnication of Results to °VA



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIALiCALENDAR YEAR  | 1986   |   t987           4 98eG      4 s9   1    °      |   1991   |    1992   |    M93   |    994   1   15            t9%
PROJECT YEAR                      PYI        PY2         PY3        PY4         PYS         PY6         PY?         PY8
QUARTER   112  3 4 112  3          4 234 12 4   2 34 1          2 3  4141213 4        123 4  1 12 3 442 1314  112 3 4423  4
x  HEADQUARTER RESEARCH PLANNING CELL DOA                                                                                                                   i
Established and Fully Staffed                                                               I
Xi PESEARCH-E)(rENSION LNKAGES
Formation of Diagnostic Teams tor Penoditc
Fild Vsits and Coordtnaolon of Adaptive 
Researcr,
Complete Review of Extension Requtrernents       3
in Agr1culture                          - -                                                                                       I I  I I I I      I I
Woild Bank-30513:7        Ut



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
RNANOAUCALEDAR WMR          *9        |                                I    M| O   |   1W     |   1I |99    ,9,
-iC- YEAR                .          .       PY2         PV3        PY4             .          .      P .             . 
QUA    121314 1341 23 4    341 2 3 4 1 2_ 4 _  2                                                                       3 4 1 .23423 4
XIl. ANNUAL RESEARrHO REPORTS
CARP Decision on Report Formot
Researc kislttllons fPcreae Report
CARP PrePares Annual Report and Sends to IDA
X10I MOMtIORING AND EVALUATION
(a) 2eseorch ftnuls) Reports to PHVi
- Send Annul Work Pograms for Chi Woks 
Construction Equpment and Trdrning
(1st FotlowIng year]
- Otettv Pogress Report on Physl2o|
Achievement Durng the Year                                                                                       | a I    I  | 3  |
(bI PMU Reports to ODA
- Annual Work Program (Corsoidated)I 
- Quartert RrogressReports                                      331                      
- Ad Reports 
j        ) MideReviws byOSIADA                       - --- - - I                                         - I I I  I .1  111                                                  L I
Wodd Biw*-i   643:8



-85-                        ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Material Available in the Project File
1.   Guidelines for Preparation of Status Review Reports
2.   Guidelines for Preparation and Approval of Research Proposals
3.   Guidelines for Carrying Out Adaptive Research Trials
4.   Terms of Reference of Expatriate Consultants
5.   Format for Quarterly Progress Reports
6.   List of Laboratory Equipment
7. Library Development
8. Manpower Development
9.   Incremental Research Station Staff
10. Incremental Research Station Staff Costs
Related Documents
National Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Strategy - A Change in Perspective
National Agriculture, Food and Nutrition - A Session on Policy Issues
The Agricultural Research System in Sri Lanka - ISNAR/GOSL
Sri Lanka - Agricultural Research Project - GOSL
Research in Major and Minor Industrial and Export Crops
Expert Report on Spices Research and Development in Sri Lanka
Research and Experimentation on Minor Export Crops
Aspects of a National Agricultural Research Plan within Development by
Mr. R. Adelhelm, GTZ.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYSTEM
- - - -   - - -L-- - --- -- - - -
L           i                     F                        -   Wl3I  
in  W4vsin
Etl3E3g3 m                  , E3 ! S3 ilL33m                                                    e
F -i                    O   A6 ,   .
'4"'              au~~~~o  m a*Tes m
_                             W to__                  . .                                               I
__._....________.__._                                     U   d
. t - -  -   -   -  ,~~~~~l  I  C,  ,omk
- _
mm
WOftW BANK 3043gA



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTR't OF
AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
& RESEARCH
DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE
DIRECTOR
FARMS &
EXTENSION          TRAINING           PLANTING           RESEARCH          ECONOMICS          ENGINEERING       ADMINISTRATIVE       FINANCIAL
ODV15'0N           DIVISION            ATERIAL           DIV1S5ONNVSO                          DIVISION           DIVISION           DIVISION
DIVISION
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR
9 RECIONAL     CENTRAL            LANDO&               SOIL          HEAD QUARtERS
RESEARCH             RICE            WATER UECONSERVATION                  tECNNICAL &
CENTRES           BREEDING            LIIVISI ONDIVISION                 ADMINISTRATIVE
STATION                                                  STAFF
RESEARCH   ||14 RESEARCH 
24 ADAPTIVE            IO
WORLD BANK 304398



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE RESEARCH DIVISION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
DOURITUWT OF
AORICUUUIRF
OtnAtCNr ml                                              KARU              MAKAW              CAII              somAI            ANAW              SAMOAA                               O1KOTT
AORICULTURAL                          TIE,KVKLY                            KALMTtA                                                                   ONENAAL&
CSFCA*Cm              _             P*AAANMTAN                            VAANATNA-         PUFSSFLL-          OtHT07A           ASMALAN-  IISIL.                        _               RALAN-
STATIONS                            HURUttNAN                              VILLU              AWA             LASUDUWA             tOTA     |      ASIA-OLA                              SAILA
OA^PTIV          POtONNA-           VAVUY             BATTICOLOA          WtALPfTA         Ku|  A"AL"         HONASAMA                           NUJWRA-LIY|
NESEARCtt           RUtUWA          HULLAtVU           KANTALAI          WARtAPOL            NATAL     I        ALUTAVA         ANSALA7O    1        AOIII.L   I
lITS           ALOUNADIA-           MANNAN           NAUSATTA           TASONA   |          AGOLUA          LASUOUNA           TCJIAILA   i       OH0ACLA
prA            KIIIIOCHCHI                                                                                                    NASIANOOLA                                                   I
WORLD BANK 30439C



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PROPOSED RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
COUNCIL                              MINISTRY OF                                                                       OTHER
AGRICULTURAL                           AGRICULTURAL                                                                    CONCERNED
RESEARCH                             DEVELOPMENT                 MINISTRIES
POLICY                               & RESEARCH                                                               [
I-_                                                                                          f      PROJECT
tI -_COORDINATION
t  ~~~~    _ _                                        r---------_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMrrTEE
;~~~~~~~~~~~ --                                                                          __.___I
MADR RESEARCH:                            PROJECT                       .
AGRICULTURE                            MANAGEMENT                                 J       
MINOR EXPORT CROPS                            UNIT
L _ _ _                            SUGARCANE                                 UNI
~_ _                                                                  I                         -
OTHER RESEARCH
I NSTITUTIONS 
|VETEINARY-VRIi
|fISHERIES-NARA|
|fOREST -fR 
COCONUT -CRI|
|TEA -TRI        .
RUBBER - RRI
| UNIVfRSITES                       - WO



NOTES



IBRD 19616
:    SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EXISTING RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS
r  DOA REGIONAL REOEARCH
-~~'-*- S -~~              CENTeRS
OMINOR EXPORT CROPS
J A F F NA                                    RESEARCH INSTITUTE
KdlirochchiE       N\                     0  SUGARCANE RESEARWCH INSTITUTf
f       k.\;                  +  ~~~~~~~~~IJVESTOCK RESEARtCH INSTItUTE
*-r   MULLAITIVU                                   A COCONUT RESEARCH INSTITUtE
b    \          _ >/<>        &n.               *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
A' N jTO R  j H   F iA.N     W           RUBBER RESfARCH INSTITUTE
A  fORf LT RESEARCH           9
VAVUNIYA
IANNAR >4. NAV INONAL AQUATIC RESOURCES
MANNAR         9       <~    ~>.                        ENCY
j         2              U 111 UNIVERSITY OF PERADENIYA
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
j/                   (.                   -  - ~ ~ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
'-..1                                                      -. i   t ~   ''  t .i-e-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
!  N  OR  r   S >  ;   - -- INTERNATIONAL
N rTH                    I                         OUNIDARV
ANURADHAPURA             (TRINCOMALEE
District Boundarire am te
used in 1981 census.
C Le N rTRAA                        t
Maha Illuppollamo   (
1A[AM                              >     POLONNARUWA
r~~~~
NP  f 7'T H              >-.                             BATTICALOA .. 
KURUNEGALA                        -Jn
wf s rE,RN                MATALE                  EASTERN
OMotole Vo
*               Ji       --'..iGirnandurukotte
Cl
t     \0V(KANDY DY                      i
{.A. I     \Gonnoruwa  r
KEGALLA<  -           /           U     V   A         AMPARAI'-.
\*t) r   , BADULLAI
I-)_ /, '-                                          / f 
" f6$ t   / W         NUWARA":/                        
, \   / >  g ,¢ ,ELIYA   ' Bandorawelo
MONERAGALA
! AI AARA   s   RATNAPURA
*Udo Wolawe
S s  >'~s_....... tj,;K.   S'
C.ALLE                        - 1--HAMBANTOTA   -
A    u!apelessa 13 ,   N                        INDIA
MATARA: -
oHZ,#X=~~~~ L ° WAs
Y 19A8KA
MAY 19S6



IBRD 19617
SRI LANKA
/             Tinnovefr             AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
/          I            .  ' -                   DOA RESEARCH STATIONS
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
J AF FNA                                    0   RESEARCH STATIONS
Kilmachch. °  /                                    RESEARCH STATIONS AND
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
\.*.,r    MU LLAITIVU    Muliai1, u                   °ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
|   *    j  _ -    - *_              t @   NATIONAL CAPITAL
jN O   R  1TH fR      R  N                   -  -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
L- .<, VAVUNIYA                              .. -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
MANNAR         J                                  -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
')  r -H  /          mDislrkt Boridories are those
Murunknrr /      Vavunryo                                  u sed in 1981 census
0
I                                     N'N  O  R  T H
ANURADHAPURA             / TRINCOMALEE
OAnuradhapvro           j 'D Kantolai
K*piti9-O   _.              C  F N    OIR A  I           )t 
oVanothivillI-..             E  N  T    A
PUTTALAM                              Ii
0  Tabbowa   j        .                  POLONNARUWA
1. j   \   g   V      ° Polonraru.a
P             ~~/   vi
N  0/AR TH                           j  Arolaganoldo B0ATTICALOA
KURUNEGALA    I            j      _             \
?                                          ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Kolarodo
elj          oWaolyopola  \                I /                 Aru
WESTERN                   MATALEE                 EA S f!ER N
' OMatole         \./   i
X~~~~~~'  (N.>   ,                           .. f   j i,   ,-    'v,
\.           ~~~v
0rmngfo  \1 CE.N T RA1 Z                                 MoI-o*1a
*--1 0Wapi 'S'- G   W aoloI  KAN D Y         *osolaka                       o
GAMPAHA  |                            .b -le
j      t.E       Pussellaw~a  i        /Q   0 Bibile    .
7 KEGALLA  -   0        7    (    U                     AMPARAI
I-  ~~~~~~~.                           'I~~~~~~ V-                    7.
r        Co -               i           J    N               B j BADULLA               ?               7 
*     "       A l on  _) jSrio Eliyoa) /.       J       1
COL.OMBO    \            NUWARA`..                 r
-' 0HOma9OnmO\.,.H;..sj YELIYA   sI   Bqado;a'ela      e I       i
" ,,                            ,         -. ~ -    ,,MONERAGALA
KAU         O Pelmodvllo    "   (
Kolutaro o  LUxTARA   >   RATNAPURA             '.
7-".
somoto 0                                             N. k.
GALLE    ~)                   '- '(\2y HAMBANTOTA
GALLE       (-H     ER   NINDI
Lobudura    M        ' A Ambolonot                             INDIA
O to   20   30 MILES          ff    aao %r        
r  . . , -- MMofara                 5'.                              0'
6  tO  20  30  40  S0 KILOMEtEOS                                     ,
'ANKA
_ ...... ..                                                      _ ___  ........... . _ ____M _986
MAY 1 986



SRI L
81        ~~PAKISTAN/         L        CHINA_____
80                      I    ~               ~          ~           ~~                AGRORO - ECOLOGICA
(/                                 Agro-Ecological Region Bound-rtes                                        PI_ AGRO - ECOtOGICAL
/  a  s k   <   _       o N\      ---District  Boundaries                  _JCn r                                       REGION   &   SYMBOL
/      11  -9c5t                           - - *-Internationol Boundories       -.-                              (
,4   %     %          \                                                  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N D I A
Wu, Ll
2
0
"WU
4<o~~~~~~~~~ ~~SRI LANKA_ _ _ _
0  z
l
WM2LI
WM3fI
o     to    20    3.0   4I0
MILES
0   10  20  30  40  50  60                  WLI
kLO8-  e-  rERC s'                  WI2.I
2        L
N
iii
zi
0
LU           Ml
IL)0
Ibi 1M2 E
q,                    Z~~~~~      113
DLI
LU
02
DL3&4 LE~
D LL5
Land and Water Use Division,                                                                                    6 - 
D00-trent of Agriculture
Peraden,ya



ARI LANKA
'LOGICAL  REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 14076F
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
MONTHLYH1-ISTOGRAMS 775% EXPECTANCY' 
PGICAL                    OF 75%                        VALUE Of                                                                            MA5O%SOEXPECTANCERAI
MBOL              RAINFALL PROBABILITY                  ANNUAL                                OF DRYNESSMAO SILG                                                 UPTER N
FOR RESPECTIVE  REGIONS              RAINFALL(is                     FOR PARTICULAR MONTHS
JAN   18   ~MAR   M~AYJUN  ~JUl. AUG  S,p
> 125               AJ.                                     .     .       RW Yn,.o*, Pw.,,.,. 1..I t-d   Cor.. Re,w,       M.n.n        mst-ply  oet
A
11 1>  75                                      .     .     .     .        Red y'e,., ptot,ie tot  on.Wly tJ                M,'..:.  tcn
0                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Red YVeil.. PodroIlo tore v.01h Pee,--t: Al ht'wn  Rol.n
16
>125                J.,,fFtet Vt':pa., -nO                                                    1, CI ted Red Vt,.e Pole.    tttZO   4.-11t.>     Vit 1,
0 IZ                                                              ~LOI4e t-d Red Y,'hePd e:: '
0                         ~ ~           ~~>10S..LdV.- 6, i,, neeldiV, CCiot Pad                                                   Yi,,-.CC ,',   n,t
....... .   12.                                                                                                                                       e V~  .t l e ,,
>   75  J  F                                            RM Y,,1-~~~~~~~~~~to   Pii.n ,,,otat lt-on Cr,,  I,  t:(t -Rj  e>,,ie
V- Wit        -,PW"
4                 3                                                     LIltalo                                         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~414
>                                                        0,A.                  I      V, -Re.er.cnP,,u.,tIivr..1..,             .        -."~idt~
>---A-V.                                                                                      t,.3 't O
12
>  55                     I-      O    MvAy.  J.n   A.,  A,jN,            Riit,-., P- e:.te t   t'ni t. pt-_Ctj.       ~    ,¶;   ti~ i-.t,
121
~~  :1,,1---1...~~~~~~~~-~7~             >     45            J,                   *    J-:  J,i   A,    SIp        Rtn-0i.tP,   LatCt-n-i,'P,                       R
>35            C     OP   PAt'.  Ii~~~~~J,- J1.1  A,,,S,      i.n".l,.',..acV-.. U'-e"'' LoUt                                    eto~
.05  *  J~~~~~~J  00.1  '.Sep    ~         .         t11   11   It  , I
RtcI d N. .,,j
435                3            .tC,,t'                          ~  Ste  R--, I'.- P    t  t
___-  --.----->3 -±- ._-_A_
Z:>30                                  My.S 6,  h-   J-.,  A,4  .S,,p     nw, h"'UA           L'niaS.     t,,1                  '3  i
MAM   JASOI4f'                                                                                    5,' 't5.-et. Aq bl~A
0                                                                                                               Aqp.~~~~---  ___
>23                                J~~~~~~~lptai.  ot- Jeo  tttt.ttS.,tptM..-  - Ct, N~                                IS
o                                                                       DL,4 RtI!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;.'  Ci0
MD   >      20           J.,    F      m      U,   J-   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A.*te1'ie



