Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16676
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1776-CE)
June 11, 1997
South Asia
Country Department I
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (Rs)
SAR (March 1987) Rs. 27.40 = US$1.00
Completion Year (December 1996) Rs. 57.00 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP           - Agricultural Research Project
CADMAR        - Compositie Approach to Decision Making in Agricultural Research
CARP          - Council for Agricultural Research Policy
CRI           - Coconut Research Institute
DOA           - Department of Agriculture
FRG           - Federal Republic of Germany
FCRDI         - Field Crops Research Development Institute
GOSL          - Government of Sri Lanka
GTZ           - Agency for Development of the Federal Republic of Germany
HORDI         - Horticultural Research Development Institute
IDA           - International Development Association
INFORM        - Information System for Agricultural Research Managers
ISNAR         - International Service for National Agricultural Research
MAFL          - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Lands
MOFP          - Ministry of Finance and Planning
NARA          - National Aquatic Resources Agency
NARP          - National Agricultural Research Plan
NARS          - National Agricultural Research System
PCC           - Project Coordination Committee
PGIA          - Postgraduate Institute of Agriculture
PMU           - Project Management Unit
RRDI          - Rice Research Development Institute
RRI           - Rubber Research Institute
RTWG          - Regional Technical Working Group
SAR           - Staff Appraisal Report
SRI           - Sugarcane Research Institute
SRR           - Status Review Reports
TRI           - Tea Research Institute
VRI           - Veterinary Research Institute
WB            - World Bank
Vice President             Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director            Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief/Manager     Ridwan Ali
Staff Member               Ivar Serejski



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CR. 1776-CE)
Table of Contents
Preface.i
Evaluation Summary..ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT    .                           .
A. StatementEvaluation of Objectives .I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .2
C. Major Factors Affectin the Project                            .8
D. Project Sustainabilitv.8
E. Bank Performance.8
F. Borrower Performance .9
G. Assessment of Outcome.9
H. Future Development.10
1. Lessons Learned.10
PART 11:   STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I     Summary of Assessments
Table 2     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3     Project Timetable
Table 4     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
T'able 5    K±ev Indicators for Project Implementation
T able (6    K:e lrd;icators for Project Operat.ons
Table:    Scudies In.luded in Project
Table SAN   Project Costs
Table SB    Project Financing
Table 9     Economic Costs and Benefits
Tab;e 10    Status of Legal Covenants
Table I11    Compliance with Operational Mlanual Statements
Table 12    Bank Resources: StafflInputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.          A Brief Review of'the Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP)
B.          Index of Agricultural Production (1984-1994)
C .         A ide Mlemoire
D.          Government's Contribution to the ICR
E.          GTZ's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1776-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research Project in Sri Lanka for
which Cr. 1776-CE in the amount of SDR15.40 million (US$ 18.60 million) was approved on February 25, 1986 and
made effective on April 21, 1986. The IDA Credit was closed on December 31, 1996. A total of SDR2.67 million (US$
3.70 million) was canceled in November 1995. The Credit was not fully disbursed at completion, with SDR446,569
(US$ 618.000) remaining unspent which will be canceled effective May 15, 1997 which is the final date of payment
under the Credit. A further amount of SDR 63,100 (US$87,240) remaining unused in the Special Account will be
refunded to the Credit and canceled. Co-financing for the project was provided by GTZ which initially provided a
grant of US$ 0.8 million equivalent for technical assistance, and which provided two subsequent grants raising the total
to US$ 3.2 million equivalent.
The ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO World Bank Cooperative Program  which visited Sri
Lanka from 7-23 October, 1996 with revisions by staff of the Agricultural and Natural Resources Operations Division
of Country Department 1, South Asia Region. It is based on material in the project files, field investigations and
discussions with staff of the World Bank, Council of Agricultural Research Policy, Project Management Unit,
Departments of Government and research institutes and regional centers who were associated with the project.
Representatives of the above agencies contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting all data required,
arranging field visits and meetings with research staff concerned with the project. Additional information was obtained
from comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. The Government's evaluation of the project is attached as Appendix
D. GTZ's Status Report is attached as Appendix E.
Drs. D. A. Ivory (Mission Leader) and M. J. Potts (Research Management Specialist, Consultant).






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1776-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.     The project responded to a request from the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to the International
Development Association (IDA) to provide assistance to strengthen the National Agricultural Research System
(NARS) and establish a Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) to ensure coordination among research
institutes and advise Government on agricultural research strategy, planning, priorities and funding.
Project Objectives
2.     The general goal of the Agricultural Research Project (ARP) was to raise farmer incomes by increasing
agricultural production through the development of improved varieties and husbandry practices and farming
systems. The principal elements of the project were: (i) establishment of the CARP; (ii) provision of infrastructure,
equipment, machinery and vehicles and library development at research institutions; (iii) staff development and
technical assistance; (iv) introduction of a contract research program; (v) establishment of a research planning cell
and project management unit; (vi) provision for incremental staff and operating costs; (vii) introduction of research
planning and evaluation procedures; and (viii) improvement of research-extension linkages.
Implementation and Results
3.     Achievement of objectives. Overall the project has had a partially satisfactory outcome in institutional
development of the NARS, including the establishment of the CARP, which has resulted in a substantial upgrading
of staff qualifications and experience, physical facilities and equipment and a gradual reorientation and refocusing
of research on needs-based research thrusts. The project did not yet achieve any substantial, widespread influence
on raising agricultural production and rural incomes. However, due to the long-term nature of research, it is
unlikely that a specific research project will result in a significant change in these broad measures during its
implementation period'. Indirect evidence suggests that some specific farmers problems have been addressed and
productivity increased.
4.     Functioning of CARP. CARP has had considerable difficulty covering its wide mandate due to systemic
weaknesses in its staffing, composition, status and functional autonomy. First, the credibility of CARP as the lead
institution was seriously undermined by its staffing which never had sufficient prestige to influence other
independent institutions. Second, CARP's composition, being made up largely of official representatives of
government bodies, has encouraged a general adherence to the statu quo. Third, CARP's placement under the
perview of one of the ministries does not give it the status nor sufficient authority to influence inter-ministerial
decisions, nor even. those in the ministry to which it is attached. Finally, CARP has been charged with research
planning and coordination without control over funds. This typically leads to failure of a council such as CARP to
OED. Achievements and Problems in Development of National Agricultural Research Systems. June 1996.



iii
undertake its responsibility of directing research policy and influencing the research agenda   One of its most
important early priorities was to develop a National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP) to provide the basis for
nationial policy, planning and resource allocation in agricultural research in Sri Lanka. CARP has only produced a
draft NARP after protracted delays in 1996 and has not seriously influenced research focus and allocation of
resources within the NARS. The major achievements of CARP have been (i) to develop and promote two
management tools (CADMAR - Composite Approach to Decision Making in Agricultural Research and INFORM -
linformationi System for Agricultural Research Managers) to assist research organizations in priority setting and
planning and (ii) to inaugurate a system of contract research. CARP also successfully initiated an ongoing program
of external review of agricultural research institutes and has improved scientific information exchange with
institutes through the establishment of improved library resource and information exchange services. There are,
however, a number of institutional and functional issues that have to be resolved for CARP to fulfil its proper role and
mandate as an apex body in the NARS of Sri Lanka.
5.      Development of facilities. Some 201 new facilities (offices, laboratories, libraries, houses) and 188
ancillary services and farm structures were installed/constructed and 62 facilities were renovated under the project.
All facilities have been completed with the exception of six minor items under force account and are of good
quality. Library services need developing further through the establishment of a nationwide communications
network.
6.     .Staffing and human resource development. An additional 129 research officers and technical staff and 40
essential support staff positions were created under the project. Staff trained to MSc or PhD level far exceeded the
numbers originally proposed, with 136 and 36, respectively, being trained. Short-term  training was similarly
expanded with a total of 109 awards. Significant improvements have been achieved in research staff capability due
to the extensive training program and more balanced research teams have resulted
7.      Contract research.  The development of the contract research program  was delayed and a rigorous
selection of research contracts was not initially applied. Later in the project, the management, monitoring and
evaluation of this program was improved. The program has begun to foster inter-institutional research but has not to
any great extent mobilized the under-utilized resources of the universities or promoted joint research with the
private sector.
8.      Resvearch-extension linkages. Improved research-extension linkages was a project objective. Linkages
were to be improved through use of Status Review Reports (SRRs), which were late being completed; economic
studies on the viability of technologies, input use, constraint analysis, and research program design, which were not
carried out due to a lack of agricultural economists; and systematic development of adaptive research work which
was done in a limited way. There are, however, a number of formal and informal mechanisms in place to promote
information exchange between research and extension. In spite of this, linkages are generally poor and should be
strengthened by, inter alia, joint operation of on-farm adaptive research, and joint formulation of technological
recommendationis.
9.      Research planning, management and evaluation. Research planning is usually done by the institutes with
their owIn mandate in mind. For those institutes that have used CADMAR, research planning has been considerably
improved. While all institutes used INFORM to a variable extent to input data on research programs, budget and
human resources, it has been poorly utilized at both the national and institute level to analyze and improve the
allocation of human, capital and financial resources according to perceived priorities.
2   ESDAR. Strategic Issues for Agricultural Research Policy to 2000 and Beyond. Draft. November 1996



iv
10.    Technical assistance. The technical assistance (TA) under GTZ (Agency for Development of the Federal
Republic of Germany [FRG] was directed to CARP and the research institutes. Support was provided to the
development of INFORM  and CADMAR and to the production of the NARP. Support was also provided to
undertake the external reviews of research institutions and to develop an Agricultural Database System. The
assistance provided by the FRG will continue till October 1998 to, inter alia, consolidate the use of CADMAR,
complete the external reviews, and further develop the Agricultural Database system.
II.    Research performance. Most facilities and human resources training have only recently been completed,
thus no impact on research performance can yet be measured. However, it is apparent that there is a significant
improvement in research skills and quality of research. In many institutes, except the research institutes/regional
centers of the Department of Agriculture, a significant reorientation towards multi-disciplinary research thrusts
based on industry needs rather than the previous focus on compartmentalized, disciplinary research, has occurred as
a result of CADMAR planning.
12.    Project sustainability. In the short-term, it seems likely that the GOSL will be able to maintain project
achievements. In the medium and longer-term, however, project sustainability is uncertain. Sustainability will
depend on the williigness of the Government to, inter alia, (i) liberalize the agricultural policy framework and
ensure that regulatory environments are favorable for private-sector research and technology acquisition; (ii)
rationalize existing resources; (iii) promote cost-recovery systems: and (iv) provide adequate performance
incenitives for staff, the most critical being sufficient operational funding and appropriate criteria and opportunities
for advancement in a research institution. All these factors are currently uncertain.
13.    Project costs, financing arrangements and implementation timetables. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR
15.40 million (US$18.60 million), SDR 12.28 million (US$17.37 million) had been disbursed to the GOSL at
completion.  SDR 2.67 million (US$3.70million) was canceled in November 1995 for the following reasons:
underspending of contract research and of incremental staff costs. The undisbursed balance of SDR 446,569
(US$618,000) will be canceled effective May 15, 1997 which is the final date of payment made under the Credit. A
further amount of US$87,240 (SDR 63,100) remaining unused in the Special Account will be refunded to the Credit
and canceled. This will result in the total disbursed amount decreasing by SDR 63,100 and the canceled amount
increasing by the same amount. Cofinancing for the project was provided by GTZ. which initially provided a grant
of US$0.8million for technical assistance, and which provided two subsequent grants, raising the total to
US$3.2million equivalent. Total project cost at completion was Rs.1.009.4 million, which is 38% above the original
estimated project cost of Rs727.21 million (US$26.55 million), due to a 104% devaluation of the Rupee against the
Dollar, but is 37% below the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms.
14.    Key factors affecting achievement of major objectives. The most important factors that have limited
project success has been: (i) inadequate policy environment for operating a demand-driven research system with
(reater accountability to the end users; (ii) insufficient encouragement, support and commitment to the principle of
a national policy and coordinating body (CARP) for agricultural research; (iii) weak institutional autonomy of the
CARP and within the NARS ; and (iv) the inability of CARP to finalize a NARP and thus provide a long-term
vision of the future evolution of the research system. However, the emphasis given to human resource development,
and provision of key facilities, equipment and incremental staff, has greatly improved research capacity. This has
resulted in the establishment of a highly-trained cadre operating within mostly well-equipped research institutes and
there is a gtrowing orientation to needs based, multi-disciplinary research. However, in many institutions that have
not used CADMAR, there is still a lack of prioritization of research and research programs continue to be
disciplinary based. The use of contract research is now beginning to forge inter-institute collaboration.



v
15.    Project outcome. The project is assessed as partially successful. Significant improvements in institutional
research capacity have been achieved. There has been a slow orientation of research programming to needs-based
research. The project did not yet achieve any substantial, widespread influence on raising agricultural production
and rural incomes. Due to the long-term nature of research, however, it is unlikely that a specific research project
will result in a significant change in these broad measures during its implementation period. In spite of this, indirect
evidence suggests that some specific farmers problems have been addressed and productivity increased.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
16.    Important findings. The development of research capacity of the institutes in the NARS of Sri Lanka has
been uneven and fragmented. The absence of a national research policy and of a long-term vision for future has
been a major factor affecting the overall performance. The expectation that the CARP would assume leadership of
and credibility among the institutions of the NARS without dynamic and respected leaders and an inbuilt dependency
of the institutions on the CARP and without control of the funds was misplaced. CARP would require fundamental
changes to overcome inherent institutional and functional weaknesses in order to evolve into an institution of utility
and importance. CARP should also have some control over budget allocation within the NARS. The NARP, despite
the range of details on the research system. lacks a vision for the future development of the whole research system.
Such a vision should, inter alia, outline the changing demands for technology, the expected roles of the public and
private sectors, and the role of the universities. The vision should also analyse future scenarios for funding research and
identify needed changes in the public research sector to promote greater efficiency. The value of CADMAR and
INFORM have been clearly demonstrated, but these management tools were not utilized by all institutes. Further
technical assistance support would be required to ensure the sustainability of these tools. The contract research
program has been partially successful. However, it provides an essential means for sponsoring inter-institutional
research, mobilizing the greatly under-utilized research resources of the universities, promoting joint research with
the private sector and encouraging strategic and upstream research in key areas and should be continued
17.    Plans for future project operations and sustainability. The GOSL has not yet provided plans for future
project operations. The initiatives and support given by the project to strengthening the NARS appear sustainable in
the short-term. In the longer-term, however, project sustainability is uncertain.
1 8.    Lessons for future projects. The main lessons learned from the project are as follows: (a) A vision
statement of the future evolution of the research system should be a precondition for Bank support to a new lending
program for agricultural research; (b) Greater consideration should be given at appraisal to aspects of institutional
consolidation especially when the NARS is fragmented and when salaries are low and operational costs are scarce; (c)
The expectation that the CARP would assume leadership of and credibility among the institutions of the NARS without
dynamic and respected leaders and an inbuilt dependency of the institutions on the CARP and without control of the
funds was misplaced; (d) The emphasis of the project on human resources development training, strategic provision
of equipment and provision of good housing were important factors in achieving a highly competent and motivated
scientific staff, which is particularly important in attracting and retaining staff at more remote research institutes; (e)
Considerable savings could be made if the training program is administered by an efficient project management unit
instead of external consultants and if the split-training program is fostered; and (f) Contract research administered
by a central body, when appropriately managed, provides an essential means for sponsoring inter-institutional
research, mobilizing the greatly under-utilized research resources of the universities, promoting joint research with
the private sector and encouraging strategic and upstream research in key areas.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1776-CE)
1.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.     Project Objectives and Scope. The principal goal of the Agricultural Research Project (ARP) was to raise
farmers' incomes by increasing agricultural production through the development of better varieties and improved
husbandry practices and farming systems that are aimed at responding to farmers' regionally specific problems. The
principal elements of the project were: (i) establishment of a Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) with
appropriate authority to formulate, through a National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP), an overall strategy for
research and to set national research policy and priorities for allocation of funds for phased implementation of
research programs; (ii) provision of infrastructure, equipment, machinery and vehicles and library development at
research institutions; (iii) staff development and technical assistance; (iv) introduction of a contract research
program; (v) establishment of a research planning cell and project management unit; (vi) provision for incremental
staff and operating costs; (vii) introduction of research planning and evaluation procedures; and (viii) improvement
of research-extension linkages.
2.     Proiect Chanzes after Appraisal. Three changes took place after appraisal. First, the original project design
was modified with the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) adding a phase II (November 1992 to October 1995)
and a phase III (November 1995 to October 1998) to its original commitment on the technical assistance program
provided by GTZ (Agency for Development of the FRG). The total value of the GTZ component is DM 5.5
million which greatly exceeds the original commitment of the FRG towards ARP (DM 1.6 million). Second, IDA's
share of project costs was temporarily increased during the oil crisis in 1991-1992. Third, following the Second
Interim Review Mission of April 1994, the Association canceled an amount of SDR 2.67million (US$3.70 million
equivalent) with effect from November 1, 1995 (para 28).
3.     Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project was important to Sri Lanka's country/sectoral development
and supported the Bank's country assistance strategy. The specific project objectives were clear. The establishment
of the CARP and the introduction of research planning and evaluation procedures were particularly important to
improve the efficiency of the fragmented national agricultural research system (NARS) and to develop close
relationships between NARS administrators and policy makers. The introduction of the contract research program
was also appropriate to exploit complementarities between the various participants within the NARS. However, the
project design was overly optimistic on CARP's institutional capacity and placed excessive reliance on its
performance ability. The project also failed to appreciate the need for downsizing and consolidation of research
facilities (para 12) . Implementation risks identified were minimal, but the risk that CARP would not develop
sufficient leadership and credibility to be able to significantly influence research policy and funding in the NARS
was true (paras 14-16).



2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.      The criteria adopted for judging project achievements were satisfactory for physical targets and marginally
satisfactory for institutional changes.
Physical Objectives
5.     Incremental staff. The project provided funding for extra key staff at research institutes/stations (129
research officers and technical staff and 40 support staff) and to staff the newly created CARP (21 staff), the PMU
(23 staff) and a Headquarters Planning Cell (5 staff) in the Department of Agriculture (DOA). The majority of these
positions were filled, albeit late, although a recurring problem occurred with filling positions for agricultural
economists. The Headquarters Planning Cell was disbanded in January 1994 with the restructuring of the DOA.
Most institutes/stations now have more balanced research teams (scientific disciplines and technicians), but future
consideration has to be given to increasing positions for socio- or agricultural economists and reducing the number
of support staff (para 21).
6.      Civil works. A program of construction of new facilities (laboratories, offices and libraries [20], ancillary
facilities [28], glass/screen houses [10], staff residences [143], electrical and communication systems [139], farm
development [19] and water supplies [30]) and renovation of existing facilities [62] for research institutes/stations
and CARP was initiated under ARP. The civil works program was delayed, according to the original project
schedule, but by completion date all civil works had been completed with the exception of six minor items under
force account. Major delays were caused by civil unrest and shortages of cement and steel reinforcing during 1988-
89. Supervision of this program has been good and design and quality of construction appreciated by recipient
institutes/stations.
7.      Equipment and vehicles. The project undertook an extensive program to supply new key equipment to
institutes/stations. Some 701 items of laboratory equipment (heating & cooling equipment, balances, glass/water
treatment equipment, meters/analytical equipment, optical equipment, crushing/grinding/mixing equipment,
centrifuges, laminar flow chambers, soil sieves/others and spares) were purchased. In addition, an extensive array of
office equipment (726 items), including typewriters, photocopiers, calculators, computer hardware and software,
fans and air-conditioners, communication equipment and miscellaneous items, was provided. Equipment purchases
mostly exceeded original estimates as savings made through management measures taken by PMU were re-utilized
for payment on expanded physical targets set for procurement of goods (para 38).
8.     In the NARS, DOA was the biggest recipient of laboratory and office equipment. Many of the institutes are
now well equipped. Vehicles supplied included 16 cars, 24 doublecab pick-ups, 12 passenger vans, 3 buses, 32
motorcycles and 41 bicycles. Farm vehicles included 16 tractors and 14 other items. Vehicle purchases improved
research staff mobility and were generally in line with the original estimates.
9.      Staff training. Major emphasis has been given to human resource development. The original proposal was
to provide 26 Ph.D. and 76 M.Sc./M.Phil fellowships for long-term training for staff of institutes/stations in selected
disciplines, based on an identified needs assessment at the time of project preparation. All Ph.D. fellowships and 50
of the M.Sc./M.Phil fellowships were to be undertaken at overseas universities, with 26 M.Sc./M.Phil fellowships to
be undertaken in Sri Lanka, mostly at Post Graduate Institute of Agriculture of the University of Peradeniya.
Considerable savings made by PMU allowed the overseas fellowship program to be greatly exceeded with 36 and



107 staff selected for Ph.D. and M.Sc./M.Phil training, respectively, and 29 local M.Sc./M.Phil training. Problems
with the program included a significant number of staff (6 Ph.D. and 10 M.Sc./M.Phil candidates) not returning to
Sri Lanka (particularly from USA) (para 42(a)).
10.     Ther-e is now in place a critical mass of capable researchers. The need now is to rationalize the use of these
resources (para 12) and to formulate a long-term  training strategy to facilitate human resources development
planning and allow a continuous flow of young graduates to be trained, so as to replace the senior staff leaving.
11.     An extensive program of both overseas and local short-term training was also provided. It was proposed
that 77 overseas and 33 local training programs for both scientific and technician staff and 5 study tours for selected
CARP staff would be provided to meet critical training needs. The short-term training program was also greatly
expanded, with a total of 189 awards, 134 for overseas and 55 for local training,
Institutional Development Objectives
12.     Institutional development. In 1987, eight ministries, embracing 17 agencies, and including the Office of
the President were involved in agricultural research. Co-ordination between these organizations was difficult and
lacking. The pro ject's means of dealing with this overlapping network was to create the CARP (para 13). Significant
institutional changes occurred during the project. The devolution of extension services from the DOA to provincial
councils at the end of 1987 represented a major, positive move toward giving provincial and rural communities
greater power and voice in the development process. The DOA had two restructurings: in 1994, when the regional
research centers became part of three commodity institutes (Rice, Field Crops and Horticulture) and subsequently in
1996, when the regional research station concept was reinstated. These major changes represented a positive
development that should provide in the long run for greater flexibility, agility and accountability. Organization
along commodity lines should promote greater focus and team  spirit, and enable the bringing to bear of all
necessarv elements, from strategic research through technology generation and transfer. There are, however, a
numliber of issues that must be addressed to ensure that the new organization achieves its purposes. First, an
important organizational issue, related to the operational principles of critical mass and disciplinary excellence, is
the need for consolidation of scientific expertise, specialized equipment, infrastructure and other resources. This
issue was not addressed by the DOA restructuring process in spite of recommendations made by the second interim
review mission of April 1994. Although CARP undertook a study to consider rationalization of research resources,
little follow-up action has been taken (para 15). Consolidation of research activities is, however, clearly warranted
in view of the very fragmented nature of the NARS. Consolidation may also be a partial solution to problem of low
scientific salaries and scarcity of operating costs if some of the budgets savings are used for these purposes. Greater
consideration should have been given at appraisal to aspects of institutional consolidation in Sri Lanka (para 42 (b)).
Second, in the case of Field Crop Research Development Institute and the Horticultural Research Development
Institute, their nianagement remained responsible for two regional research stations. This has resulted in their
respective mandates and functioning becoming blurred.
13.     Establishment, functioning and performance of CARP. An Act of Parliament was enacted in December
1987 to set up CARP as a pre-condition of the project. Two Standing Committees on Administrative Matters
(disbanded in 1994) and Research Programs were set up. A third Standing Committee on Extension was established
in 1993 to strengthen research-extension linkages. All committees have met approximately nine times each year.
CARP was established with appropriate authority to formulate, through a NARP, an overall strategy for research
and set national research policy and priorities for allocation of resources, recommend allocation of funds for
planned implemenitation of research programs and strengthen critical linkages between research activities of
different iistitutionis.



4
14.    CARP has had considerable difficulty covering its wide mandate due to systemic weaknesses in its staffing,
composition, status and functional autonomy. First, the credibility of CARP as the lead institution was seriously
undermined by its staffing which never had sufficient prestige nor professional respect earned from its advise to
influence other- independent institutions. Second, CARP's composition, being made up largely of official
representatives of government bodies, has encouraged a general adherence to the statu quo (para 42 (c)). Third,
CARP's placement under the perview of one of the ministries does not give it the status nor sufficient authority to
influence inter-ministerial decisions, nor even, those in the ministry to which it is attached. Finally, CARP has been
charged with research planning and coordination without control over funds (para 17). This typically leads to failure
of a council such as CARP to undertake its responsibility of directing research policy and influencing the research
agenda . CARP was to play a major role in preparation of the NARP. However, CARP has only produced a draft
NARP after protracted delays in 1996. The draft NARP, which has yet to be cleared by the Council, is seen as a
very general document that did not express a well thought out basis and vision for future agricultural development
in the country. CARP should develop a broad "vision" of the future evolution of the research system over the next
10-20 years. A vision statement of the future evolution of the research system should be a precondition for Bank
suIpport to a new lending program for agricultural research (paras 34 - 42 (d)). The many long delays in finalizing
the NARP are the result of several factors. One is the delay experienced in developing national and institutional
priorities. Another is the delay experienced in completing the Status Review Reports (SRRs) by the Regional
Research Centers. The completion of the SRRS was a prerequisite to finalize the NARP. Also the CARP has acted
responsibly in not approving unacceptable SRRs drafts. In addition to the disappointing performance in preparing
NARP, CARP's performance in managing the contract research program has only been partially successful (para
19).
1 5.    The major achievements of CARP have been to promote two management tools, INFORM (Information
System  for Agricultural Research Managers) and CADMAR (Composite Approach to Decision Making in
Agricultural Research) (para 16). CARP also initiated external reviews of research institutions. Three have been
completed and two are nearing completion. These reviews have been generally appreciated by commodity research
institutes. CARP has also completed studies on improving the conditions of service for researchers and
consolidating resear-ch facilities, but to date no positive action has been taken. A major thrust of the project was to
use INFORM as a management tool to aid the optimal use of staff and funds. Developed in cooperation with ISNAR
in 1988/89, it is still not being fully utilized. A weakness of INFORM is that the data supplied is the proposed, not
actual, budget and programs and therefore should be modified accordingly. The output of INFORM has not been
used to analyze and change the allocation of national resources for agricultural research and little feedback has been
provided to the research institutions for their planning purposes. This has been due to several factors, including that
the task of institutional coordinator has usually been given to a research officer as an addition to his normal duties,
coordinators have changed regularly and inputting of data is time consuming. Consequently, a number of
institutions have ceased to use INFORM. However, many organizations do see the potential of INFORM for
research policy development and planning at both an institute and national level (para 18).
16.    CADMAR involves an eight-step process that identifies, formulates, evaluates and prioritizes Research
Thrusts (see Appendix E). The first steps have now been successfully used in six institutes, but others have had no
involvement with it, including the DOA. For many institutions, particularly those not exposed to CADMAR, the
aims of r esearch are poorly expressed and allocation of funds is usually according to discipline demand
17.    While the overall performance of CARP has been disappointing, it still remains a very important body for
providing leadership and direction to the NARS in Sri Lanka. It requires, however, fundamental changes to
ESDAR. Strategic Issues for Agricultural Research Policy to 2000 and Beyond. Draft. November 1996



5
overcome inherent institutional and functional weaknesses in order to evolve into an institution of utility and
importance. CARP has to become a proactive organization that provides an aggressive, first-class service to
scientists, research institutions and the NARS as a whole, as well as assuring Government of it's utility and
capability to administer public funds.  CARP must identify and demonstrate it's comparative advantage. The
scientists and research institutions must clearly see that CARP can provide services and support to them that they
themselves cannot provide (see Appendix A).
18.    Management and planning of research.  The Director or Deputy Director of research is usually
responsible for research policy and management at each research institution/center. The most potentially important
advances in improving research prioritization and planning has been from the development of the management
tools, CADMAR and INFORM. FAO, through its technical co-operation program, is presently assisting the DOA in
the development of organization and management procedures and improving management information systems for
better monitoring and evaluation of DOA's activities. This should lead to modifications and improvements in the
utility of the INFORM system developed under the ARP as well as overall research planning and management.
19.    Contract research. The introduction of a program  of contract research was seen as an important
component of the project, providing flexible funding to research institutions and scientists to conduct specific
research on problems/activities identified as urgently needed to support agricultural development goals. There was
considerable delay in the initiation of this program and under-utilization of funds, due to civil unrest during 1988-
89, some perceived difficulties in use of funds by some institutes and probably as a result of the concept being new
to Sri Lanka. The use of research contracts (now totaling 237 projects) has provided operating funds and allowed
institutes, universities and lately the private sector to increase their research capacity. The program has been only
partially successful due to inadequate attention being given to the use of priority setting as a basis for selection and
preparation of contract research proposals, the lack of emphasis given to the original aims and types of activities
envisaged in this program, the poor quality of some of the research undertaken and, until recently, the lack of an
effective system for monitoring and evaluation of the contract research program. The program should, however, be
continued and expanded for the reasons explained above (para 42(e)).
20.     Relevance and quality of research. There has been a widescale increase in knowledge and skills of
scientists, as a result of the project training program, as well as a growing awareness, acceptance and change to
more demand-driven research thrusts and experiments that emphasize a multi-disciplinary approach to research
rather than the previous disciplinary approach that emphasized the purely scientific aspect of research. This has
enabled research to become more relevant and of higher quality (para 42(f)). However, this improvement has not
been universal. For example, there remains a heavy emphasis on breeding and selection at most crop-based research
stations of the DOA. At these institutes/centers, more emphasis needs to be placed on inter-disciplinary work aimed
at specific problems or opportunities to improve production in defined farming systems.
21.     At the same time, economic methods for research priority setting have evolved rapidly and can now
provide valuable information to decision makers for more effectively allocating research resources to meet national
objectives Therefore, economic analysis in setting research priorities initiated under the CADMAR approach should
be further developed at the program  level, and broadened to include non-commodity research (para 42(g)).
Economic skills are, however, weak in the NARS. NARS needs to employ more economists to consolidate its
capacity to conduct such an analysis on an ongoing basis rather than on an one-off exercise. In addition, the SRRs
for each institute provide much information that can be used to determine research priorities and plans. However,



6
the SRRs have not been used effectively in planning meetings. Finally, the use of external reviews of institutes, part
of which covers research planning, needs to be expanded to help focus research.
22.    In the era of tights budgets, NARS will also be well advised to establish performance monitors and
evaluation systems that: (i) track current resource allocations and monitor shifts in resource allocation in accord
with priorities: (ii) highlight research program impacts on national policy objectives; and (iii) provide a basis for
measuring progress and making needed adjustments to program (para 42(h)).
23.    Library support services. The provision of improved library facilities at selected institutes and textbooks
and journals to all libraries has improved the availability of scientific information to researchers. This has been
further enhanced by the establishment of the Agricultural Information Network (AGRINET), which provides
contents pages of major scientific journals and photocopies of selected articles to researchers in 24 institutes
throughout Sri Lanka, as well as the CD-ROM based information on international literature provided by CARP.
24.    Research-Extension linkages. Improved research-extension linkages were a project objective. Linkages
were to be improved through use of SRRs, which were late being completed; economic studies on the viability of
technologies, input use, constraint analysis, and research program design, which were not carried out due to a lack
of agricultural economists; and systematic development of adaptive research work which was done in a limited way
due to a lack of necessary training and use of contract research funds for this purpose (para 42(i)).
25.     There are, however, a number of formal and informal mechanisms in place to promote information
exchange between research and extension; viz. Regional Technical Working Group Meetings, District Agricultural
Committee meetings, monthly research-extension dialogues, on-farm research trials, diagnostic teams, field days
and exhibitions, radio talks and printed media. However, linkages between research and extension are generally
poor, except for those plantation crops that have their own extension wing; although some of these institutes also
recognize that better linkages are still required. There is a general recognition by managers and scientists that these
linkages need to be strengthened. This would best be promoted through the use of joint diagnostic teams including
extensionists and agricultural economists that are pro-active in the field rather than responding in an ad hoc manner
to farmer requests for assistance in solving problems
26.    Technical Assistance. The Government of the FRG agreed to provide a grant through GTZ for the
technical assistance (TA) requirements of the project. Some 124 person-months (pm) of TA was proposed, 54 pm
for international assistance and 70 pm for national consultants. International assistance was expected to be used to
assist the researchi organizations with research planning, budgeting, management and evaluation; support the
development of the CARP administration and management; and provide specific assistance in developing pasture
and fodder and farming systems research. National assistance was to be used for assistance to institutions/research
stations and CARP in the preparation of NARP, review and approval of annual research plans and evaluation of
research work. GTZ provided assistance under the project until 1992 (international TA was fully utilized by 1991
but only 40% of the national TA). Subsequently they provided two further phases of assistance. The total value of
the GTZ component project is DM  5.5 million (about US$3.2 million) which greatly exceeded the original
commitment (DM  1.6 million) of the FRG towards the ARP.
27.     Most of the international TA was directed to CARP and the research institutes. Support was provided to
the development of INFORM and CADMAR (paras 15-16) and to the production of the NARP. This includes,



7
inter alia, assistance for the preparation of the SRRs and for the development of methodologies to prioritize
commodities at the national level (see Appendix E). Support was also provided to undertake the external reviews of
research institutions (para 13) and to develop an Agricultural Database System. National TA was also provided to
assist with these tasks. The assistance provided by the FRG will continue till October 1998 to, inter alia, consolidate
the use of CADMAR, complete the external reviews, and further develop the Agricultural Database system .
Project Financing and Costs
28.     Project Financing. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR 15.40 million (US$18.60 million), SDR 12.28 million
(US$17.37 million) had been disbursed to the GOSL at completion. SDR 2.67 million (US$3.70million) was
canceled in November 1995 for the following reasons: underspending of contract research and of incremental staff
costs. The undisbursed balance of SDR 446,569 (US$618,000) will be canceled effective May 15, 1997 which is the
final date of payment made under the Credit. A further amount of SDR 63,100 (US$87,240) remaining unused in
the Special Account will be refunded to the Credit and canceled. This will result in the total disbursed amount
decreasing by SDR 63,100 and the canceled amount increasing by the same amount. Cofinancing for the project
was provided by GTZ, which initially provided a grant of US$0.8million for technical assistance, and which
provided two subsequent grants, raising the total to US$3.2million equivalent.
29.     Project Costs. Total project cost at completion was Rs.1,009.4 million, which is 38% above the original
estimated project cost of Rs.727.21 million (US$26.55 million), due to a 104% devaluation of the Rupee against the
Dollar, but is 37% below the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms. Reasons are: (i) units costs for long-
termi training program and equipment have been reduced below levels anticipated at appraisal through management
measures taken by the PMU; (ii) disbursements of funds provided for incremental staff have lagged behind as
provisions made for salary payments during the period 1988-1992, remained largely unutilized because incremental
staff positions were filled later than appraisal estimates; and (iii) operational expenditures fell also below
expectations for contract research because estimates made at appraisal were high and the late start of the contract
r esearch program. The above figures exclude ongoing technical assistance being financed by GTZ through October
1998.
Project Benefits
30.     National agricultural research system. Undoubtedly the greatest benefit of the project has been in the
strengtheninig of research institutions within the NARS of Sri Lanka. Significant improvements have been achieved
in research staff capability due to the extensive training program and strategic improvements made to research
facilities, support services and to staff accommodation. Research institutions now have a well-equipped scientific
cadre who are making a more cost-effective use of resources. The use of CADMAR is also gaining wide acceptance.
31.    Impact of research on agricultural development. There has been no attempt by any research institution
to assess the impact of its research on agricultural development. Little evidence exists that widescale improvements
have yet occurred in farm production and household incomes as a result of improved research capability (para 39).
However, there has been a significant recent change in research focus to multi-disciplinary research aimed at
responding to more specific opportunities to improve farm production and incomes. Indirect evidence suggests that
some specific farmers problems have been addressed and productivity increased. For example, control of potato cyst
nematode, development of leaf spot virus-free papaya, development of an IPM program for the control of the
sugarcane leathopper. introduction of new technologies (rain guards) that are benefiting the rubber producers during
the rainy season, and development of inter-cropping systems (annual crops with sugarcane, and cinnamon and tea



8
with rubber) to increase incomes during establishment of perennial crops, have all shown value in increasing
production and farm incomes. Also, there has been a major shift in the maturity classes of the rice being grown.
Today, approximately 75% of the varieties are 3 1/2 month varieties compared to the traditional 4 1/2 month
varieties which were grown in the past. Even though the rice yield have stagnated over the last ten years, the new
varieties have (i) increased the yield output/day; and (ii) prevented an estimated 10% decline in yields which
generally occurs when new strains of insects and diseases develop on old varieties.
32.     Economic benefit. No attempt to quantify the economic benefits of this type of project has been made
because of the difficulty of determining the real economic impact of project research activities on farm and rural
household incomes, particularly given the long-term nature of research, and the expected lag between improvement
in research facilities and staff training and the expected on-farm results.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subiect to Government Control
33.     Civil unrest was a major factor adversely influencing project implementation during 1988-89 while lack of
building supplies at this time and a subsequent period of credit squeeze caused additional delays in the civil works
program. However, management measures taken by the PMU allowed the civil work program to be completed on
time. Finally, poor weather conditions adversely influenced the overall agricultural production in 1995 and 1996.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
34.    There were a number of factors subject to government control that contributed to the modest project
performance to achieve the desired institutional functioning of both the CARP and the NARS. These included: (i)
inadequate policy environment for operating a demand-driven research system with greater accountability to the end
users; (ii) absence of a long-term vision of the future evolution of the research system; (iii) insufficient
encouragement, support and commitment to the principle of a national policy and coordinating body (CARP) for
agricultural research; (iv) weak institutional autonomy of the CARP and within the NARS; (v) weak co-ordination
and co-operation between the institutions and departments of government in the NARS; (vi) weak monitoring and
evaluation of research programs thus failing to adequately highlight research program impact on national policy
objectives and to provide the necessary basis for measuring research progress and adjustment to programs; and (vii)
the use of performance appraisal systems that are biased toward seniority and don't recognize merit.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.    In the short-term, it seems likely that the GOSL will be able to maintain project achievements. The GOSL
has indeed indicated that total budget allocation, as a percentage of GDP, for national research will increase and that
budget support for the contract research program will continue. Also, incremental staffing positions have been
absorbed into the regular budgets of institutions. In the medium and longer-term, however, project sustainability is
uncertain. Sustainability will depend on the willingness of the Government to, inter alia, (i) liberalize the
agricultural policy framework and ensure that regulatory environments are favorable for operating a demand-driven
research system with greater accountability to the end users and for promoting private-sector research and
technology acquisition; (ii) rationalize existing resources; (iii) promote cost-recovery systems; and (iv) provide
adequate performance incentives for staff, the most critical being sufficient operational funding and appropriate
criteria and opportunities for advancement in a research institution. All these factors are currently uncertain.



9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.    Project Preparation and Appraisal. The project was prepared in October 1985 by a team of GOSL experts,
assisted by a consultant from the International Service for National Agricultural Research, under the supervision of
eminent Sri Lanka scientists and senior admistratrors. Appraisal was completed in 1986 by a joint IDA-GTZ team.
The SAR identified the key project components required to overcome deficiencies in the existing agricultural
research system. Greater consideration should have been given, however, to CARP's institutional capacity and to
rationalizing existing resources in addition to improving facilities (para 42(b)).
37.    Supervision. The Bank undertook regular missions including two interim review missions to supervise
implementation of the project. Supervisory mission reports indicate that the missions undertook detailed reviews of
implementation progress of the project and while indicating deficiencies in implementation gave helpful and
constructive advice to overcome such problems. The GOSL has appreciated the flexibility of the Bank in adjusting
project targets in accordance with changing priorities and credit savings, during project implementation. The
approval of retroactive financing for establishment and staffing of the PMU, an initiation of the civil works and
training programs prior to project effectiveness, changes in the size of the project imprest account and temporary
increase in IDA's share of project costs during the 1991-92 oil crisis, were also beneficial.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.    The PMU gave continued high priority and attention to implementation of the project as proposed. It
showed the flexibility necessary to adapt to changing circumstances, particularly in terms of manpower training,
construction and the procurement of equipment. Considerable savings were made by PMU who conducted the entire
training program incurring no expenditures on external consultants, and who fostered the use of cheaper split
training programs. Savings were also made on the procurement of laboratory equipment by evaluation offers on an
item-wise basis, instead of grouping bids. The success of these were also due to the close relationships developed
between the PMU and the Bank and the dedication of the PMU. Several factors delayed project implementation.
The long delays in the preparation of SRRs by research institutes, and the inability of CARP to finalize the NARP
were critical factors in CARP not achieving its desired position as a pre-eminent body in policy development and
coordination of national research. Contract research was a new concept to Sri Lanka and CARP has been unable to
establish a fully effective system of contract research that is rigorously monitored and evaluated and is strategically
relevant to identified priorities and needs.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.    The overall project outcome is assessed as partially successful. While the project substantially achieved and
even exceeded its physical objectives, it was marginally successful in promoting institutional changes such as the
establishment of CARP. The evolution of a properly functioning CARP and research institutions within the NARS
has proved to be slow but significant improvements in priority setting, planning and implementation of better
quality research which is more demand driven have occurred which in the future should result in improvements in
agricultural production and household incomes.  The project did not yet achieve any substantial, widespread
influence on raising agricultural production and rural incomes (see Appendix B). However, because research



10
programs impacts are generally realized only after a considerable time period, it is unlikely that a specific research
project such as ARP will result in a measurable charge in these broad measures during its implementation period.2
H.FUTUREDEVELOPMENT
40.    The building-up of CARP as the central body within the agricultural research system is imperative. To
accomplish this CARP must (i) approve the NARP; (ii) develop a long-term vision of the future evolution of the
research system; (iii) promote the institutionalization and acceptance of INFORM and CADMAR at all institutions
simultaneously so as to prioritize research needs on a common basis; (iv) continue funding contract research, paying
close attention to inter-institutional research, links with the universities and the building of links with agencies
outside the research system, e.g. private industry or international agencies so as to complement not replace the
existing structure; (v) be responsible for directing funds for post-graduate training, since CARP would be best
positioned to know the priorities of the whole research system; and (vi) develop a system of performance evaluation
and install a mechanism for rewarding good performance by staff. CARP should also be free to solicit funds from a
wide range of sources.
41.    The Government has indicated that funds for agricultural research will be increased and that all incremental
posts will be absorbed into the research system. This will ensure project sustainability in the short-term. In the
medium and longer-term , however, there is a need to: (i) provide more autonomy to CARP especially in terms of
research funding; (ii) liberalize the agricultural policy framework; (iii) rationalize existing facilities and programs.
In this regard it is critical that research managers have agreement at the highest levels that budget savings from
downsizing will be retained by the research institute to improve operating budgets and salaries of remaining staff;
(iv) introduce personnel policies that create a favorable environment for research performance; and (v) develop
specialized funding mechanisms so as to increase the role and contribution of private sector entities in funding and
execution of research.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
42.    The most important outcome of the project has been that while there has been considerable institutional
strengthening, there has been much less emphasis on ensuring a fully effective and functioning research system that
is responding to the needs of farmers and industry sector development. There are a number of specific lessons to be
drawn from the implementation and outcome of this project, including:
(a)     Considerable savings could be made if the training program is administered by an efficient project
management unit instead of external consultants and if the split-training program is fostered. Meeting
long-term Human Resources Development needs by providing training in USA and Canada is a risky
operation as many students did not return at the end of their training programs. Return rates of students in
other countries was much higher. This policy needs to be reviewed;
(b)     When the NARS is fragmented and when salaries are low and operational costs are scarce, greater
consideration should be given at appraisal to aspects of institutional consolidation;
2    OED. Achievements and Problems in Development of National Agricultural Research Systems. June 1996.



I1
(c)     The expectation that the CARP would assume leadership of and credibility among the institutions of
the NARS without dynamic and respected leaders and an inbuilt dependency of the institutions on the CARP
and without control of the funds was misplaced;
(d)     A vision statement of the future evolution of the research system should be a precondition for
Bank support to a new lending program for agricultural research;
(e)     The contract research program  has been only partially successful. However, it provides an
essential means for sponsoring inter-institutional research, mobilizing the greatly under-utilized research
resources of the universities, promoting joint research with the private sector and encouraging strategic and
upstream research in key areas and should be continued;
(f)     The emphasis of the project on human resources development training, strategic provision of
equipment and provision of good housing were important factors in achieving a highly competent and
motivated scientific staff, which is particularly important in attracting and retaining staff at more remote
research institutes;
(g)     Economic methods for research priority setting have evolved rapidly and can now provide
valuable information to decision makers for more effectively allocating research resources to meet national
objectives. In research projects, economic analysis in setting research priorities should be introduced at the
program level, and broadened to include non-commodity research;
(h)     In the era of tights budgets, NARS will be well advised to establish performance monitors and
evaluation systems that: (i) track current resource allocations and monitor shifts in resource allocation in
accord with priorities; (ii) highlight research program impacts on national policy objectives; and (iii)
provide a basis for measuring progress and making needed adjustments to program; and
(i)     Research-extension linkages remained weak. More funds for applied research and the simple
establishment of diagnostic teams under ARP were insufficient interventions without appropriate staff,
especially agro-economists or economists, training, systematic procedures for needs identification, active
participation by extension and farmers and good monitoring and evaluation procedures.



Filename:          ICRMAIN.2
Directory:         M:\MBASCON\SRILANKA\RES\ICR\REVISED
Template:          L:\MSO\WRD6\TEMPLATE\NORMAL.DOT
Title:             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Subject:
Author:            ENTER YOUR NAME HERE
Keywords:
Comments:
Creation Date:     June 6, 1997 3:1 1 PM
Revision Number:   23
Last Saved On:     June 11, 1997 10:20 AM
Last Saved By:     ENTER YOUR NAME HERE
Total Editing Time:  71 Minutes
Last Printed On:    June 11, 1997 10:21 AM
As of Last Complete Printing
Number of Pages: 11
Number of Words:       7,408 (approx.)
Number of Characters:  42,230 (approx.)



1
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives            Substantial     Partial   Negligible   NotApplicable
(9')         (9')        (9')           (9')
Macro policies                             Q             Q           jJ             El
Sector policies                            El             l          E              El
Financial objectives                       Q             Q                          0 E
Institutional development                  Q             0           iJ             0
Physical Objectives                        E             0E °                 
Poverty reduction                          Q             Q           E              0
Gender issues                              E             Q                          0 g
Other social objectives                    Q             E           5              0
Environmental objectives                   Q             Q                          y
Public sector management                   Q             0           E              E
Private sector development                 5            Q 
Other (Human Resource Development)        E0             0           0              0
B. Proiect sustainability                 Likdy          Un!eikey      Uncertain
(9')            (9')          (9')
O               El             0
ighly
C. Bank performance                     satisfactory    Satisfacto      Deficien
(9')            (9')          (9')
Identification                              5               0              E
Preparation assistance                      E               0              E
Appraisal                                   a               0              E
Supervision                                 5               0              E
Hfighly
D. Borrower performance                 satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficie
(9')            (9')          (9')
Preparation                                 5               0              E
Implementation                              50                             El
Covenant compliance                                        E0 El
Operation (if applicable)                                   0              El
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome              satisfarv   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(9')         (9')          (9')            (9')
Ol           0             O               El



2
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                    Year of approval           Status
Preceding operations
I. Agricultural Extension and       To introduce the training and visit (T&V)  June 12, 1979       Closed June 30,
Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 931 -  agricultural extension system throughout                     1986
CE)                                  Sri Lanka and emphasis on-farm adaptive
research to test and promote new
technologies.
Followving operations
I. Second Agricultural Extension    To increase farmers' incomes and          June 9, 1992         To be closed on
Project (Cr. 2380-CE)               agricultural production by improving                           June 30, 1999
farm productivity through, inter alia,
promotion of innovative technology.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                      Date planned                      Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                       AprilVMay 1984
Preparation                                                                      October 1985
Appraisal                                          November 1985                 Pre-appraisal: Dec. 1985
Appraisal: Feb. 1986
Negotiations                                       May 1986; June 30, 1986;      Dec. 1986
August 4, 1986
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                 July 1986; Oct. 1986          April 7, 1987
Signing                                                                          May 6, 1987
Etfectiveness                                                                    January 8, 1988
First tranche release
Midtemi review                                     First: Jan. 1989              First: October 1991
Second: Jan. 1992            Second: April 1993
Second (and third) tranche release
Project completion                                 June 30, 1996                 June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                       December 31, 1996             December 31, 1996



3
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY87    FY88        FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93            FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate    0.10        1.00     2.00     4.00      7.00    10.00      13.00    16.00    17.60    18.60
Actual                0.00        0.58     1.49     2.48      4.01     5.93       8.01    10.76    13.28    16.02       17.28'
Actual as % of           0         58        75       62       57        59        62        67       75       86          93
estimate
Date of final                May 15, 1997
disbursement
US$17.37 million disbursed to date less US$87,240 remaining unused in the Special Account which will be
refunded to the Credit and canceled.



4
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in SARI President's Report                  Estimated        Actual       Percentage
1. Incremental Staff
Research Staff                                                                                              90.2
Research Officers                                                            34             33
Exp. Officers                                                                2              0I
Research Asst.                                                               80             77
Technicians                                                                  13             10
Support Staff                                                                                               87.5
Librarian                                                                    2              2
Admin. Officers                                                              3              2
Accountants                                                                  8              7
Clerks                                                                       13             11
Typists                                                                      14             13
CARP Staff                                                                                                 100.0
Executive Director                                                            I              I
Senior Scientists                                                            4              3
Agric. Economists                                                             I              I
Stats. Officers                                                               I             0"
I iformation Officer                                                         I              I
Res/Admin Staff                                                              8              12
Support Staff                                                                5              3
PMU Staff                                                                                                   95.7
Project Manager                                                               I              I
Project Coordinators                                                         7              6
Procurement Officer                                                          1              I
Civil Engineer                                                                I              I
Training Coordinator                                                          I              I
Accountant                                                                   1               I
Data Controller                                                               I             1
Support Staff                                                                10             10
Headquarters Planning Cell                                                    5              02/            0.0
2. Civil Works
Laboratories, Officers, Libraries                                            20             20            100.0
Storage, Workshops, Cold Rooms, Garages/Sheds                                28             28            100.0
Glass/Screen Houses                                                          10             10            100.0
Residences, Hostels, Circuit Bungalow                                       143            143            100.0
Electricity Supply/Distribution Systems                                     124            121            97.6
Communication Systems                                                        15             15            100.0
Buiildinig Renovation                                                        62             6             98.4
Farm Development (fencing,roads,inrigation)                                  19             19            100.0
Water Supply                                                                 30             30            100.0
3. Equipment
Laboratory Equipment (Items)                                                 -             701
Office Equipment (Items)                                                           .       726
1/ Posts suppressed.
2/ On account of restructuring of the DOA, the Headquarter Planning Cell ceased to exist with effect from
January 1, 1994.



~~--
1. Key iilplenientation indicators in SAR/ Presidents Report                  Estimate        Actual        Percentage
4. Vehicles
Cars                                                                         14             16             114.3
D/Cab Pick-ups                                                               23             24             104.3
Vans                                                                         10             12             120.0
Minibuses                                                                    4               3             75.5
Motorcycles                                                                  38             32             84.2
Bicycles                                                                     44             41             93.2
Tractors (4WD)                                                               6               3             50.0
Tractors (2WD)                                                               12             13             108.3
Others
5. Training (Number of Fellowships)
Long-term Training
Overseas Ph.D                                                                26             36             138.5
Overseas M.Sc./M.Phil.                                                       50             107           214.0
Local M.Sc./M.Phil.                                                          26             29             111.5
Short-tenm Training
Overseas                                                                     77             134            174.0
Local                                                                        33             55             166.7
6. Techniical Assistance (Person-months)
Inteniationial Consultants                                                   54             c"'             3
National Consultants                                                         70
7. Contract Research (Rs million)"
Applied Research                                                            85.52          54.96            64.3
Inter-Institute Research                                                    15.49           0.42            2.7
Special Research                                                             9.55          19.43           203.5
Adaptive Research                                                           9.93            3.28           33.0
Total                                                                    120.49          78.09           64.8
a/ Information not provided by GOSL or GTZ.
b/ Actual expenditure according to contract research categories is not accurate as research involving more than one
research institution was not always classified as inter-institute research.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not applicable



6
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USSM)V'               ActualAatest estimate (USSM)
Local        Foreign        Total         Local         Foreign       Total'
costs         costs                       costs          costs
ITEM
Civil Works                                4.50          2.25           6.75          7.15             -         7.153'
Vehicles & Equipment                       1.00          3.33           4.33          0.07          3.47          3.54
Fellowsihips & Training                    0.27          4.88           5.15          0.08          6.46          6.54
|FTechinical Assistance                    0.04          0.88           0.92            -           1.71          1.715/
Contract Research                          4.44           1.77          6.21          1.86             -          1.86 4
|Incremental Staff& Operating              2.88          0.30           3.18          1.34             -          1.34
TOTAL                                     13.13         13.41         26.54          10.50         11.64        22.145/
1/ SAR - Annex 2, Table 7 (including taxes).
2/ Figures are based on Controller's Data as of May 27, 1997 with the exception of technical assistance figures based on
PMU data and US$87,240 remaining unused in the Special Account which will be refunded to the Credit and canceled.
3/ IDA disbursed 65% f this amount.
4/ IDA disbursed 60% of this amount.
5/ Excluding ongoing TA being financed by GTZ through October 1988
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (USSM)                 Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local        Foreign        Total           Local          Foreign         Total
costs         costs                         costs           costs
SOURCE
IDA                                   5.900         12.700         18.600         7.35             9.93          17.28
FRG                                   0.100          0.700         0.800            -              1.71          1.711/
GOSL                                  7.140          0.000         7.140          3.15              -            3.15
TOTAL                                13.140        13.400         26.450         10.50            11.64         22.14
I/ Excluding ongoing TA being financed by GTZ through October 1988.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There was no net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at appraisal, as such estimates are not applicable
this type of project. Therefore the NPV and ERR have not been re-estimated by the ICR mission.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original fulfiliment Revised fulfillment
Text           Covenant type     Present           date               date                            Description of
Agreement        Reference                           status                                                                 covenant                                      Comments
DCA    Article 11 - 3.01 (c)          4             C                                              Borrower to allocate adequate funds to operation and  In compliance
maintenance of facilities
Article IV -4.01 (b) (c)     I              C                                             Submit audit reports not later than 9 months after the end of  In compliance
each FY
Schedule 4- 1                5              C            06/30/87                         Establish Project Coordination Committce within Ministry of In compliance
Agriculture (MADR)
Schedule 4 -2                5              C            06/30/87                         Establish (&) staff HQ Rcsearch Planning Cell in Dept of    In compliance
Agriculture (DOA)
Schedule 4-3                 5              C            12131/87                         Secure land in Colomnbo for Council of Agncultural Research  In compliance
Policy (CARP) administration building
Schedule 4 - 4               5             CD            03/31/88                         Prepare and submit for comments Status Review Report for   Status Review Reports completed in
each of 7 agro-ecological regions                     September 1992 for seven regional
agricultural research centers and two
plsntations research institutes
Schedule 4 - 5(i)            4              C                                             Maintain in FY87 sane level of agricultutal research   In compliance
expenditure as in FY86
Schedule 4 - 5(i)            5             NC                                             Prepare (&) furmish to IDA agricultul research programs of  Not submitted because of slow start up
research institutes for FY88 & FY89
Schedule 4 - 5(iii)          5              C                                             Carry out annual research progran planning and review  In compliance
exercise
Schedule 4 - 6               5              C            12/31/87                         Prepare and submit preliminary Manpower Development    In compliance
Plan
Schedule 4-7                 5             CP            12/31/88           12/31/95      Prepar and submit National Agricultural Research Plan  Draft NARP not yet cleared by the Council
(NARP). to be Association for its approval, by December 31,
1988 and update it from time to time
Schedule 4 - 8               5              C            05/31/S7                         Fornt Diagnostic Team at all research institutions    In compliance
Schedule 4 -9                5             CD            06130/88           07/31191      Review existing extension system, improve system and   Review/study of extension financed by
research/extension linkage                            ADBfrA grant began January 1991 and
completed in July 1991. Findings taken
into account in the formulation of Cr. 2380-
CE
Schedule 4 -10               5             CD            12/31/89                         Prepare and submit to the Association by Dec31 of each year
of the projce period, for comments consolidated annual
research Tepor fior previous year
Schedule 4  I1               5             CD            01/31/89           04/28/94      CarryoutinterimreviewsofallresearchactivitiesinJanuary  Firstandsecondinterimreviewcompleted
19S9 and January 1991                                in October 1991 and April 1994
Schedule 4 - 12              5              C                                             After completion of project. retain all incremental project
staff and maintain adequate funds for resarch activities
Statu:   C                    Complied with                                                        Coveaut Cla:
CD                  Compliance after Delay                                               I        Accounts/audit
NC        -         Not Complied with                                                    2        Ftnancial perftbnancegenerate revenue from beneficiaries
SOON    -           Compliance Expeced in Reuonibly Stmost Tmft                          3        Flow and utiliution of Project funds
CP                  Complied with Pwtianv                                                4        Counerpt fhmding
NYD       -         Not Yet Due                                                          5        Mangement aspets of the Projet or of its executing agency
6        Environmental covenants
7        Involuntary reseslement
8        Indigenous people
9        Monitoring, review and reporting
10       Implementation
it       Sectoral or cross-secteral budgetary or other resource allocation
12       Sectoral or cross-sectoral megultory/institutional action



8
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual/Statement (O/D or OP/BP) was noticed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised               Actual"
Stage of Project Cycle       Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$      Weeks   US$('000)
Preparation to appraisal                                                -        52.4       109.8
Appraisal                                                               -        29.2       72.7
Negotiations through Board approval                                     -        12.1       31.6
Supervision                                 -          -                -       149.9      445.1
Completion                            13        34.7         -                   15.02'     58.1
TOTAL                                                                          258.6      723.3
1/ Data from World Bank MIS.
2/ Tentative estimate (twelve of which being contributed by FAO/CP).



9
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating i
Stage of          Month/       Number        Days in        Specialized    Implementatio    Development       Types of
prqject cycle        year           of          field         staffskills        n status       objectives      problems"
persons                    represented""
ThroLighi appraisal    Apr 1984       nar'           na              na                                       _
Oct 1985'         na           na               na
Dec 19855'        na           na               na
Feb 1986"'        na           na               na
Appraisal througlh    Dec 1986"        na           na               na                -               -
Board approval
Supervision         Apr 1987           2            15             Ag.,Ar              2               I
Sept 1987         3             10           Ag(2), Ar            2               1
Feb 1988          2            14             Ag,Ar               2               1               M
Sept 1988         2             10            Ag, Ar              2               I               F
May 1989          2            21             Ag(2)               2               2              T,F
Sept 1989          1            3              Ag                 2               3              T,M
Dec 1989          2            13             Ag,RS               2               3             T,M,F
July 1990         Vj/          19               Ag                2               3             T,M,F
Mar 1991          1            21               Ag                2               3               F
Mar 1991          I            20               Ho                -               -
Oct 19911"        2            22             Ag(2)               -               -
Mar 1992          1            18               Ag                2               2               F
Oct 1992          2            23             Ag,PS               2               2               F
May 1993          I            20              Ag                 2               3               F
Mar 1994n"        3            18            Ag,IS,RS             -               -
Oct 1994           1            8               Ag                S               S
Apr 1995           i            8               Ag                S               S
Mar 1996          2             9             Ag,Ec               S               S               T
Completion           Oct 1996          2            17             Ag,RS                               ,-              '    ._.
a/ Staff specialization: Ag-Agriculturist; RS-Research Specialist; Ar-Architect; Ec-Economist; Ho-Horticulturist; IS-Institutions Specialist;
and PS-l'rocureinent Specialist.
h/ Performanice ratings based on IBRD and IDA - Implementation Summary Form 590.
c/ l'ypes of problems: T-Technical; M-Managerial; and F-Financial.
d/ Project identification
e/ Informationi niot found in project files.
f/ Project preparation.
g/ Project pre-appraisal.
h/ Project appraisal
i/ Project negotiations
i/ Mission accompanied by two representatives from GTZ.
k/ Mission for comprehelisive assessment of current technology used in tree crop sector.
I/ First Interim Review of project. Mission included additional five joint members, two from GTZ, one from CARP and one from GOSL.
in/ Second Interim Review of project. Mission included additional two joint members, one from CARP and one from GOSL.



Appendix A
Page I of 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1776-CE)
A Brief Review of the Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP)
Introduction
1.     While the performance of CARP has been disappointing, it is potentially a very important body for
providing leadership and direction to the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) in Sri Lanka. It should be
given every support so that it can evolve into an institution of utility and importance. However, to do so it is clear
that CARP has to become a proactive organization that provides an aggressive, first-class service to scientists,
research institutions and the NARS as a whole, as well as assuring Government of it's utility and thereby it's
continued funding. CARP must identify and demonstrate it's comparative advantage. The scientists and research
institutions must clearly see that CARP can provide services and support to them that they themselves cannot
provide.
Problems and Issues Affecting CARP Performance
2.     Institutional Development. CARP has had considerable difficulty covering its wide mandate due to
systemic weaknesses in its staffing, composition and status. First, the credibility of CARP as the lead institution
was seriously undermined by its staffing which never had sufficient prestige nor professional respect earned from its
advice to influence other independent institutions and make a greater impact on funding. Second, CARP's
composition, being made up largely of official representatives of government bodies, has encouraged a general
adherence to the statu guo. Third, CARP's placement under the perview of one of the ministries does not give it the
status nor sufficient authority to influence inter-ministerial decisions, nor even, those in the ministry to which it is
attached.
3.     Functional Development. There are also a number of functional issues that have also constrained CARP's
emergence as the credible leader of the NARS in Sri Lanka. These issues include:
(a)    CARP has been charged with research planning and coordination without control over funds. This
typically leads to failure of a council such as CARP to undertake its responsibility of directing
research policy and influencing the research agenda
(b)    The most important priority for CARP, following its formation nine years ago, was to assist each
research institute to complete its own Status Review Report (SRR) and from that develop a
National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP) that would provide the fundamental framework for
policy, strategy, planning and financing of the NARS. While it took at least four years to complete
most of the SRRs, a draft NARP was only completed in 1996, and has yet to be cleared by the
Council. This has meant that CARP has never been in a position to fulfill four of its most
ESDAR. Strategic Issues for Agricultural Research Policy to 2000 and Beyond. Draft. November 1996



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
important functions, i.e. to advice Government on planning and execution of agricultural research,
to formulate national agricultural research policy and priorities, to define the overall aims and
scope of agricultural research, and to make recommendations to Government Departments of
Finance and Planning on priorities and funding.
(c)    The INFORM and CADMAR information and planning systems have achieved a great deal in
terms of developing databases on research resources, research planning and programming in the
NARS of Sri Lanka. However, neither has been used to achieve the ultimate function of providing
information from which CARP can make recommendations to Government on the financial,
manpower and physical resources required by agricultural research institutions.
(d)    The contract research program was very slow in starting and research quality was initially very
uneven, but subsequently improved. The program, however, did not clearly promote or focus on
inter-institutional research and did not give sufficient encouragement to the participation of the
universities, private sector and other national and international agencies, thus not fulfilling some
of CARP's other functions.
(e)    There has been an explosion in information technology and communications developments during
the course of the project. Insufficient emphasis was given to and advantage taken of this
phenomenon in improving information gathering and distribution under the library improvement
sub-component. A computerized information network, centered in CARP, would have provided
invaluable support to the NARS while also fulfilling CARP's functions of promoting and
facilitating excellence in agricultural research, acting as a channel of communication between
agricultural research and Government and providing special scientific services.
Future Development of CARP
4.     Institutional development. There is little prospect that all of the institutional issues mentioned above will
be resolved. CARP's influence must come from the quality of its staff and the professional respect earned from its
advice. It is therefore important that the CARP be staffed with highly qualified and committed persons to
effectively carry out its functions and gain credibility. To achieve this objective, consideration should be given to a
greater degree of autonomy for CARP (some would argue this for the whole NARS) and to the future composition
of CARP in relation to its mandate and function. CARP would have greater autonomy if it was placed at a higher
level of Government control. CARP also needs regular staff appraisal systems that explicitly recognize merit and
provide incentives to its staff. The future composition of CARP is also a very important issue. A reasonable balance
was envisaged in the CARP as clearly spelled out in the SAR, but the participation of the non-line ministries and the
production sector has been eroded over time. It is proposed that the composition of the Council be modified to
ensure broader representation of their clientele in the governing board to more closely approximate the proportions
envisaged when the CARP was first conceived.
5.     Functional development. CARP and the GOSL must quickly address the functional issues cited above.
In addition, CARP should focus on reviewing and proposing any necessary changes to the NARS to improve
effectiveness and efficiency, given the present complexity of the NARS. Examples of broader issues that CARP and
the GOSL night address are:
(a)    CARP should provide a national forum for setting research priorities and channeling funds to
priority areas. However, without control of some of the funds, it is unlikely that CARP would
have a significant impact on the research agenda or performance. Therefore, it is important that



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
CARP be free to solicit funds from a wide range of sources and allocate funds, mostly through
competitive bidding. CARP should have full autonomy to contract research to a wide range of
public and private sector institutes, including sometimes foreign institutions;
(b)    the value and possibilities for increased autonomy of the NARS, in terms of individual institutes
being conceptually and legally outside the general framework of the civil service (statutory
bodies) with constituent membership of the NARS and governed by independent councils; this
would allow administrative flexibility to set financial remuneration and conditions of service
which would benefit recruitment and retention of highly qualified staff;
(c)    the scope for down-sizing the research system (physical resources) and upgrading quality of
research;
(d)    the possibility of developing a more effective functional model for small country agricultural
research;
(e)     opportunities to finance agricultural research from  sources other than general government
revenue; and
(f)     development of personnel policies and plans for improvement of conditions, incentives,
performance and job satisfaction of scientists working in the NARS.
The above list is not intended to be definitive but to illustrate examples of issues which CARP could consider in
improving the NARS of Sri Lanka.



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
Agricultural RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1778-CE)
Statistical Information on Trends in Agricultural and Fisheries Production During 1987-1994
Table 1: Volume Index of Agricultural Production 1987-94
(Base period: 1977-1979)
Item                    1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992     1993      1994
Tea                    103.91   110.54   100.61   113.33   117.26    87.12   112.94   117.98
Rubber                  80.40    80.78    73.07    73.77    68.55    70.06    68.77    69.30
Coconut                107.09    90.31   118.30   118.30   102.04   107.27   102.79   121.94
Paddy                  116.38   135.46   138.84   138.84   130.62   128.02   140.60   146.78
Highland Crops         141.69   149.83   137.65   174.39   170.79   134.65   151.16   149.92
Livestock & Products    114.47   136.05   140.67   137.25   143.55   144.52   147.85   149.18
Minor Export Crops     101.98   103.37   101.21   112.02   123.07   132.84   157.66   158.88
OVERALL INDEX          113.69   124.54   115.43   131.57   130.00   119.08   132.14   135.91
Source: Sri Lanka Bureau of Census
Table 2. Fish Production in Sri Lanka (Mt)
Item              1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994
Coastal          149,278   155,099   157,411   134,132   159,151   163,168   169,900
Offshore           4,259     4,425     8,155    11,666    15,080    22,000    33,000
Inland            36,465    38,012    39,720    31,265    23,832    21,000    18,000
TOTAL            190,002   197,536  205,286   177,063   198,063   206,168   220,900
Source: Sri Lanka Bureau of Census



Appendix C
Page I of 9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1776-CE)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
I .    At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP Mission' visited Sri Lanka from 7.23 October 1996 to meet
with officials of research Institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Forestry (MOALF), Ministry of Public
Administration, Plantation Industries and Parliamentary Affairs, Ministry of Livestock Development and Rural
Industries, Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and Ministry of Higher Education concemed with the
Implementation of the above project and the Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) and the Project
Management Unit (PMU) to obtain relevant Information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for this project. Field visits were made to the Coconut Research Institute (CRI), Sugarcane Research Institute
(SRI), Field Crops Research Development Institute (FCRDI), Department of Export Agriculture (DEA), Veterinary
Research Institute (VRI), Horticulture Research Development Institute (HORDI), Tea Research Institute (TRI),
National Aquatic Resources Agency (NARA), the Post-graduate Institute of Agriculture (PGIA) at the University of
Peradenlya and two regional Research Centres of the Department of Agriculture (DOA) at Maha Illuppallama and
Bandarwela. Meetings were held with directors and scientists and new facilities constructed under the project were
Inspected.
2.     The mission wishes to thank all staff of the PMU and the centres visited for giving generously of their time,
Information and assistance with the meetings, field visits and preparation of the ICR for this project. The preliminary
findings and views presented In this draft Aide-Memoire reflect those of the mission, based on discussions with staff of
contres visited In project areas and from prior consultation of project documents at World Bank. The Aide-Memoire has
been amended to take Into account points raised in a final wrap-up meeting on October 23, 1996.
B BACKGROUND
3.     The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) requested assistance from  the International Development
Association (IDA) to flnance the Agricultural Research Project (ARP). The policy framework for the project
derived from the Government's document, "National Agricultural, Food and Nutrition Strategy" which
recommended the establishment of CARP In order to strengthen agricultural research, ensuring coordination among
research instittites In the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and advising Government on research
strategy, planning, priorities and funding,
C. THE PROJECT
4.     The project was prepared in October 1985 by a team of GOSL experts, assisted by the International Service
for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), under the supervision of an Agricultural Research Group formed for this
purpose. The project was appraised by a joint IDA and Agency for Technical Cooperation of the Federal Republic of
I      Drs. D.A*lvory (Mission Leader) and M.J Potts (Research Management Specialist, Consultant)



Appendix C
Page 2 of 9
Germany (GTZ) mission in February 1986. Project effectiveness was delayed until January 1988 due to delays in
obtaining the cofinancing agreement with GTZ and approval of the Act for establishing CARP.
5.      The rationale for the project was to provide the necessary direction to Sri Lanka's land and water based
research to overcome the problems arising from the fragmentation of research among several ministries who have their
own vested interests to protect and to move towards an integration of research efforts and develop a national research
strategy which would remove imbalances in overall national research and the relative neglect of research in priority
areas. The principal goal of the project was to raise farmer and fisherfolk incomes by increasing agricultural and fishery
production through the development of improved plant varieties and animal and fish breeds, improved cultural and
husbandry practices and farming/fisheries systems aimed at responding to industry needs within the framework of
improved resource sustainability and environmental responsibility. The principal elements of the project were: (i)
establishment of CARP with appropriate authority to formulate, through NARP, an overall strategy for research and to
set national research policy and priorities for allocation of funds for phased implementation of research programmes;
(ii) provision of infrastructure, equipment, machinery and vehicles and library development at research institutions; (iii)
staff development and technical assistance; (iv) introduction of a contract research programme; (v) establishment of a
research planning cell and project management unit; (vi) provision for incremental staff and operating costs; (vii)
introduction of research planning and evaluation procedures; and (viii) improvement of research-extension linkages.
D. MISSION FINDINGS
Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.      The nine-year project became effective in January 1988 and is scheduled to be closed on December 31, 1996.
The Agricultural Research Project (ARP) has a national perspective and has provided assistance to 10 national
institutes, a research centre for export crops, one university and 7 regional research centres and their associated sub-
stations. Two interim project reviews were held in October 1991 and April 1994, a little later than scheduled.
Project Costs
7.      Of the total IDA Credit of SDR15.40 million (US$18.60 million), SDR11.41 million (US$16.16 million) had
been disbursed to the GOSL at September 22, 1996. A total of SDR2.6 million (US$3.22 million) of the Credit was
cancelled. The undisbursed Credit at September 22, 1996 was SDRI.32 million (US$1.90 million), which is not
expected to be fully disbursed by Credit closure on December 31, 1996, or following processing of outstanding claims
up to April 1997, for expenditure incurred prior to Credit closure.
8.      Total project cost at September 1996 is estimated at Rs948.38 million (US$18.35 million) (refer table 1),
which is 30% above the original estimated project cost of Rs727.21 million (US$26.55 million), due to a 104%
devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar, and is 31% below the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms. A
significantly higher proportion of expenditure was incurred on fellowships and training than originally proposed and
lower expenditure on contract research and incremental staff and operating (Table 1). IDA has financed a higher than
expected proportion (80%) of the total project costs (Table 2) and utilisation of the Credit has always lagged behind
projected disbursements (Table 3).
Physical Resource Development
9.      Incremental staff. The project provided funding to position extra key staff at research institutes/stations (129
research officers and technical staff and 40 support staff), staff the newly created CARP (21 staff), the PMU (23 staff)
and a Headquarters Planning Cell (5 staff) in the DOA. However, the Headquarters Planning Cell was disbanded in
January 1994 with the restructuring of the DOA. The majority of incremental positions were filled and all positions will



Appendix C
Page 3 of 9
be retained and additional salaries absorbed into the GOSL budget following project completion. A recurring problem
occurred with filling positions for agricultural economists. Most institutes/stations now have more balanced research
teams (scientific disciplines and technicians), but future consideration has to be given to increasing positions for
agricultural economists and biometricians and reducing the number of support staff.
10.    Civil works. A programme of construction of new facilities (laboratories, offices and libraries [20], ancillary
facilities [28], glass/screen houses [10], staff residences [143], electrical and communication systems [139], farm
development [19] and water supplies [30]) and renovation of existing facilities [62] for research institutes/stations and
CARP was initiated under ARP. The civil works programme has been delayed, according to the original project
schedule, but by September 1996, about 93% of all civil works have been completed with most of the remainder to be
completed by end of October 1996. Delays were caused by civil unrest and shortages of cement and steel reinforcing
during 1988-89. Supervision of this programme has been good and design and quality of construction appreciated by
recipient institutes/stations.
11.    Equipment and vehicles. An extensive programme to provide new key equipment to institutes/stations was
undertaken by the project. Some 593 items of laboratory equipment (heating & cooling equipment, balances,
glass/water treatmnent equipment, meters/analytical equipment, optical equipment, crushing/grinding/mixing equipment,
centrifuges, laminar flow chambers, soil sieves/others and spares) were purchased. In addition, an extensive array of
office equipment (661 items), including typewriters, photocopiers, calculators, computer hardware and software, fans
and air-conditioners, communication equipment and miscellaneous items, was provided. Equipment purchases mostly
exceeded original estimates. The DOA was the biggest recipient of laboratory and office equipment. Many of the
institutes are now well equipped, but the DOA institutes and stations are still under-equipped. The internal distribution
of equipment to the DOA was not according to the original needs assessment. Vehicles supplied included 16 cars, 24
doublecab pick-ups, 12 passenger vans, 3 buses, 32 motorcycles and 41 bicycles and farm vehicles included 16 tractors
and 14 other items. Vehicle purchases were generally in line with the original estimates.
12.    Operational. Funds were provided for incremental operational expenses consequent to the incremental staff
employed under the project. Expenditure was less than originally estimated.
Human Resource Development
13.    Long-term training. Major emphasis has been given to human resource development. The original proposal
was to provide 26 Ph.D and 76 M.Sc./M.Phil fellowships for long-term training for staff of institutes/stations in selected
disciplines, based on an identified needs assessment at the time of project preparation. All Ph.D fellowships and 50 of
the M.Sc./M.Phil fellowships were to be undertaken at overseas universities, with 26 M.Sc./M.Phil fellowships to be
undertaken in Sri Lanka, mostly at PGIA of the University of Peradeniya. It was proposed that all fellowships would be
taken up by the fifth year of the project. The overseas fellowship programme was greatly exceeded with 36 and 107
staff selected for Ph.D and M.Sc./M.Phil training at overseas institutions, respectively, and 29 local M.Sc./M.Phil
training. All staff undertaking local training participated in the short-term overseas training programme (refer para. 14).
In fact many more staff returned with Ph.D qualifications due to their conversion of M.Sc./M.Phil training from their
own or external sponsorship. Problems with the programme included a significant number of staff (6 Ph.D and 10
M.Sc./M.Phil candidates) not returning to Sri Lanka (particularly from USA) and many staff undertaking local training
that have not completed well beyond the allocated two years.
14.    Short-term  training. An extensive programme of both overseas and local short-term training was also
provided. It was proposed that 77 foreign and 33 local three-month training programmes for both scientific and
technician staff and 5 study tours for selected CARP staff would be provided to meet critical training needs. The short-
term training programme was also greatly expanded, with a total of 189 awards, 134 for overseas and 55 for local
training. There has been no assessment of the value of this short-term training, but about 36% of the overseas awards



Appendix C
Page 4 of 9
were for periods of less than one month and some for only a few days and therefore of questionable value. In addition
the project sponsored attendance of research staff at local seminars, workshops and conferences.
Technical Assistance
15.    Technical assistance was seen as essential for planning and implementation of parts of the project. Some 124
person-months (pm) of technical assistance was proposed, 54 pm for expatriate assistance and 70 pm for local
consultants. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany (under GTZ) agreed to provide a grant for the
technical assistance requirements during the first three years of the project. Expatriate assistance was expected to be
used to assist the departments/ institutions/ research stations with research planning and budgeting, research
management, research evaluation and CARP administration and management, as well as an identified priorities to
develop pasture and fodder and farming systems research. Local assistance was to be used for assistance to
institutions/research stations and CARP in the preparation of NARP, review and approval of annual research plans and
evaluation of research work. GTZ provided assistance under the project until 1992, but followed this with two
subsequent phases of independent funding to continue assistance to CARP.
16.    Most of the technical assistance was focused on the development of tools to assist management in providing
an integrated set of information on personnel, budgets and research experiments, the Information System for
Agricultural Research Managers (INFORM), and for defining research priorities, the Composite Approach to Decision
Making in Agricultural Research (CADMAR). INFORM was developed during 1988/89 with technical assistance from
ISNAR. All institutes are now capable of inputting information but appear incapable of analysing the data. The
effectiveness and utility of INFORM is not fully accepted and appreciated by the research institutes. Such a tool is
valuable for research policy development and planning at both an institute and national level. One drawback, however,
is that data inputs are for the proposed budget and proposed experiments, not the actual budget and actual experiments.
CADMAR involves a eight-step process. CADMAR took a very long time to develop, but the first steps have now been
successfully used in a number of institutes, but others have had no involvement with it. High priority must be given to
introducing and using CADMAR as a research planning tool in all institutes/research centres.
17.    There has been a lack of emphasis given in technical assistance to preparation of the Status Review Reports
and NARP. Local technical assistance was to be provided to assist with these tasks but was little used. The preparation
of NARP is vital for CARP to fulfil its function in recommending to the GOSL (particularly Finance and Planning
Departments) actions concerning policies, strategies, priorities and funding of the NARS. There was also no technical
assistance given to research on pasture and fodder crops and farming systems.
Contract Research
18.    The introduction of a programme of contract research was seen as an important component of the project,
aimed at providing flexible funding to research institutions and scientists to conduct specific research on
problems/activities identified as urgently needed to support agricultural development goals. Four broad types of
activities were to be funded: applied research to expand or initiate new research programmes; inter-ministry and inter-
departmental collaborative research; special research programmes to support more basic studies and agricultural
economic research; and adaptive research trials on farmers' fields. There was considerable delay in the initiation of this
programme, as a result of the concept being new to Sri Lanka, although guidelines were provided prior to project
effectiveness, and due to problems associated with the civil disturbances in 1988-89. The programme has been only
partially successful due to inadequate attention being given to the use of priority setting as a basis for selection and
preparation of contract research proposals, the lack of emphasis given to the original aims and types of activities



Appendix C
Page 5 of 9
envisaged in this programme, the very uneven quality and output of research undertaken2, and until more recently the
lack of an effective system established for monitoring and evaluation of the contract research programme.
Establishment, Functioning and Performance of CARP
19.    Establishment and functioning. In 1987, eight ministries, embracing 17 agencies, and including the Office of
the President were involved in agricultural research. Coordination between these organisations was difficult and
lacking. Two previous attempts had failed to set up a national umbrella body for agricultural research. An Act of
Parliament was enacted in December 1987 to set up CARP as a pre-condition of the project. Two Standing Committees
on Administrative Matters and on Research Programmes were set up. A third Standing Committee on Extension was
established in 1993. All committees have met approximately nine times each year. CARP was established with
appropriate authority to formulate, through a National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP), an overall strategy for
research and set national research policy and priorities for allocation of resources, recommend allocation of funds for
planned implementation of research programmes and strengthen critical linkages between research activities of
different institutions.
20.    Performance. CARP has had difficulty covering its mandate, with only a small staff which is still not
complete; a matter that needs urgent attention. The mandate has provided for action that has carefully nurtured an
improved relationship with the agricultural research organisations. The most important achievements of CARP to date
are its promotion of the two management tools, INFORM and CADMAR, for assisting institutes/research stations with
planning and priority setting, respectively (refer para. 16) and the establishment of a contract research programme.
However, the output of INFORM has not yet been used to advantage to analyse and change the allocation of national
resources for agricultural research and has provided little feedback to the research institutions for their planning
purposes (refer para. 31). While CADMAR has been well endorsed by the few organisations which have used it for
defining research priorities there are many organisations which have no experience or knowledge of CADMAR. One
further activity of CARP that has also been generally appreciated by commodity research institutes is an ongoing
internal review programme initiated under the project. For those institutes reviewed by CARP, there is now (but not at
first) general consensus that such reviews are to the institute's benefit. Further reviews of all organisations within the
NARS needs to be encouraged. In addition, CARP has completed studies on improving the conditions of service for
researchers and consolidating research facilities.
21.    A primary function of CARP was to prepare a NARP that was to be updated regularly. Several drafts have
been prepared, but none yet submitted to the Ministry. This has been a serious constraint. A govemment approved plan
is essential for reviewing research, setting priorities and advising government on policy; none of which have been done
adequately. It is impossible to evaluate CARP's performance within the context of the national interest. The NARP
needs to be completed urgently and the priorities for research made widely known. CARP has also been unable to
promote linkages between national and international institutions, which denies scientists the opportunity to keep abreast
of the latest technologies and methodologies in research.
22.    CARP's role in monitoring and evaluating research within the agricultural sector has been small. Reports from
research organisations have often been late or incomplete and CARP has not pursued the matter vigorously. CARP's
role to encourage cooperation between research organisations has not been actively pursued and only a relatively small
proportion of research carried out is of a cooperative nature. The use of research contracts has improved the situation
slightly.
2      Assessment of the Seasonal Adaptive Research Program of the DOA Funded by the CARP: A Comparison of
two Case Studies at RARDC, Makandura and FCRDI, Maha Illuppallama, S.K.D. Frank and F. Niranjan, CARP.



Appendix C
Page 6 of 9
Strengthening of Research Institutions
23.     The project has emphasized the development of physical and human resources. Very significant improvements
have been achieved in research capability and the work and residential environment for staff at institutions/ research
stations. Other aspects of institutional strengthening, particularly information gathering capability, the use of contract
research and the linkage of research with extension and farmers has been generally unsatisfactory.
24.     Research organisation. During the course of the project the DOA has had two restructurings. Firstly in 1994,
where the regional research centres were combined into three commodity institutes (Rice, Field Crops and
Horticulture). Secondly in 1996, the regional research stations not located at these institutes have been reinstated. These
restructurings have had an adverse effect on project implementation. In addition, the mandate and functioning of the
regional research centres is in some instances blurred with those of the commodity institute.
25.     Development of research capacity. The influence of the development of physical and human resources on
research capacity has been significant. Scientists generally considered their training appropriate in terms of subject and
level of training and equipment provided met key constraints to research. Consequently a greater volume and higher
quality of work is being carried out. The use of contract research (now totalling 237 projects) has provided operating
funds and allowed institutes to increase their research capacity. Most projects approved are, however, of low priority to
the institutes. There is a need for closer scrutiny of research proposals by CARP and research directors and a change of
emphasis towards the original types of activities proposed for funding (refer para. 18). The finalisation of NARP and
completion of priority setting across all institutions would help refocus research.
26.     Library facilities, through the provision of books, joumals, MICRO-ISIS technology and CD-ROM  from
CABI, have been greatly improved by the project, enabling scientists to better research their projects. However, a
national coordination library system is not yet in place and higher priority needs to be given to the completion of such a
system.
27.     Relevance and quality of research. In those institutes exposed to CADMAR there is a growing awareness,
acceptance and change to more demand-driven research thrusts and experiments that emphasizes a multi-disciplinary
approach to research rather than the previous disciplinary approach that emphasized the purely scientific aspect of
research. The use of CADMAR should be adopted more widely and scientists should visit farmers' fields as an
important adjunct to information coming from extension. The agricultural economists based at research stations should
also be more involved in setting priorities and participating in diagnostic survey teams. The overall research quality can
also be improved as an outcome of economists undertaking regional baseline data collection and analysis, comparative
analysis of farm production costs, and economic analysis of research results. There has been little effort to evaluate the
relevance of research in terms of its benefit to the farmer or country, either socially or economically. This is partially
due to a lack of socio-economists. Training of all scientific staff in simple on-farm research methodologies, including
the calculation of cost/benefit ratios, would be an advantage. This would also overcome the present problem of many
adaptive research projects being little more than on-station research in farmers' fields.
28.      The widescale increase in knowledge and skills of scientists, as a result of the project training programme,
should be used more effectively to improve research quality. Peer review of research proposals and findings is not
practised widely. Such reviews need to be institutionalised as does peer review during the course of a programme of
research, through for example monthly seminars. Many projects and some contract research have been a follow-on
from scientists' higher degree training programmes. Such research is not always a priority for Sri Lanka. Whilst some
upstream research needs to be encouraged to enhance scientists' capabilities, the national interest must take priority.
29.     There is presently a heavy emphasis on breeding and selection at most crop-based research stations. Although
new varieties have been released, with few notable exceptions, there has been little improvement in yield or quality.



Appendix C
Page 7 of 9
More emphasis needs to be placed on inter-disciplinary work aimed at specific problems or opportunities to improve
production in defined farming systems.
30.     Management of research. The Director or Deputy Director of research is usually responsible for research
policy and management at a research institution/centre. A significant number have visited overseas organisations, under
the short-term training programme, to review their research management procedures and receive some training.
However, there seems to have been relatively little benefit. For many institutions, particularly those not exposed to
CADMAR, the aims of research are poorly expressed and allocation of funds are usually according to discipline
demand. Full fledged training courses in management techniques are likely to be more beneficial than short-term visits.
31.     A major thrust of the project was to use INFORM as a management tool to aid the optimal use of staff and
funds. Developed by ISNAR in 1988/89, it is still not being fully utilised. A series of training courses have been given
since its inception and coordinators appointed in each research organisation. Use of the system has been poor; inputting
of data is time consuming, there has been little feedback from CARP, institutional coordinators have changed regularly
and there has been no training of coordinators on how to analyse and retrieve data for their own use. Many
organisations see the potential of INFORM and further training and feedback is required. Until this is achieved, the
allocation of resources for research within organisations can not be properly assessed in relation to established
priorities.
32.     Research - extension linkages. A major factor adversely affecting research-extension linkages during project
implementation was the devolution of the national extension service to the provinces. Previously research and extension
were organised on a regional basis. Presently regional research centres must deal with several provincial extension
services, because the research region partially crosses several provincial boundaries. Despite this fundamental problem,
a number of formal and informal mechanisms are in place to promote information exchange between research,
extension and farmers; Regional Technical Working Group Meetings, District Agricultural Committee meetings, on-
farm research trials, diagnostic teams, field days and exhibitions, radio talks and printed media. However, linkages
between research and extension are generally poor, except for those plantation crops that have their own extension
wing; although some of these institutes also recognize that better linkages are still required. There is a general
recognition by managers and scientists that these linkages need to be strengthened. Although improved research-
extension linkages were a project objective, the proposed activities to fund more adaptive research and establish
diagnostic teams did not result in significant improvements. The inclusion of specific training programmes in diagnostic
techniques and on-farm research would have been beneficial. The value of such training can be clearly seen at RARDC
- Banadarawela where there is frequent contact between researchers, extensionists and farmers as a result of training by
the International Potato Centre (CIP), SAPPRAD and UPWARD over the last 20 years.
Impact of Research on Agricultural Development
33.     There has been no attempt by any research institution to assess the impact of its research on agricultural
development. The CADMAR approach does attempt to estimate the additional ex ante benefits of innovations (new
technologies) resulting from proposed research thrusts. It is very important, however, for research institutions to
evaluate farmer acceptance and adoption of new technologies developed and promoted, but this has not been
undertaken. Indirect evidence, however, suggests that some specific constraints have been overcome and productivity
increased. For example, control of potato cyst nematode, development of leaf spot virus-free papaya, development of
inter-cropping systems (annual crops with sugarcane, and cinnamon and tea with rubber) to increase incomes during
establishment of long-term annual and perennial crops, and introduction of disease and pest resistant varieties as part of
IPM strategies, have all shown value in increasing production and farm incomes.



Appendix C
Page 8 of 9
Project Benefits
34.     Undoubtedly the greatest benefit of the project has been in the strengthening of research institutions within the
NARS of Sri Lanka. Significant improvements have been achieved in research staff capability due to the extensive
training programme and strategic improvements made to research facilities and support services and to the staff
accommodation. Little evidence exists that widescale improvements have occurred in farm production and household
incomes as a result of improved research capability. However, there has been a significant recent change in research
focus to multi-disciplinary research aimed at responding to more specific opportunities to improve farm production and
incomes. But research is necessarily long-term and it will take some time to achieve widescale industry benefits.
Project Sustainability
35.     The initiatives and support given by the project to strengthening the NARS appears sustainable. Incremental
staffing positions will be absorbed into the regular budgets of institutions. CARP has also indicated that budget support
for the contract research programme will continue. It is indicated by the GOSL that total budget allocation, as a
percentage of GDP, for national research will increase. There are considerable differences in the budgetary situation
among research institutions of the NARS. It is important that with any real increase in budget allocation to the NARS,
consideration is given to holding present staffing levels, but increasing the proportion of technical staff and reducing
support staff on a needs base, and increasing the proportion of budget allocated to operations, maintenance and capital
development. Consideration should also be given to the consolidation (reduction) of research facilities as a means of
increasing cost effectiveness.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
36.     The Bank undertook regular missions to supervise implementation of the project. Supervisory mission reports
indicate that the missions undertook detailed reviews of implementation progress of the project and while indicating
deficiencies in implementation gave helpful and constructive advice to overcome such problems. The GOSL has
appreciated the flexibility of the Bank in adjusting project targets in accordance with changing priorities and credit
savings, during project implementation. The approval of retroactive financing for establishment and staffing of the
PMU, an initiation of the civil works and training programmes prior to project effectiveness, changes in the size of the
project imprest account and temporary increase in IDA's share of project costs during the 1991-92 oil crisis, were also
beneficial.
Borrower Performance
37.     The PMU gave continued high priority and attention to implementation of the project as proposed. The
success of the civil works, equipment and vehicle purchase and training programmes are due to the close relationships
developed between the PMU and the Bank and the dedication of the PMU. Several factors, however, both within and
outside the control of the GOSL and PMU, such as civil unrest during 1988-89, early delays in the civil works
programme due to lack of construction materials and delays in awarding contracts and slow approval and filling of
incremental staff positions, delayed project implementation. The large delays in the preparation of Status Review
Reports by research institutes and the inability of CARP to finalize the NARP are also critical factors in CARP not
achieving its desired position as a pre-eminent body in policy development and coordination of national research.
Although contract research was a new concept to Sri Lanka, CARP has also been unable to establish a fully effective
system of contract research that is rigorously monitored and evaluated and is strategically relevant to identified
priorities and needs.



Appendix C
Page 9 of 9
Future Operational Plans
38.    The GOSL has not yet prepared their assessment of the project as required by the Bank or their plans for
future development of the NARS beyond project completion. The mission has provided guidelines to the GOSL for
preparation of their completion report.
Lessons Learned
39.    The most important outcome of the project has been that while there has been considerable institutional
strengthening, there has been much less emphasis on ensuring a fully effective and functioning research system that is
responding to the needs of farmers and industry sector development. There are a number of specific lessons to be drawn
from the implementation and outcome of this project, including:
(a)    The CARP which was seen as an essential coordinating and policy body to make the diverse set of
research activities in the Sri Lankan NARS more effective and efficient, has still far to go in
achieving the functions envisaged for it; the leadership and credibility of CARP needs more time to
be established and is very dependent on developing a strategic vision for the future (through the
NARP) and a strong voice and influence at the highest levels of government;
(b)    The contract research programme has not been particularly successful. However, it provides an
essential means for sponsoring inter-institutional research, utilising the greatly under-utilised research
resources of the universities, promoting joint research with the private sector and encouraging
strategic and upstream research in key areas and should be continued;
(c)    Research-extension linkages remained weak as neither the project design of the ARP nor the Second
Agricultural Extension Project (also financed by the World Bank), incorporated specific activities
that would functionally strengthen research-extension linkages; more funds for applied research and
the simple establishment of diagnostic teams under ARP were insufficient interventions without
appropriate staff training, systematic procedures for needs identification, active participation by
extension and farmers and good M&E procedures;
(d)    While the development of managerial and planning tools, such as INFORM and CADMAR have
engendered significant positive changes in priority setting, a research thrust rather than a discipline
based approach, multidisciplinary research, and greater client accountability, more emphasis has to
be given to training research managers and improving M&E of research; and
(e)    Insufficient attention was given in the project to the development of strong and effective information
and communication systems; the establishment of the information service AGRINET was an
important initiative, but not sufficient.
E. FOLLOW-UP
40.    The mission will complete the preparation of the ICR for this project for submission to World Bank by
December, 1996. Final project costs and Credit disbursements will have to be finalized after Credit closure. The GOSL
must prepare their final assessment of the project according to the guidelines provided by the mission (refer para. 38).
The amended Aide-Memoire will be attached with a copy of the GOSL Project Completion Report to the IR prepared
by the mission for submission to the World Bank.



Appendix D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1778-CE)
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Agricultural Research Project (ARP), became Credit Effective on 6 January, 1988 and closed on schedule on 31
December, 1996. In the process, it has achieved and surpassed the physical targets set in the SAR in respect of the
project components of Civil Works, Manpower Development, Procurement and Technical Assistance, reached
93.3% of target in respect of Incremental Staff Appointments, and saturated the country capacity for Contract
Research in the Agricultural sector.
During this period, the value of the rupee depreciated from the appraisal figure of US $ 01 = Rs. 27.40 in 1986 to
from US I = SLRs.34 in January 1988 at project start-up, to US $ 1 = SLRs.57 in December, 1996 at project
closure, while the Dollar slid from SDR 1= US 1.20 when declared Credit Effective (January 1988), to SDR I = US
$ 1.45 towards the end of the project period. Consequently, disbursement became more difficult than expected at
appraisal, and against a target appraisal figure of Rs.727.20 m, the project closed with a rupee expenditure of
SLRs.1,009.41 m, i.e. 138.8% of the appraisal estimate, but resulted in a $ disbursement by IDA of only US 16.88
m, or 90.8% of the provision made of US $ 18.6m.
The project made a slow start in 1988 due to civil unrest in the country, and this unsatisfactory situation persisted
throughout 1989. In 1990, when conditions normalised, ARP's programmes were re-scheduled for completion by
31 December, 1996 and activity proceeded smoothly since, except for periodic delays in Civil Works caused by
shortages of construction materials such as steel and timber. University closure till 1992, resulted in a retardation in
the filling-up of Incremental Staff vacancies, but the situation was also rectified in 92/93, a little behind schedule.
During implementation, the project design in the SAR has been followed closely, with the Technical Assistance
Programme augmented by the addition of Stages II & III to the SAR commitment made towards the ARP by the
GTZ, and the inclusion of expanded targets of Civil Works, Procurement and Manpower Development with the
approval of visiting Supervision Missions and the two mid-term project reviews. A few deletions on the Civil Works
programmes have also been made to accommodate changes that had taken place during the intervening period.
ARP awarded sixty six Civil Work tenders, and all construction activity on contracts given out by PMU were
completed and handed over to the respective agencies by end 1996. SAR requirements have been fully met, and in
addition, the following were constructed: (I) DEA Matara - Laboratory, (2) DEA Narammala - Laboratory, Ix
Grade IV, 2x Grade III, Ix Grade II and Ix Grade I Quarters, Dormitory & Water Tank, (3) DEA Nilambe - Grade
III Quarters, and (4) HARTI Colombo - Library.
Under the Procurement programme, Laboratory equipment, numbering 701 items which included heating and
cooling equipment, balances, water treatment equipment, crushing/grinding/mixing equipment, centrifuges, laminar
flows etc. were procured, supplied, installed and commissioned for use by the project. Vehicles provided included
16 cars, 24 double-cabs, 12 passenger vans, 3 buses, 32 motor-cycles, 41 bicycles, 16 tractors, farm vehicles and
other agricultural implements. Office equipment totaling 726 items, included personal computers, software, printers
typewriters, photocopiers, calculators, fans, air-conditioners, facsimiles, communication equipment and other
miscellaneous items of office needs were provided, and Books and Joumals were supplied for building up several
libraries. Additionally, CD-ROM's "Hort", "Pests" and "Beast" were supplied to the Council for Agricultural
Research Policy library to provide much needed support for researchers in these fields.



ii
Appendix D
ARP's Manpower Development Programme provided 212 fellowships, of which 26 fellows were for Ph.D. training
abroad, 76 to M.Sc/M.Phil level (50 overseas and 26 locally), and 110 short-term training placements (77 overseas
and 33 locally). With the addition of "expanded" programmes, final achievement in terms of SAR targets were -
133% at Ph.D. level, 186% at M.Sc/M.Phil and 159% on the Short-term programme.
On December 31, 1996, a total 256 Contract Research Projects totaling in value Rs.151,145,399 have been
awarded, of which, 136 have been completed, 62 await terminal assessment, 48 projects operational, with 10
projects being inactive or canceled. Actual disbursement during this period has been only Rs.84.55m. It is seen
therefore, that the appraisal estimate of Rs. 154.16 m., on this project component has been achieved in terms of the
value of the awards made by CARP, but that actual expenditure incurred has fallen short of expectation.
93.3% of all Incremental Staff positions were filled despite a slow start, and the GTZ-CARP Technical Assistance
Programme has helped considerably in providing Research Management support to the entire NARS. Stage I of this
programme identified in the SAR was fully disbursed, and so has also Stage 11, with a Stage III currently in progress
helping the NARS with CADMAR and in the building-up of an Agricultural data-base for CARP.
Research fall-out from the ARP to the farmer have been many, including the release of high yielding varieties of
seed paddy such as BG 300, paddy varieties for the Low-country wet zone, high yielding varieties of other grains &
pulses and fruits such as papaw, several varieties of virus resistant fruit plants, biological control methods for pests
of sugarcane and the evolution of new superior varieties of poultry suited for local farming conditions. Agricultural
production and productivity in Sri Lanka of several commodities including Paddy, Tea, Coconut and Sugar is on
the increase, with the fall in Rubber production attributed to the loss of an average of 2000 ha/annum of rubber
lands during the last 15 years, mainly to the urbanisation process.
Incremental Staff provided by the project are being retained in full on the regular cadre of all agencies where such
appointments have been made by the ARP and Contract Research is being maintained at full strength by CARP even
after Project Closure. It is unlikely, however, that components of Manpower Development and Procurement would
continue at levels maintained during the project period, but what has now been provided is all being put to good use
and has strengthened NARS to a level where the research output to the farmer could be invaluable.



Appendix D
Page 1 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1778-CE)
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PROJECT DESIGN [CR 1776 - CE]
The Agricultural Research Project (ARP) was a tri-partite arrangement between the International Development
Agency (IDA), Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), which sought to
assist the government's agricultural development goals by finding better quality solutions to farmer's problems;
additionally, a component on institution building was built-in to improve the cost effectiveness of the research
system.
The project consisted of six components, namely: (I) Civil Works, (2) Procurement of Goods, (3) Technical
Assistance, (4) Contract Research, (5) Incremental Staff, and (6) Operating Costs, with the objective of raising
farmer's incomes by increasing agricultural production through the development of better varieties, improving
husbandry practices and by developing farming systems which were targeted to responding to farner's regionally
specific problems.
The strategy for achieving these objectives were to -
I.     establish a Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) to recommend to GOSL actions concerning
research strategy, policies, priorities, and funding;
2.     strengthen research station facilities by way of civil works, equipment and library development;
3.     improve the technical capacity of researchers through manpower development and technical assistance;
4.     introduce contract research program to finance research activities;
5.     establish a Headquarters Research Planning Cell i-i Department of Agriculture (DOA) and a Project
Management Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Agri. ulture to coordinate the project implementation;
6.     provide for "Incremental Staff' and operating costs;
7.     introduce research planning evaluation procedures; and
8.     improve research linkages.
PROJECT APPRAISAL
At appraisal the total value of the project was US $ 26.5 million, of which IDA contributed US $ 18.6 million; the
Federal Government of Germany, through its Technical Assistance programme, GTZ provided a grant of 0.8 million
US $, and GOSL was to contribute equivalent of US $ 7.1 million, based on an exchange rate of US $ 01 = Rs.
27.40.
The original project design was subsequently modified with the Federal Republic of Germany adding a Stage 11 and
a Stage II to its original commitment on the technical assistance programme as detailed in the SAR.



Appendix D
Page 2 of 12
At Appraisal, it was noted that research infrastructure by way of laboratory and office buildings, and housing for
staff, was in general, inadequate, with the availability of laboratory equipment at some places being less than
minimal; most libraries were inadequately provided to support good research. Insufficiencies in manpower
availability were also seen in places, with the need to upgrade the level of staff training in research methodology
being apparent. Appraisal also took note of shortages in the availability of operating funds.
The project, therefore, attempted to meet these deficiencies and constraints as follows:-
A sum of $ 5.2 m was provided for Civil Works which included laboratory, administrative and library facilities,
glasshouses, screenhouses, storage and workshop facilities; utilities such as water supply, electricity,
communication and sewage facilities; 186 units of staff housing, research farm development and the
rehabilitation/improvement to a few of the existing buildings.
US $ 2.5 m was granted for the Procurement of much needed laboratory equipment including analytical and optical
equipment, centrifuges, balances and other standard laboratory supplies, 87 vehicles, office & farm equipment, tools
etc.. Books, journals and equipment were provided to strengthen libraries.
To strengthen technical capacity of scientists, Manpower Development was allocated $ 3.8 m to provide 212
fellowships - 26 at Ph.D. level, 76 for M.Sc. training and 110 short-term placements.
US $ 0.8 m was provided for Technical Assistance as a grant by the Federal Republic of Germany to support 54
man months of expatriate consultants in the fields of Research Planning and Budgeting, Research Management,
Research Evaluation, CARP Administration & Management, Pasture & Fodder Crops, Farming Systems and 70 mm
of local consultants.
The Contract Research programme was funded with US $ 4.4 m for Applied Research, Interministerial and
Collaborative Research, Special Research Programmes and Adaptive Research.
Funds totaling US $ 2.2 m was earmarked as Incremental & Operating Costs to pay for additional scientific,
technical and administrative staff needed and meet the cost of project operation.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
3.1    Financial Performance:
Exchange rates of the rupee at appraisal stood at US l= SLRs.27.40, but this figure changed throughout the
implementation period from US I = SLRs.34 at the commencement of the project to US $ 1 = SLRs.57 in
December, 1996 and consequently, disbursement in US $ terms was more difficult that originally allowed for at
appraisal. Despite Rupee expenditure at Credit Closing date of SLRs.1,009,409,000 being 138.8% of that of the
appraisal estimate, (Rs.727,200,000), $ disbursement by IDA of US 16.88 ml has been only 90.8% of the provision
made of US $ 18.6m. Physical targets have, however exceeded SAR figures for Civil Works, Manpower
Development, Goods and Technical Assistance, and 93.3% of all Incremental Staff positions identified at Appraisal
had been filled, albeit a little later than appraisal expectation.
The filling of Incremental Staff positions made a very slow start as appointments could not be made due to unsettled
conditions at the Universities till 1992. This position was subsequently corrected from 1992 onwards, but
disbursement of funds provided for incremental staff salaries have lagged behind expectation as provisions made for
salary payments during the period 1988-1992, remained largely unutilised.
Component-wise, the only item on which operationally expenditure fell well below that of expectation was Contract
Research, where against an estimated expenditure of Rs 154.16 m., only Rs.84.55m, or 54.85% of estimate had
been spent by credit closing. Reasons for heavy under expenditure on this item are attributed to:
1Upto October, 1996. Disbursements for Nov & Dec 96 not available at the time of writing.



Appendix D
Page 3 of 12
1.      Estimate made at appraisal being high, with no reliable data available at appraisal to guide estimate
preparation;
2.      Initial reluctance on the part of research workers to undertake contract research at many organizations was
due perhaps to Contract Research being new to this country and researchers had no previous experience of
carrying out such operations;
3.      Late start with Contract Research due to unfavourable working conditions in 1988 and 1989, followed by
acute staff shortages till 1992.
ARP being a project worked around a rupee budget, disbursement on each of its components against its appraisal
estimate on the Credit Closing date of 31 December, 1996 is portrayed in figure 1, below:-
Fig 1: ARP Expenditure on 31 Dec 1996
350       -- - - -                   --------------- -
S~300-
e  250 -
6  200                                                       * SAR
150 -                                                    0 Achievement
O
'~'100 
0                    4
42~ ~ ~~0                         
0~~~~~
Project Cornponernt
*Expenditure by Project Closing date (30 April, 1997) is anticipated to increase marginally on
figures depicted above.
Unit costs have also been pegged down below levels anticipated at appraisal through management measures taken
by the PMU, notably the following:-
1.      The training programme was conducted entirely by the Management Unit incurring no expenditure on
external consultants,
2.      cost for the long-term overseas training programme was reduced with the introduction of split-training
prograrnmes, whereby scholars spend a period of their training programme locally and conduct field
operations on projects for thesis research. An additional benefit which accrued was that the training
received had a direct bearing on their research activities on retutc , and
3.      considerable savings were made on the procurement of laboratory equipment by evaluation offers on an
item-wise basis, instead of grouping bids. Item-wise procurement has also helped to ensure that each of the
goods procured were exactly what was needed by the end-user.



Appendix D
Page 4 of 12
Savings made by the introduction of measures outlines above with the components of Manpower Development and
Procurement, were re-utilised for part payment on expanded physical targets set for Manpower Development,
Procurement of Goods and Civil Works.
In the process of implementation, the project designed as detailed in the SAR has been followed closely, except for
the Technical Assistance Programme augmented in the manner already described and the inclusion of expanded
physical targets of Civil Works, Procurement and Manpower Development with the approval of visiting
Supervision Missions and the two mid-term project reviews. A few deletions in the Civil Works programmes have
also been made to accommodate changes that had taken place during the intervening 10-year period since appraisal.
3.2    Civil Works:
Civil Works operations commenced with the appointment of a firm of Architectural & Engineering Consultants in
1988 to prepare detailed drawings, BOQ's, Tender and Contract Documents and for supervision of works. With two
exceptions at PG1A Peradeniya and DEA Matale, made to accommodate the size of contracts, construction work at
any one site was grouped to facilitate supervision and contact management.
Construction work commenced in 1989 with three tenders being awarded during the year. It was not possible to
float more tenders and progress was slow even on these three tenders. Conditions improved in the country early
1990 and civil works gathered momentum. The programme was re-scheduled for completion by 31 December,
1996. Construction activity proceeded smoothly since then, except for periodic delays caused by temporary
shortages of construction materials such as steel and timber. Over the seven year period 1989 to 1995, sixty six
Civil Work tenders were awarded, and all construction activity on contracts given out by PMU were completed and
handed over to the respective agencies by end 1996.
At project appraisal, the total value of Civil Works including payments to the Consultants was Rs.142 m, but the
final cost of Civil Works amounted to Rs.328 m due mainly to successive devaluations of the Rupee during the
period of project operation, and because construction activities commenced two years later than planned for because
of disturbed conditions locally during 1988 and 1989. The following additional works were also undertaken:-
1.     DEA Matara            :       Laboratory
2.     DEA Narammala          :      Laboratory, INo. Grade IV, 2 Nos Grade III, I No. Grade II and I
No Grade I Quarters, Dormitory & Water Tank.
3.     DEA Nilambe            :      I No. Grade III Quarters
4.     HARTI Colombo          :      Library
Table I gives a summary of the Civil Work operations approved for the ARP, and the status of each contact under
their respective category as on 31 December, 1996 (Credit Closing Date):-



Appendix D
Page 5 of 12
Table 1: Summary of Civil Work conducted by the Agricultural Research Project-
Construction Type                Approved        Number in     Number in      Number        Remarks
number         completed      progress    remaining
1. Laboratories, Offices. Libraries     20          20                    0             0          All completed
2. Storage. Workshops. Cold Rooms. Garages.  28     28                    0             0           - do -
Sheds. Seed Storage
3. Glass Houses. Screen Houses           10         10                    0             0           - do -
4. Houses. Hostels. Circuit Bungalows    143        143                   0             0           - do -
5. Generators. Transformers, Electrical  124        121                   0             3           Items remaining
Supplies                                                                                            undone are all
"Force-account"2
6.Telephones. Radio Telephone Systems    15         15                    0             0           All completed
7. Renovations & Improvements to existing  62       61                    0             1           Item remaining
buildings.                                                                                          Force-accoun?
8.  Fencing.  Irrigation.   Roads   Land  20        19                    0             1           Item remaining
Development                                                                                         Force-account4
9. Water Supply & Distribution          31          30                    0             1           Item remaining
Force-account5
3.4     Procurements of Goods
Under this programme, much needed Laboratory & Office equipment, Library Books & Journals, Vehicles, Farm
Equipment and Agricultural Implements were provided by the project to agencies within its umbrella.
Laboratory equipment, numbering 701 items which included heating and cooling equipment, balances, water
treatment equipment, crushing/grinding/mixing equipment, centrifuges, laminar flows etc. were procured, supplied,
installed and commissioned for use by the project.
Vehicles provided included 16 cars, 24 double-cabs, 12 passenger vans, 3 buses, 32 motor-cycles, 41 bicycles, 16
tractors and farm vehicles and other agricultural implements.
Office equipment totaling 726 items, which included personal computers, software, printers typewriters,
photocopiers, calculators, fans, air-conditioners, facsimiles, communication equipment and other miscellaneous
items of office needs were provided under the ARP.
Books and Journals were provided for building up several libraries and additionally, CD-ROM's "Hort", "Pests" and
"Beast" were supplied to the Council for Agricultural Research Policy library to provide much needed support for
researchers in these fields.
3.5     Contract Research:
The Contract Research Programme (CRP) provides financial support for selected applied or adaptive research
projects at the agricultural research institutes and the universities for researchers working individually, or in
collaboration with each other. This programme which was initiated by the ARP with IDA's funding assistance, is
now being continued by Council for Agricultural Research Policy with the Treasury supporting this activity,
currently at the level of Rs.22 million, annually.
CRP expects, therefore, to have a large number of well documented research projects conducted by the National
Agricultural Research System (NARS) and aimed at increasing production in the relevant sector, having tangible
outputs.
2 DOA Giriandurukotte - Improvements to electrical distribution, DOA Batalagoda - 25# Mercury
Vapour Lamps & DOA Maha Illupalama - 25# Mercury Vapour Lamps.
3 VRI Gannoruwa - Improvements to piggery.
4 DOA Kurudana - Soil Conservation Measures.
5 DOA Batalagoda - 2 # Petrol driven water pumps.



Appendix D
Page 6 of 12
As of December 31, 1996, a total number of 256 Contract Research Projects totaling in value Rs. 151,145,399 have
been awarded of which 136 have been completed, 62 awaiting terminal assessment, 48 projects operational, with 10
projects being inactive or canceled. Actual disbursement during this period has been only Rs.84.55m. It is seen
therefore, that the appraisal estimate of Rs. 154.16 m., on this project component has very nearly been achieved in
terms of the value of the awards made by CARP, but that actual expenditure incurred on research has fallen far short
of expectations.
3.6     Manpower Development:
ARP's Manpower Development Programme provided at appraisal 212 fellowships, of which 26 fellows were to be
trained to Ph.D level abroad, 76 to M.Sc/M.Phil level of whom 50 were for overseas training and 26 locally, and
110 short-term training placements (77 overseas and 33 locally), and in addition, funded a number of seminars,
workshops and conferences at National levels. Table 2 given below presents the progress made with the Long and
Short-term Manpower Development programmes at Credit Closure.
Table 2: Summary of achievements on ARP's Ph.D Manpower Development Programmes:
Institution     # Approved,     # Retumed   # Retumed Failed   # Extended outside  # Did not return on
"Expanded" included.   Completed  to complete     ARP by sponsoring      completion.
Institution
DOA           13                 11          01                -                    01
DEA           03                 02                            -                    01
SRI           02                 02                            -
CRI           03                 03           -
TRI           02                 02           -                -
RR]           04                 04           -                -
VRI           05                 04           -                -                    01
NARA          04                 03           -                                     01
Totals        36                 31           01               -                    04
Table 3: Summary of achievements on ARP's M.Sc/M.Phil Training Programmes:
Institution     # Approved,       # Retumed       # Failed to  # Extended outside ARP by   # Did not retum on
"Expanded" included.  Completed       complete       sponsoring Institution    completion.
DOA           54                 38               -              10                       06
DEA           II                  10              -                                       01
SRI           08                 06               -              02
CRI           15                  13              -              01                       01
TRI           06                 04               -              02
RRI           12                 08               -              02                       02
VRI           10                  09              -              01 
DAPH         03                  03               -
NARA          13                  12              01
FOR           01                  -               -              01
HARTI        04                  03               -              01
Totals        137                 106             01             20                       10
3.7     Sri Lanka Council for Agricultural Research Policy
Prior to the establishment of the Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP) in 1987, agricultural research
activities in Sri Lanka were fragmented and spread over seven different ministries with inadequate linkages between
ministries and between ministries and research institutions. There was then no mechanism for coordinating research
efforts, identifying national research needs and for the establishment of priorities consistent with these needs.
Since it was founded, the Council has performed its mandated activity of improving research management, and
these efforts have now begun to have an impact on the performance of research agencies within the National
Agricultural Research System (NARS). The Council is the Coordinating body formulating policy guidelines for
agricultural research and acts as the umbrella organisation for the various agricultural research institutes. The
Council therefore represents NARS.



Appendix D
Page 7 of 12
A. Sri Lanka's National Agricultural Research System (NARS).
Agricultural research is now conducted in 12 institutes and 11 Centres within four ministries. These institutes make
up the NARS, as follows:-
Ministry of Agriculture Lands & Forestry (6 institutes and 1 I centres), Ministry of Public Administration, Plantation
Industries & Parliamentary Affairs (4 institutes), Ministry of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources (I institute) and
Ministry of Livestock Development & Rural Industries (I institute).
In addition, Agricultural Research is also carried out at the Postgraduate Institute of Agriculture (PGIA), and at the
faculties of Agriculture at the Universities of Peradeniya, Ruhuna, Colombo, Kelaniya, Jaffna and at the Eastern
University.
The NARS employed 545 scientists at the end of 1995, of whom nearly 60% were postgraduate trained, compared
with the position in 1987 when there were 505 research personnel, of whom only about 45% had postgraduate
training. The increase in the proportion of trained staff in the NARS is due largely to the impact of the Agricultural
Research Project, and this position is expected to improve even further in 1996 and 1997.
Instruments newly developed specifically for this purpose have been utilised and the fall-out from the most
important of these programmes with discernible achievements are:-
Emphasis on the need for Farming Systems Research has also been laid throughout this period leading to the
interplanting of coconut lands with crops such as banana and introduction of livestock, new farming systems such as
rubber interplanted with cardamon, and the interest in "rice-fish" culture.
B. The National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP):
A draft National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP) which seeks to provide information and guidelines on research
policy for the government has been prepared by the CARP Secretariat and
ready for presentation to the Council. A component on the visionary picture of the NARS for the next ten years has
also been added.
C. External Reviews of Research Institutes in the NARS:
External Reviews of the Tea, Rubber, and Sugar Research Institutes have been carried out, resulting in far
reaching recommendations on institutional structure, research management and priority setting, financing, building
of inter-institutional linkages, management of extension services and on identifying infra structural requirements.
External Reviews of the VRI and DEA have also been made and these reports will be presented to the Council,
shortly.
Much has already been accepted and are now in the implementation process; it is intended to conduct these external
reviews at all research institutes within the NARS.



Appendix D
Page 8 of 12
D. Research Planning within the NARS:
A programme has been successfully launched to identify the problems and constraints encountered by the end-users
of the findings of the research agencies within the NARS; thereafter, researchable problems are identified and
research thrusts are developed to cope.
The procedure introduced by CARP with technical assistance provided by the GTZ, termed the Composite
Approach in Decision Making in Agricultural Research (CADMAR) has enabled a few research institutes to
significantly improve priority setting and their research agenda.
Four research institutes, the VRI, CRI, HORDI and TRI are using CADMAR procedures in planning their applied
research activities and necessary assistance, guidance and training is being provided by CARP-GTZ.
This programme is being continued and will be expanded to cover other users within the NARS.
E. Management of Agricultural Research Projects in the NARS:
Through a programme termed Contract Research, CARP has provided additional operational funds to conduct
well documented, planned and result oriented research projects conducted in the NARS.
This programme has already resulted in a number of important findings in the field of Agronomy, Animal
Husbandry, Forestry, Fisheries and Aquaculture, which will have a positive impact on Agricultural Production in
this country.
Through this programme, CARP has helped to improve budgeting, progress monitoring and evaluation of individual
projects at research institute level and provide a new vision of agricultural research for the future.
F. Other Studies:
National Plant Quarantine Committee (NPQC):
The Council established a NPQC, and based on its findings it was decided to revise the Plant Protection Ordinance
and a revised Plant Protection Ordinance, now in draft form, is currently under consideration.
Information for Agricultural Research Managers (INFORM):
INFORM as developed by the CARP/GTZ Project (INFORM) is provided in structured, classified form  with an
easy retrieval system to help build an efficient and cost effective management system.
This system has been used to produce a "Directory of Research Personnel" within NARS as on 31 December, 1996
and a "Directory of Research Projects for the NARS" is currently being finalised.
3.8    GTZ Project on Promotion of Agricultural Research
Phase 1: Aug 1988 to Oct 1992
Funding - DM 1.6 million
Phase 2: Nov 1992 to Oct 1995
Funding - DM 1.8 million
Phase 3: Nov 1995 to Oct 1998
Funding - DM 2.1 million



Appendix D
Page 9 of 12
Project Activities (Phase 1):
a)     CARP Administration and Management.
The Council for Agricultural Research Policy was setup in December 1987. The project provided assistance in
developing the organization and proper procedures for the efficient functioning of CARP and its secretariat.
b)     Management Information System.
A Management Information System (MIS) is an analytical tool encompassing projects, personnel, finances and
procurements in a research organization. It provides organized information to research managers for facilitating
their planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation activities. The need for a MIS was clearly seen during the
project preparation and appraisal. An effective management information system inclusive of a programme
budgeting system (subsequently named INFORM) was developed, tested and introduced to the research
organizations. The following institutions adopted INFORM: TRI, RRI, CRI, SRI, VRI, DEA, NARA, FRD and the
Research Centres of the DOA.
c)     Setting Research Priorities.
The need for objective, formal, open and systematic methods for assessing research needs was recognized by
research managers. Although a number of methods were available their suitability for direct application to the Sri
Lanka situation was questioned. Consequently, a methodology called the Composite Approach to Decision Making
for Agricultural Research (CADMAR), was developed during the first phase.
d)     Status Review Reports:
The Agricultural Status Review Reports in respect of the operational areas of seven Regional Agricultural Research
Centres (RARC) of the Department of Agriculture and the Tea and Rubber Research Institutes in Sri Lanka, were
prepared. The RARCs were: Angunukolapelessa, Aralaganwila, Bandarawela, Bombuwela, Mahailluppallama and
Makandura. In view of the prevailing disturbances in the Northern and Eastern provinces, it was not possible to
complete the reports in two RARCC, viz., Killinochchi and Karadiyan Aru.
These reports contain information on the environmental base of agriculture in Sri Lanka; the physical environment,
socio-economics and agricultural characteristics of the operational area; the agro-ecological situations in the
operational area; evaluation of the adoption pattern of the current recommendations in respect of each crop; and an
analysis of the main production constraints/ problems and their causes to enable the identification of researchable
problems.
Project Activities (Phase 2):
a)     INFORM
Assistance was provided to consolidate and institutionalize INFORM in the NARS.
b)     CADMAR
CADMAR was tested at the CRI and VRI. The authorities at the CRI and VRI, having considered the results
obtained and the experience gained by testing the CADMAR at their institutes, decided to utilize this procedure in
planning their research activities in future. Following this decision the GTZ project continued to assist the CRI and
VRI to apply CADMAR which is designed to identify, formulate, evaluate and prioritize research thrusts.
Assistance was provided mainly through a number of joint working sessions on the application of CADMAR. With
the experience gained during this work at CRI and VRI, CADMAR was further refined, and a guide to its practical
application was published.



Appendix D
Page 10 of 12
The CADMAR methodology was also introduced to HORDI and the TRI.
c)     External Reviews of Research Institutions
Reviewing the performance of agricultural research institutes is among the responsibilities assigned to CARP. The
project assisted CARP to develop review procedures that would be applicable to all the research institutions to
which it provides oversight. The purpose of an external review is to assess the quality, cost effectiveness, relevance,
and impact of the scientific programmes of institutions in order to assure to Government, users and the public, that
the operations being funded are being carried out in line with declared policies and to the standards expected.
Guidelines, terms of reference and preparations required for independent reviews of the programme and
management of institutions in general, as well as the terrns of reference for review panels were formulated.
Reviews of the TRI, SRI, and RRI were completed during this phase.
Project Activities (Phase 3):
a)     CADMAR
The use of CADMAR, is gaining wide acceptance in the research institutes. At present the CRI, VRI, TRI, HORDI,
DEA and the SRI are applying CADMAR procedures in planning their research activities. These institutes are
provided with the necessary training and guidance to use CADMAR. A second edition of the manual "The
Composite Approach to Decision Making in Agricultural Research - a guide to its implementation" was published in
October 1996.
b)     External Reviews
Reviews of the DEA and the VRI are nearing completion.
c)     Agricultural Database System
The build-up of an Agricultural Database System at CARP was initiated to provide a service to its clients, who are the
research scientists of the country. The objective of the Agricultural Database System at CARP is stated as follows:
" The Project shall supply agricultural scientists, extension workers, planners, and the private sector relevant up to date
agricultural data in a computer readable and user friendly form".
A large number and a wide variety of useful databases have been identified. They include climatic data, production
data, agronomic data, agro-chemicals data, socio-economic data, demographic data, research project data, legislation
data, etc.
The intent is to collate these data from primary sources such as the Departments of Meteorology and Survey for storage
at and dissemination by CARP. CARP itself will not attempt to generate primary data. Many institutions e.g. Survey
Department, Meteorology Department, ARTI etc. collect these data as a part of their primary responsibilities.
The following databases have been obtained in the digital form from the Census Department and stored in the CARP
Database System.
I .    Area & Production statistics of Paddy including the raw data
2.     Area & Production data for Pulses
Analog data of the Census of Agricultural Crops & Livestock of 1992/93 have been obtained and entered into a digital
form.



Appendix D
Page 1 1 of 1 2
Arrangements have been made with the Survey Department to digitise their 1:250,000 scale map of Sri Lanka. When
this becomes available the spatial data and temporal data will be integrated for better representation.
4. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
Some of the achievements made to-date in respect of objectives laid down at appraisal have already been and listed
in Section 3 of this report under the individual project components, and will not be repeated. It must, however, be
recorded that among the research fall-out from the ARP to the farmer have been many, including the release of high
yielding varieties of seed paddy such as BG 300 resistant to a variety of pests & diseases, paddy varieties suitable
for the Low-country wet zone, high yielding varieties of other grains & pulses and fruits such as papaw, several
varieties of virus resistant fruit plants, biological control methods for pests of sugarcane, evolution of new superior
varieties of poultry suited for local farming conditions etc., but regrettably these efforts did not result in meaningful
increases in agricultural production at a national level during the project period. Adverse weather conditions of 1995
and 1996 has been the major contributory factor for this debacle. Loss of the extension agents at grass-roots level
and the loss of direct control of the extension service due to provincialisation have also pitched in. The Agricultural
Research Project did not carry an extension component, nor does the mandate of CARP include extension.
Extension has been independently looked at through the Second Agricultural Extension Project, but linkages
between research and extension however, have shown no significant improvement throughout this period.
CARP has had trouble effectively covering its full mandate, but several important gaps have been covered recently
with advances made such as the finalisation of a NARP which is awaiting clearing by the Council. Other measures
taken include the following:-
*  publication of a Directory of Research Personnel within the NARS
*  a Directory of Research Projects undertaken by NARS is nearing completion.
-  The Council is now being consulted by GOSL on matters relating to research strategy, policy and priorities.
-  The Secretariat has begun to yield some influence on research funding within the NARS as it is now agreed that
Council for Agricultural Research Policy would sit as an "observer" with the Department of National Planning
during the budgetary process of 1997, and expects to influence the budget of agencies within the NARS from
1988 onwards.
*  Recognition of Scientific activity was made by the presentation of four awards for outstanding research
contributions, in January, 1997.
The ARP has strengthened research facilities, civil works, equipment and library facilities as envisaged in the SAR.
At the time of writing, however, it is felt that provisions made by the project in respect of library facilities needs
enhancement with the provision of e-mail and Internet facilities for all the stations in the NARS ,and computer
facilities provided to libraries by the ARP needs to be upgraded.
An improvement in the technical capacity of the researchers through manpower development and technical
programme has taken place. In 1987, only 45% of the research workers have been trained for postgraduate level.
This figure improved to >60% at the end of 1996 and is expected to improve further in 1997 when the scholars on
extended programme outside ARP return to the country. The technical assistance programme too, is beginning to
show results. Institutes, such as Tea Research Institute and the Veterinary Research Institute have recast their
programmes and budgets on the basis of CADMAR and INFORM findings, and the other agencies are also doing
so, albeit a little way behind.
LESSONS LEARNED.
At project completion, all the Scientific equipment procured by the project was installed, commissioned and put to
use. On the positive side, what the project did right was to consult the end-user and obtain a first draft specification.



Appendix D
Page 1 2 of 1 2
This draft needed heavy correction by PMU in many instances and needed to be sent back and forth till agreed by
all parties - a process which sometimes took upto 10 or 12 months to complete. End-user was also made a party to
the technical evaluation of offers received, which were made on an item-wise basis. This process was tedious, time-
consuming but effective. The project could have, however, improved on its performance with the Department of
Agriculture if PMU had made direct consultations with the Regional Stations on allocations made in the SAR,
instead of routing such requests through DOA's Headquarters. This indirect approach has lead to problems
particularly with deliveries of much needed laboratory equipment for its Regional Centre at Bandarawela and
reported in paragraph 11 of ARP's ICR.
The Project Management Unit needs to prepare an agreed agenda for each of its components, prior to
commencement of operations and work according to this agenda. Exceptions should not be made without good and
compelling reasons, as otherwise the agencies will implementation will become bogged down with arguments
relating to procedural measures to suit some individual or circumstance. This becomes more important particularly
with components such as Manpower Development or Civil Works. Estimations relating to rehabilitation of Civil
Works is also a matter which more attention than new construction, and the need to erect simple buildings which
are easy to maintain, becomes important particularly at remote stations.
Long-term Manpower Development needs by providing training in USA & Canada seems a risky operation as
many fellows do not return at the end of their training programmes. This policy needs review.
THE FUTURE.
Project component of Contract Research will continue into the future will no loss of financial support. Funding of
Rs.22 m provided for this activity for 1997 is generous and it is doubtful if this budget is reached, and commitments
already made by the Council on this activity go beyond 1999.
Library support provided by the project has helped to strengthen this need, but the need to upgrade Computer
facilities and provide e-mail and internet facilities to all member libraries within the NARS is being felt already.
Incremental Staff provided by the project have all been absorbed into the regular cadre of the respective agencies
and this activity is expected to move ahead without difficulty.
In respect of Manpower Development, ARP has met immediate needs of the NARS, but it is doubtful if many
agencies can sustain this effort into the future without additional assistance. Likewise with Civil Works, where with
the exception of a few instances, ARP has met the needs of the NARS for new constructions, but rehabilitation of
existing works need to be carried out. Continued support will also be needed to meet research needs for laboratory
equipment.
Extension per se and linkages between research and extension however, need to be strengthened as no significant
improvement, and perhaps even a deterioration of what existed previously has taken place during this period
because of the loss of the field level extension agents and the provincialisation of the extension system.



Appendix E
gtz
Deutsdi Gelbdcha fSir
Techni Zusmmatrbeit (GTZ)
GmbH
Status Report on the
GTZ-CARP Research Management Project
to the Council for Agricultural Research Policy of Sri Lanka
PN 87.2286.0
PN 95.2283.0
This report is intended to be an Annex to the WB-ARP-lmplementation Completion Re-
port. It reflects the contributions of the Federal Republic of Germany and achievements
arrived with and in support of the Secretariat of CARP during the period 1988 to 1996.



Contents
Foreword
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in this Report                           ii
The Contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany to the Agricultural
Reserach Project
I.   Background                                                          1
II.  The FRG Contribution                                                2
Ill.  Project Activities                                                 3
A.  CARP Administration and Management                              3
B.  Management Information and Programme Budgeting System           4
C.  Setting Research Priorities                                     5
D.  Status Review Reports                                           9
E.  Contributions to the National Agricultural Research Plan        9
F.   External Reviews of Research Institutions                     11
G.  Agricultural Database System                                   11



Foreword
This report has been prepared for two reasons:
* to give evidence on the investment into Technical Assistance of the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany commissioned by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Co-
operation and Development (BMZ).
* to highlight the synergetic yields of joining efforts of the World Bank and German
bilateral technical co-operation in collaboration with the Govemment of Sri Lanka,
the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forest Resources, institutional capacity
building, development of and research into practical tools of research management.
This priority area for Technical Co-operation was selected to sustain and improve
the productivity of the national research system (NARS) of Sri Lanka.
Indicators for the achievement of this goal are that there is an articulated demand
throughout the system for the advise of CARP, more and more institutes are system-
atically using these tools, and the research community has engaged in adapting and
refining accord to their needs.
During implementation cycles of 3 phases draw-backs and problems had to be re-
solved, but - thanks to different teams and task force groups - this was a very produc-
tive process.
The key factors for the results achieved so far are:
* continuity in funding from BMZ
* continuity in personnel and the collaboration of a small group of consultants, locals
and from overseas, which helped to build trust and confidence for sometimes hurt-
ing innovation
* continuity in the communication and interaction between Bank- and GTZ-staff.
GTZ wants to thank all parties who contributed to this success: The regional BMZ-
office, the Bank, CARP and all the NARS leaders and scientists.
Special thanks to the CARP secretariat team: Dr. Kiritesinghe, Dr. Mahindaplala and
Dr. Wettasinghe.



ii
Acronyms and Abbreviations Used in this Report
ARP               Agricultural Research Project
ARTI              Agricultural Research and Technic Institute
BMZ               German Federal Ministry for Economic Co-operation and
Development
CADMAR            Composite Approach to Decision-making in Agricultural Research
CARP              Council for Agricultural Research Policy
CRI               Coconut Research Institute
DEA               Department of Export Agriculture
DOA               Department of Agriculture
FRD               Forestry Research Division
FRG               Federal Republic of Germany
GOSL              Govemment of Sri Lanka
GTZ               Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HORDI             Horticultural Research and Development Institute
IFPRI             International Food Policy Research Institute
INFORM            Management Information and Budgeting System
ISNAR             Intemational Services for National Agricultural Research
NARA              National Aquatic Resources Agency
NARP              National Agricultural Research Plan
NARS              National Agricultural Research System
RARC              Regional Agricultural Research Centre
RRI               Rubber Research Institute
SRI               Sugar Research Institute
TRI               Tea Research Institute
VRI               Veterinary Research Institute
WB                World Bank



1
The Contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany to the Agricultural
Research Project
1.   Background
The Agricultural Research Project (ARP), planned to run for 9 years, was launched in
1987, with the principal objective of raising farmers' incomes by increasing agricultural
production through the development and introduction of improved technology aimed at
solving specific problems of farmers.
The principal elements of the ARP, which was financed in a trilateral co-operation ar-
rangement between the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), the World Bank and the
Federal Republic of Germany were:
a) the establishment of a Council for Agricultural Research Policy (CARP),
with appropriate authority to formulate through a National Agricultural
Research Plan (NARP), an overall strategy for research, set national re-
search policy and priorities for allocation of resources, and strengthen
critical linkages between the various research institutes in the National
Agricultural Research System (NARS), affiliated to nearly half-a-dozen
line ministries,
b) to strengthen research station facilities by improving infrastructural and
library facilities, and by providing equipment, machinery and vehicles,
c) the improvement of technical capacity of researchers through man-
power development,
d) the introduction of a 'contract research programme' to provide opera-
tional funds for research,
e) the provision of incremental staff and operating costs, and
f) the introduction of research planning and evaluation procedures.



2
II. The FRG Contribution
The Federal Republic of Germany provided the Technical Assistance component for
the ARP aiming at the efficiency of the NARS by improving the structure, organisa-
tional procedures and planning methods. This component was implemented through
GTZ in a bilateral technical co-operation project named GTZ-CARP.
Experience in developing countries has repeatedly shown that increases in productivity
and income through improved farming methods not only result in more food, but also in
more jobs, both, on farm but particularly in local villages and towns. IFPRI for example
was able to demonstrate, that I US$ income growth in agriculture is generating 2 - 3
US$ additional economic growth outside agriculture. Agricultural research is crucially
important for a sustainable agricultural and rural development. It is an essential in-
strument for generating technologies and knowledge so urgently needed to achieve
food security, poverty alleviation and the sustainable use of natural resources (Dr. de
Haas (BMZ) and Dr. Friedrichsen (GTZ), 1997).
The GTZ-CARP component project contributes in the form of advisory services and the
development of management instruments for improved steering of agricultural re-
search, is provided for the management of change and to ensure sustainability mainly
in:
* identifying potential key areas of research based on cost-benefit analy-
sis,
* laying down the research priorities in a national research plan,
* organising the work of the research centres on a multidisciplinary basis
and ensuring that the activities of these centres are based on the actual
production problems and opportunities, and
* promoting the institute's own efforts to improve the quality of research
and the efficiency of the different research departments and projects,
and assisting the institutes in this task



3
In essence, the concept of this GTZ-CARP component project is that all the parties in-
volved in the NARS would base their decisions on the benefits to be derived from the
innovations at farm level. The decision criteria at all levels should be the economic ef-
ficiency and reproducibility (acceptability for adoption) of the innovations, and the ob-
jectives to be pursued should always be consonant with the development process of
the users.
The direct target group of the GTZ-CARP component project will be the council with
the CARP secretariat and the research institutes. The indirect target group will consist
of potential users of agricultural innovations, who are mainly resource poor rural small-
holders.
The total value of the GTZ-CARP component project is DM 5.5 Mln which greatly ex-
ceeded the original commitment of the FRG towards the ARP. The activities were
spread over three phases as follows:
Phase 1:   August 1988 to October 1992 (DM 1.6 million)
Phase 2:    November 1992 to October 1995 (DM 1.8 million)
Phase 3:   November 1995 to October 1998 (DM 2.1 million)
Ill. Project Activities
Different types of activities were necessary which were implemented in parallel or in
sequence as the process of change demands. Each activity was implemented follow-
ing a period of consensus building considering organisational development criteria and
implication. They may be grouped into clusters of "best practice":
A.  CARP Administration and Management
The Council for Agricultural Research Policy was set-up in December 1987. At the
commencement of Phase 1 the project provided assistance in developing the organi-
sation and proper procedures for the efficient functioning of CARP and its Secretariat.



4
While CARP is well established and has come a long way, it appears that it has yet to
be fully recognised and accepted by the NARS and other entities in the public sector.
In this regard it would have been advantageous if the conceptualisation and operation
of CARP were based on a plan derived from a logical framework analysis. An institu-
tional analysis of the CARP in its totality, its mandate and functions, its legitimacy and
acceptance and modalities of ensuring its performance should have been done and
agreed upon by all parties concerned. This might have helped to address strategic
management issues such as visioning and setting policy targets.
B.  Management Information and Programme Budgeting System
Lack of good information can be a major impediment to effective management of re-
search. Managers need to know exactly what experiments their scientists are doing,
with which facilities and at what cost. Without this information, managers cannot per-
form, or improve, essential functions such as planning programming, implementing,
transfer, monitoring and evaluation.
Although managers of small research units may be well informed about their entire re-
search programme, the directors of large institutes, or of multi-institute national sys-
tems usually have a problem in maintaining up-to date information on resource use
and programme implementation. At large research institutes, there is also a more ob-
vious need to develop a systematic information base to be used in planning and pro-
gramme formulation activities.
To make good this deficiency, which was clearly seen during the project preparation
and appraisal, in Phase I an effective management information system inclusive of a
programme budgeting system (subsequently named INFORM) was developed, tested
and introduced to the research organisations by ISNAR who was entrusted this activ-
ity. The following institutions adopted INFORM: TRI, RRI, CRI, SRI, VRI, DEA, NARA,
FRD and the Research Centres of the DOA. During Phase 2 and 3 assistance was
provided to consolidate and institutionalise INFORM in the NARS.



5
Examples of the sort of questions that a research institute director might ask INFORM
to answer are listed below:
* How much money is planned for a particular commodity group, i.e.,
grain legumes. Within grain legumes, what percentage of the budget is
planned for mungbean research? Is this allocation consistent with de-
velopment priorities?
* How many multidisciplinary experiments are implemented, and how can
the current programme be restructured to give more emphasis to multi-
disciplinary work?
* In which experiments is a particular researcher involved?
, The minister wants to know what is being done on tissue culture. How
many experiments deal with tissue culture and what is their cost?
 Is the allocation of research resources to different rice soils in line with
production problems in those soils and the number of farmers affected?
C.  Setting Research Priorities
Although agricultural research has been important in maintaining and improving pro-
ductivity in a wide range of agricultural commodities, the need for objective, formal,
open and systematic methods for assessing research needs was recognised. To quote
a pre-project diagnostic review of the Sri Lanka NARS, by a Joint Group of Sri Lankan
and ISNAR Consultants: A major weakness in most research organisations is the ab-
sence of diagnostic socio-economic research at the producer level. Thus, producers'
needs, perceptions, constraints, costs, and reactions to new opportunities and tech-
nology are not always properly understood. Such information is therefore not often
transmitted to research managers and policy makers and as a consequence, both re-
search planning and national planning may be less effective .Linkage with



6
producers outside the institution is not strong because guidance or programming at the
research station level rarely has the benefit of diagnostic socio-economic insight into
the producers' most critical production problems". To respond to this situation the proj-
ect reviewed a number of methodologies available for priority setting. However, their
suitability for direct application to the Sri Lanka situation was questioned. Conse-
quently, a methodology called the Composite Approach to Decision Making for Agricul-
tural Research (CADMAR), was developed during the first phase.
In Phase 2, CADMAR was tested at the CRI and VRI. The authorities at the CRI and
VRI, having considered the results obtained and the experience gained by testing the
CADMAR at their institutes, decided to utilise this procedure in planning their research
activities in future. Following this decision the GTZ project continued to assist the CRI
and VRI to apply CADMAR which is designed to identify, formulate, evaluate and pri-
oritise research thrusts. Assistance was provided mainly through a number of joint
working sessions on the application of CADMAR. With the experience gained during
this work at CRI and VRI, CADMAR was further refined, and a guide to its practical
application was published.
CADMAR is a step-wise process designed to identify, formulate, evaluate and prioritise
Research Thrusts. It is comprised of the following eight steps:
1. Identification of the Problems and Constraints limiting productivity and/or
the profitability of the farming enterprise/industry.
2. Classification of the Problems and Constraints according to their
Researchability.
3. Formulation of Research Thrusts.
4. Assessment of the Probability of Success of, and the Time needed for
completion of, the Research Thrusts.



7
5. Estimation of the Costs of Research Thrusts.
6. Estimation of the Additional Benefits of the Innovations resulting from the
Research Thrusts.
7. Tabulation and presentation of the data which permits the comparison of
Research Thrusts, and the setting of Research Priority.
8. Prioritisation of the Research Thrusts.
An important aspect of CADMAR is that research is planned in terms of units designated
as Research Thrusts, as distinct from research programmes, projects, experiments etc.
In CADMAR, Research Thrust has a precise meaning, and is defined as "the unit of
research which is sufficient to generate an innovation or technology which can be
used by farmers to improve their productivity and/or profitability".
The importance of formulating Research Thrusts lies in the fact that they can be
quantitatively assessed both in terms of the costs and the benefits they will produce. The
results of Research Thrusts are innovations which can be used in the field and which, if
adopted by farmers, will provide them with monetary benefit. This results from their
being designed from the outset as a solution package to meet identified needs in the
field. The participatory, multidisciplinary process of formulating thrusts, enables an
assessment of the feasibility of the research and allows for a meaningful comparison of
the potential innovation with the presently available technology. It also provides a clear
focus to, and a monitorable target for the research.
Anticipated change in additional farm income is regarded by CADMAR as one of the
most important criteria affecting the potential adoption by farmers of a research
innovation. The other field level criteria are the additional labour requirement and the
additional return per additional labour hour. These field level (bottom-up) criteria, and
others derived from them, are used to assess the impact of the research innovation on



8
the national policy level goals (growth and equity) and objectives (income, employment,
foreign exchange earnings, income distribution and nutrition). Qualitative estimates of
their effect on the environment are also made to assess the impact of the innovations on
the goal of conservation. In this way CADMAR provides a methodology whereby
research content and priorities are determined by a combination of the "top-down" and
"bottom-up" influences, (particularly the latter) and a method of estimating the cost and
possible benefit of a research programme in monetary terms, before it is implemented.
Formulating thrusts and estimating farmer adoption rate require considerable inter-
disciplinary dialogue which, in itself, leads to more efficient research planning and
implementation. The need to carry out an ex-ante analysis is fundamental to the use of
CADMAR and produces not only an estimiation of costs and benefits before research
work commences but also the better design and justification of research programmes
which makes them more attractive to financial supporters and assists scientists to relate
their work to field realities.
While it is accepted that many systems to identify research priorities are presently in use
world-wide, the CADMAR relies on three factors which, can be considered new, in terms
of their combination in the decision-making process: the strong Bottom-up
contribution to Research Thrusts which can be directly linked to Innovations
suitable for promotion by the Extension Service to farmers and using estimated field
benefits for these Innovations, before research work commences, as major
determinants of Research Priority.
The use of CADMAR, is gaining wide acceptance in the research institutes. At present
(mid Phase 3) the CRI, VRI, TRI, HORDI, DEA and the SRI are applying CADMAR
procedures in planning their research activities. These institutes are provided with the
necessary training and guidance to use CADMAR. A second edition of the manual
"The Composite Approach to Decision Making in Agricultural Research - a guide to its
implementation" was published in October 1996.



9
D.  Status Review Reports
The Agricultural Status Review Reports in respect of the operational areas of seven
Regional Agricultural Research Centres (RARC) of the Department of Agriculture and
the Tea and Rubber Research Institutes in Sri Lanka, were prepared. The RARCs
were: Angunukolapelessa, Aralaganwila, Bandarawela, Bombuwela, Maha Illuppallama
and Makandura. In view of the prevailing disturbances in the Northern and Eastern
provinces, it was not possible to complete the reports in two RARCs, viz., Killinochchi
and Karadiyan Aru.
These reports contain information on the environmental base of agriculture in Sri
Lanka; the physical environment, socio-economics and agricultural characteristics of
the operational area; the agroecological situations in the operational area; evaluation
of the adoption pattern of the current recommendations in respect of each crop; and an
analysis of the main production constraints/ problems and their causes to enable the
identification of researchable problems.
E.  Contributions to the National Agricultural Research Plan
A draft National Agricultural Research Plan was prepared prior to the commencement
of the ARP. With the establishment of CARP this plan was to be finalised and pre-
sented to the GOSL .
Although a number of updated drafts were prepared the final version has not been re-
leased as yet. The GTZ-CARP Component Project has made the following contribu-
tions towards the production of the NARP.
a) The preparation of Status Review Reports covering all the agroecologi-
cal regions of the country other than those in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces (see section D). The identification, description and assess-
ment of the production potentials/constraints of the agroecological
farming situations provides a sound basis for planning the research at
the institute level, as well as for selecting development options.



10
b) A consultant assisted the CARP in developing and applying the meth-
odologies to prioritise commodities at the national level. A working group
defined the national agricultural development strategy in terms of five
selected objectives and assigned a weight to each of them, indicating
their relative importance, as follows:
Objectives                               Percentage Weighting
Income and employment generation                     30
Generation of foreign exchange                       24
Economic efficiency                                  18
Satisfaction of future domestic demand               18
Satisfaction of nutritional requirements of
low income groups                                    10
The first approximation of a ranked listing of commodities was obtained
by applying a formal priority setting methodology (weighted objective
methodology) to commodities for which data on past performance was
available. This selection provided the base for discussion and revision
taking into consideration factors such as the potential for future devel-
opment of these commodities, potential for an effective contribution from
research in the medium term and the availability of trained scientists in
the various institutes.
c) Information derived from the INFORM database (see section B) pro-
vided material for a system-wide in-depth study of the agricultural re-
search in Sri Lanka. For the first time, planners and policy makers, insti-
tute directors and scientists had a very detailed picture of the structure
of the research programmes and the current allocation of financial and
more importantly, human resources. Such information is invaluable for
long term planning.



11
d) Outputs from the application of CADMAR (see section C) at selected
institutes have been utilised for updating the NARP.
e) Towards the end of 1996 the project sponsored a residential seminar
which brought together the NARS leaders to discuss the further devel-
opment of the agriculture sector in Sri Lanka. This laid the foundation for
the preparation of a vision and strategy for agricultural research over the
next ten years.
F.   External Reviews of Research Institutions
Reviewing the performance of agricultural research institutes is among the responsi-
bilities assigned to CARP. The project assisted CARP to develop review procedures
that would be applicable to all the research institutions to which it provides oversight.
The purpose of an external review is to assess the quality, cost effectiveness, rele-
vance, and impact of the scientific programmes of institutions in order to assure to
Government, users and the public, that the operations being funded are being carried
out in line with declared policies and to the standards expected.
Guidelines, terms of reference and preparations required for independent reviews of
the programme and management of institutions in general, as well as the terms of ref-
erence for review panels were formulated in Phase 2. Reviews of the TRI, SRI, and
RRI were completed during this phase. In Phase 3, the reviews of the DEA and the
VRI have been initiated and are nearing completion. A review of NARA is envisaged.
G.  Agricultural Database System
The build-up of an Agricultural Database System at CARP was initiated to provide a
service to its clients, who are the research scientists of the country. The objective of the
Agricultural Database System at CARP is stated as follows:



12
"The Project shall supply agricultural scientists, extension workers, planners, and the
private sector relevant up to date agricultural data in a computer readable and user
friendly form."
A large number and a wide variety of useful databases have been identified. They
include climatic data, production data, agronomic data, agrochemical data, socio-
economic data, demographic data, research project data, legislation data, etc. The intent
is to collate these data from primary sources such as the Departments of Meteorology
and Survey for storage at and dissemination by CARP. CARP itself will not attempt to
generate primary data. Many institutions e.g. Survey Department, Meteorology
Department, ARTI etc. collect these data as a part of their primary responsibilities.
Acquisition of both Hardware and Software is virtually complete. Hardware consists of
three computers, laser printer, scanner and plotter. Key software such as ARCVIEW 3.0,
Windows 95, Microsoft Office Professional support the project.
The following databases have been obtained in the digital form from the Census
Department and stored in the CARP Database System.
1. Area & Production statistics of Paddy including the raw data
2. Area & Production data for Pulses
Analogue data of the Census of Agricultural Crops & Livestock of 1992/93 have been
obtained and entered into a digital form.
Arrangements have been made with the Survey Department to digitise their 1:250,000
scale map of Sri Lanka. When this becomes available the spatial data and temporal data
will be integrated for better representation.



IBRD 19616
8    SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EXISTING RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS
*  DOA REGIONAL RESEARCH
!      \ 1           .      :  >    s -                                     CENTERS
MINOR EXPORT CROPS
'  JAFFNA    . /                                  RESEARCH INSTITUTE
KiIrinochchiE-  / l    -SUGARCANE RESEARCH INSTITUTE
LIVESTOCK RESEARCH INSTITUTE
-    MULLAITIVU                                COCONUT RESEARCH INSTITUTE
j-_-(~    _ _  ,~ -~                  TEA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
N  O    R r H    E                  iR....N      RUBBER RESEARCH INSTITUTE
9.    1' &,  r               t       -                     _FOREST RESEARCH
I   \-?       '--<.  VAVUNIYA    -
MANNAR                                                NATIONAL AQUATIC RESOURCES
teMANNAR         *        .-        '                   AGENCY
I  UNIVERSITY OF PERADENIYA
' ~   ,\   ^                  !                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
/ l  .   ,           ,                      - -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
-- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-*INTERNATIONAL
N O R T H                                               BOUNDARY
ANURADHAPURA             / TRINCOMALEE
,District Bowdwries are those
jJ,-,  -              C  E  ~~~~~~N T(R  A  Z     - ; 
H  ',   > ~~~ >  Maho Illuppolloma                     '
K  IPUTTALAM   A       \.   *                                               i
tr   \> (  '   I    ~~~~    >              POLONNARUWA
N O'R TH                        rj
E  N  O/R  r H   e      .                   \ ~~~~BATTICALOA
KURUNEGALA                 I                     A...T TjKar a
-  r  \   -   8  _  /    \_Aru
W E WEST ERN               MATALE                  LAS TIERN
MIkondura                 N         *v. Gir ndurukotte       /       \
' Makandura        j ,*Prdny 
-, UsrdyoI
I.CYNT RA Z
t9.\           K           A N                              DKANDY ij
GAMPAHA                     on  \,onnoruwa  j   ...
,       EL   ....../   ...U \ L.---V  A _
i71       .\ J;   >              BADULLA                                   7
,'CaOLOMBO /t       C   n  NUWARA'                 / /
\    >  :  \ / >   g   E LELIYA    N Bandarowela
N'                                                 . 3 ~-   >    MONERAGALA
KALUTARA         RATNAPURA    * * .~'N
V           -\. 's:.          /   "/_ 
Bobv>o       -- r,                                                  -  ';   '  '
~~~N9~ ~~
GALLE                         *' N/ T</~   -\HAMBANTOTA
AngunokaZlapeless  R  NINDIA
.-MATARA  (                                                 '. ,.
0    10    20    30  ILES                                                      6L
0  10  70  30  ;0  S0 KILOMETERS                                                              SRA
LANKA
MAY 1986






IBRD 19617
SRI LANKA
/        ~T-                 AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
/   '' 'Q <,, ~. <             DOA RESEARCH STATIONS
i                    'N   X\   AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
|  JAFFNA                                    0  RESEARCH STATIONS
RESEARCH STATIONS AND
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
r   MULLAITIVU         0                  *  ADAPTIVE RESEARCH UNITS
a   NATIONAL CAPITAL
9.                        N/O RJT //  f   R.NN  &           / _     -H E-DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
---K. | r         -<VAVUNIYA  t*   5PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
,'  MANNAR    5       <-        '     9        -  -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
'District Boundaries a   towe
,.      i                2         (                   used in 1981 conss
ANURADHAPURA               TRINCOMALEEf
.        {&~~~A,:.II r dl;>c , 0    * Kcird l  ;
Kalpiti.yat     '_                 C  lE N  Tr.R A  Z        'V  t\          Bengal
PUTTALAM                                PLNAR A
T , c                                 POLONNAFRUW v 
J                     '                      !\
/ OIR  T H                              .aI 0cQa oo  BATTICALOA 
;) KURUNEGALA   ).                                     asln>S 
WES TERN              . MATALE                 EA S T'ER N
%  Matxl.jj \.-                     >
C E N r R A Z *.i         V  - V
GAMPAHA  .1 ,         j*, .-. 'X o
''KEGALLA(       0      (    <      K   V A          AMPARAIj
Crlom"             /1 .     )'\ ,      \.i   :BADULLA                    .
COLOMBO     \        ' NUWARA`               ,      Maneragala
>*  - f \/_s   ELIYA                       M Bnerrwglal<
J f-'"    ^ 9  !  vc,cqoC, c     -,'     
", \ 3"'  -,    <-..  MONERAGALA
Kalutara  LU       A   RATNAPURA    /           '
Bentota\    _ . 5                                 N'  '  -  \    -
GALLE   r        t- HAMBANTOTA
~~..    ER   N   ~~~~~~~INDIA~
.    - ';  \'MATARA  I           --                              o
.6' 0    10   20   3 MES--a
10  20 30 40  50 KLOMEIERS                                   -e-
MAY 1986






i e 7 .t; ;t*                       . 1   .,.i  .
e. I,
_X 't' (,  ,  :\  ,,            ..      .       .        ..................,, . '. ;   0,o
DRY ZONE             INTERMEDIATE ZCONEWETZONE
LOW COUNTRY  LOW COUNTRY  MID COUNIRY  UP COUNTRY  LOW COUNTRY  MID COUNTRY  UP COUNTRY O
vvvv~~       ~    ~~~~        E  E _    cc c SX E                                 
~~~~~~~~~  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*              V')0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a L W tX-   wX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ln
I              0 >~~~~~~~~7
V   Y ZVN  VNEMeIT VON 9e  ZONEVV     V    V             V   V   V   V                ZON  E  U
LO W COUNTRY    LOW COUNTRY   MID COUNTRY    UP COUNTRY    .O. CNT    ... OU. U. 'O U8gN ,  0 > >
2 .
0~
CA
l   s  U  w  s   w  ,  .  w  .  S   .  w     .  .  .   .   .   .    .  .    * V  V  V   
|   f  S  S  S S  S  S  S     S   S  r    r     .   .~  .    .0 .* .        
0 0          0    0 0    0   0 1    0         0(      0   0S ,  ,, , j j,  Z      . 1  
i0
CT
00-
£  .   .    ~~~~~i~~Z 
£        f                    
IF                                                                                      (
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C     ~~~~~~~~~~4  il I                                   ~ 
~~C   CD~~~~  ~~ L~~'II   j  I   I    -~~~~~~~    -. ~~~0~i
ID Dj  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  RUb  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sI
*   R  *o      I1~~~~~~~~~J









IMAGING
Report No.:        16676
Type:     ICR



