CREDIT NUMBER 1776 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1776 CE
DEVELOPME   CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, .4..drF?47(                            1987, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBL     OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Federal
Republic of Germany, acting through its Agency for Technical
Cooperation (hereinafter called the GTZ) a grant (the GTZ Grant)
in an amount of $800,000 equivalent to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the GTZ Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and GTZ; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "CARP" means the Council of Agricultural Research
Policy to be established under the Project;


﻿-2-
(b)  "MADR" means the Ministry of Agricultural Development
and Research of the Borrower;
(c) "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture within MADR;
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)  "Fiscal   Year"  means   the  Borrower's   fiscal   year
commencing January 1 and ending December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The comm-itment charge shall accrue from


﻿- 3 -
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June I
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1997, and ending December 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-4-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Borrower
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds will be
allocated   for  the   operation   and  maintenance   of   Project
facilities.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred        to  in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors     as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
cedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that, subject to paragraph (b) of this Section the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GTZ Grant made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.


﻿-6 -
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
GTZ Agreement (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower has established CARP and appointed its
members, the Executive Secretary, two senior scientists and
support staff; and
(c) the Borrower has established and adequately staffed
the Project Management Unit and has employed, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a firm of architects/
engineers to assist said Unit.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning of the Borrower, is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Coloml,o, Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                           21409
Colombo                             FINMIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written,
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               3,700,000          65%
(2)  Equipment and             3,000,000          100% of foreign
vehicles                                    expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)  Training and              3,600,000          100%
fellowships
(4)  Contract research         2,800,000         60%
(5)  Staff salaries            1,100,000         Amounts specified
and operating                               in the Annex to
costs                                       this Schedule
(6) Unallocated                1,200,000
TOTAL               15,400,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 150,000, may be made in respect of Categories 3 and 5 on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after June 1, 1986.


﻿- 11 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
1.   Disbursements in respect of salaries, allowances and other
operating costs under the Project of incremental staff of the
Headquarters Research Planning Cell of DOA, CARP Administration,
and Project Management Unit shall be made as follows:
% of Expenditures
to be Financed until
all Disbursements
under Category 5
reach the Aggregate
Amount opposite to              Aggregate Amount in
each Percentage                        SDRs
90%                               700,000
60%                              1,000,000
40%                              1,100,000
2.   Disbursements shall be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures certified by the head of the Project Management Unit
or his designate.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to promote the integration
of agricultural research efforts in Sri Lanka, to develop a cost
effective agricultural research system and to increase farmers'
incomes through the development of better varieties, and
improvements in husbandry practices and farming systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
Establishment under MADR of a Council of Agricultural
Research Policy (CARP) responsible for making recommendations
concerning agricultural research strategies, policies, priorities
and funding.
Part B
Strengthening of research stations and library facilities
through the carrying out of civil works and the provision of
vehicles, machinery, and equipment therefor.
Part C
Improvement of the technical capacity of researchers through
the provision of training, fellowships and technical assistance.
Part D
Introduction of a contract research program to finance
research activities.
Part E
Establishment of a Headquarters Research Planning Cell
within DOA.
Part F
Introduction of research planning and evaluation procedures.


﻿- 13 -
Part G
Improvement of research-extension linkages.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, scientific equipment,
farm machinery and vehicles shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for spares and miscellaneous items which to the
extent practicable cannot be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, may be let follow-
ing local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided that any such items estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $10,000, up to an aggregate amount of
$100,000 equivalent, may be procured through prudent shopping
on the basis of at least three price quotations from different
sources.
3.   Books and   publications may    be  procured  through  direct
purchase from sole suppliers.


﻿- 15 -
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall establish, not later than June 30, 1987,
and thereafter maintain throughout the execution of the Project,
a Project Coordination Committee within MADR with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The Borrower shall establish and fully staff the Head-
quarters Research Planning Cell of DOA by June 30, 1987.
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that by December 31, 1987 all land
and rights in respect of land have been made available for the
construction of CARP'S administrative building in Colombo.
4.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by
March 31, 1988, for comments by the Association, a Status Review
Report for each of the Borrower's seven agroecological regions.
5.   The Borrower shall: (i) carry out during fiscal year 1987
high priority research programs and maintain in said fiscal year
the same level of agricultural research expenditures (in real
terms) as in fiscal year 1986; (ii) prepare and furnish to
the Association the agricultural research programs of the
different research institutions for the fiscal years 1988 and
1989; and (iii) carry out its annual research program planning
and review exercise in accordance with procedures agreed with the
Association.
6.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association,
by December 31, 1987, for comments by the Association, a preli-
minary manpower development plan, and shall take into account the
Association's comments in the formulation of such plan.
7.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association,
for its approval, by December 31, 1988, the National Agricultural
Research Plan and shall from time to time review and update such
Plan.
8.   The Borrower shall ensure that Diagnostic Teams of 2-3
scientists will be formed at all research institutions by May 31,
1987.


﻿- 17 -
9.   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1988, carry out
a review of the existing extension system with a view of improv-
ing such system and developing research extension linkages. The
Borrower shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
comment on the results and recommendations of such review.
10. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by
December 31 of each year of the Project period, for comments by
the Association, a consolidated annual Research Report for the
previous year.
11. The Borrower shall carry out, in consultation with the
Association, interim reviews of all research activities under the
Project, one in January 1989 and the other in January 1991.
12. The Borrower shall ensure that, after the completion of the
Project, incremental research and support staff are retained and
that an adequate level of expenditures for research activities is
maintained.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 420,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 20 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account),
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


