INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
3151 Cd~
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
China: Sichuan Gas Development and
Conservation Project.
June 22, 1994
The above-captioned Staff Appraisal Report for China: Sichuan Gas
Development and Conservation Project is a revised version of the report
prepared following the approval of the Project by the Executive Directors
of the Bank and does not include information deemed confidential by the
Government of the People's Republic of China.






Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHNA
SICHUAN GAS DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION
PROJECT
June 22, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office






ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bcm     billion cubic meter
CNOOC China National Offshore Oil Corporation
CNPC China National Petroleum Corporation
E&P    Exploration and Production
EA      Environmental Assessment
ESMAP Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GET    Global Environment Trust Fund
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
JOCs   International Oil Companies
JGF     Japanese Grant Facility
LCB    Local Competitive Bidding
mcm    thousand cubic meters
MOE    Ministry of Energy
MOPI  Ministry of Petroleum Industry
PMO    Project Management Office
PRIF    Pre-Investment Facility
SAA    State Audit Administration
SOE    Statements of Expenditures
SPA     Sichuan Petroleum Administration
T&D    Transmission and Distribution
TCC    Technical Cooperation Credit
tce     ton coal equivalent
UNDP  United Nations Development Programme



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1994)
Currency Name  = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  = Yuan (Y)
1 Yuan  =  100 fen
Y 1.00  = $0.11
$1.00  = Y 8.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)  = 0.039 inches
1 meter (m)  = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)  = 35.3 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)  = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)  =  10,000 square meters  =   15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)  = 2.204 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)  = 1,000,000 watts
1 gigajoule (GJ)  =  1 billion (109) joules



- i -
CHINA
SICHUAN GAS DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION
PROJECT
LoAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:    China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and Sichuan Petroleum
Administration (SPA)
Amount:          $255 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Onlending
Terms:         $250 million and $5 million would be onlent to SPA and CNPC,
respectively, on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. SPA
and CNPC would bear the foreign exchange risks.
Project
Description:    The project would comprise three main components:   (a) a
restructuring component: implementation of the first phase of
restructuring the upstream oil and gas sector, based on the
recommendations of an ongoing restructuring study, including
commercialization and corporatization of CNPC/SPA through their
transformation into joint-stock companies, introduction of a commercial
accounting system and implementation of productivity enhancement and
related human resources development programs; (b) an investment
component: gas field development in Eastern Sichuan through the
drilling of about 100 wells, seismic survey and interpretation, and
construction of related surface facilities; gas field stimulation and reha-
bilitation of about 90 wells in Eastern Sichuan and 100 wells in Central
Sichuan; and expansion as well as rehabilitation and environmental
upgrade of SPA's gas transmission and distribution system; and (c) an
institution building component: technical assistance and training for the
implementation of the above two components as well as for national
petroleum education to upgrade the teaching and research capabilities
of the local petroleum institutes and develop exchange programs
between the local and foreign institutes.






Project
Benefits:       The proposed project has been designed to promote sustainable
development through institutional restructuring and alleviation of
energy shortages in an environmentally sound manner. The investment
component would result in incremental gas production which would
help offset the natural decline of aging fields in Sichuan. The eco-
nomic rate of return has been conservatively estimated at 24 percent.
In addition to quantifiable economic benefits, the project would lend
added momentum to policy and enterprise reforms as well as human
resources development in the sector.   Further, environmental
degradation and health concerns (notably respiratory diseases) would
be mitigated under the project through the substitution of coal
(2.9 million tons per annum) by gas, which would, in turn, reduce
emissions of SO2, CO2 and particulates.   Moreover, the gas
transmission rehabilitation component would enhance safety, minimize
gas leakages and reduce the emissions of methane and related global
warming impact.
Project
Risks:          Gas field development in Sichuan faces relatively high geological and
technical risks mainly due to complex geology and difficult operating
conditions. These risks would be mitigated by the provisions of appro-
priate modem technology and equipment under the project. Further,
to minimize the risks related to the uncertainties of economically re-
coverable gas reserves, a techno-economic preinvestment study on gas
reserve assessment and development plan optimization has been
undertaken with the assistance of international consultants. In addition,
assurances have been obtained from the government on the
implementation of a reform action plan for the rationalization of gas
pricing and allocation criteria to ensure the financial sustainability of
the proposed gas supply component. To reduce the risks of delay in
implementation of the project, the Chinese authorities have agreed to
maintain  satisfactory  arrangements  for  project  management.
Morevoer, the requisite technical assistance and training in project
implementation would be provided under the project.
Povertv
Category:       Not applicable.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                                    Local  Foreign      Total
--------- ($ million) ----------
Gas Field Development
- Drilling                                         195.4    130.6    326.0
- Seismic surveys                                   19.4      11.1     30.5
- Surface facilities                                22.0     21.3      43.3
Gas dehydration & desulfurization                    32.2      18.9      51.1
Gas field stimulation & rehabilitation               68.1      24.1      92.2
Gas transmission expansion                           34.5      24.9      59.4
Gas transmission rehabilitation                      24.4      42.7      67.1
Gas transmission environmental upgrade                3.5      16.1      19.6
Technical assistance & training                       0.7      13.8      14.5
Base Cost                                        400.2    303.5    703.7
Physical contingency                                 40.0      30.3      70.4
Price contingency                                    60.2      43.6    103.8
Total Project Cost /a                             500.4    377.4    877.9
Interest during construction /b                       0.0      67.3      67.3
Total Financing Required                          500.4    444.7    945.2
Financing Plan:
Global Environment Trust Fund                         0.0      10.0      10.0
SPA/CNPC                                            500.4    179.7    680.2
IBRD                                                  0.0    255.0    255.0
Total /c                                         500.4    444.7    945.2
/a  Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
/b  Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected disburse-
ment of loan proceeds. Foreign exchange portion of IDC is based on the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
/c  Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY             1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
---- - --------------------------(S million) -------------------------
Annual              25.0   50.0    55.0    45.0    35.0    25.0    20.0
Cumulative          25.0   75.0   130.0   175.0   210.0   235.0   255.0
Economic Rate
of Return:    24 percent



CONTENTS
1   The Energy Sector ........ .........................                             I
A. Overview .1
B. Energy Sector Issues.                                                        3
C. Energy Sector Strategy.. .   6
D. Bank Role in the Energy Sector.                                              6
2 Oil and Gas Subsector.                                                             8
A. Background.                                                                  8
B. Investment Strategy .................                                        8
C. Sectoral Policy.                                                             9
D. Sector Organization .                                                       11
E. Sectoral Restructuring .12
3 Gas Subsector in Sichuan .14
A.    Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
B. Energy and the Environment .14
C. Natural Gas Production .15
D. Gas Transmission And Distribution .16
E. Gas Consumption .16
F. Gas Pricing and Allocation Policy .17
G. Energy Conservation .18
H.  Lessons Learned from Earlier Bank Involvement .18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June 1993. The report was
prepared by the following: S. Shum (Senior Financial Analyst, Task Manager), J. Fritz
(Environmental Engineer), S. Khwaja (Senior Gas Specialist), H. Morsli (Senior Petroleum
Engineer), C. Amana (Young Professional), D. Caplin (Energy Conservation Consultant)
and J. Warren (Geophysical Consultant). The peer reviewers include: Messrs. R. Batstone
(Principal Environmental Specialist), N. Berrah (Senior Energy Economist), R. Heath
(Principal Chemical Engineer), C. Khelil (Petroleum Group Leader) and B. Svensson
(Energy Economist). The Division Chief is R. Newfarmer and the Acting Department
Director is Z. Ecevit.



- vi -
4    The Beneficiar ..........  ..... ... ..... ... . . . ... . . .                       20
A. Introduction .20
B. Sichuan Petroleum Administration ....                                             20
5    The Project .  . . . . . . . ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           23
A. Rational for Bank Participation .23
B. Rational for GEF Funding .23
C. Project Objectives .23
D. Project Description .24
E. Project Organization and Management .29
F. Project Implementation Schedule .29
G. Project Cost Estimates .29
H. Project Financing .29
I.   Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
J. Disbursement .34
K.  Environmnental Management ....... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  34
L.  Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision .35
M. Project Sustainability .35
6 Financial Aspects .36
A. Introduction .36
B. Accounting .37
C. Audits .37
D. Finances of SPA .38
7 Project Justification and Risks .42
A. Project Benefits .42
B. Economic Benefits .42
C. Environrmental Benefits .43
D. Project Risks .44
8. Agreements Reached and Recommendation .45



- vii -
ANNEXES
1.1  Primary Commercial Energy Production in China (1949-91) .... .     ..    47
1.2  Total Production and Consumption of Energy versus GNP Growth  . . . .   50
2.1  Oil and Gas Production in China (1949-92) .51
2.2  Major Oil and Gas Field Production in China (1988-92) .53
2.3  Crude Oil Price in China (1988-1992).                                    54
2.4  China Oil/Product Consumption and Exports (1987-92) .55
2.5  Policy Letter on Oil and Gas Sector Reforms .56
2.6  Restructuring of the China National Petroleum Corporation -
Terms of Reference ...                                                 59
3.1  Sichuan Province Commercial Energy Balance, 1970-1990  . . . . . . . . .   75
3.2 Sichuan Gas Consumption, 1987-1992 .76
3.3 Energy Conservation in Sichuan .78
5.1  Gas Field Development and Rehabilitation Subcomponent .86
5.2  Gas Transmission and Distribution Subcomponent .101
5.3 Training and Technical Assistance .113
5.4  Petroleum Development Promotion Technical Assistance -
Terrns of Reference .120
5.5   National Petroleum Education Diagnostic Review -
Terms of Reference .123
5.6  Procurement Improvement Technical Assistance -
Terms of Reference .126
5.7  Environmental Management .......... . ......... ........ 129
5.8 Indicative Supervision Plan .143
6.1  SPA Financial Statements (1988-92) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  144
6.2  Major Assumptions for SPA's Financial Projections .147
8.1  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .150



- viii -
CHARTS
1     Organization Chart of CNPC .                   .       .   . .  . .......  .  .  152
2     Organization Chart of SPA  ........  .        .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .  ...   153
3     Organization Chart of Gas Transmission and Distribution Compan) (SPA)   154
TABLES IN TEXT
5.1 Project Costs Summary .30
5.2   Project Financing  Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
5.3 Procurement Arrangements .33
MAPS
IBRD No. 25137 China Oil and Gas Resources






1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. OVERVIEW
Energy and the Environment
1.1         China is the third largest producer of energy in the world. In 1991, the
country's primary commercial energy supply and consumption amounted to 1,048 and
1,023 million tons of standard coal equivalent (tce), respectively.  Coal is the most
important source of energy, accounting for about 74 percent, and oil for 19 percent of the
total production. Hydroelectric power (4.6 percent), natural gas (2 percent), and small
quantities of shale oil and geothermal power make up the balance. Details of the primary
commercial energy production during the period 1949-91 are given in Annex 1. 1.
1.2          Few countries are as dependent on coal as China, with annual consumption
of about 1 billion tons. However, increased generation of coal-based energy is both a
corollary of economic growth and a major source of pollution.  In particular, the
combustion of bituminous coal is causing serious atmospheric pollution from airborne
particulates, and emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and carbon dioxide (CO). Rising coal
consumption in China has contributed to increasingly serious environmental ramifications,
both at the local and global levels. The Chinese authorities are aware of the need to
address environmental problems and recent official policy calls for economic development
to proceed in tandem with environrnental protection.
1.3         China has one of the world's fastest growing industrial economies. Over
the past decade, its GNP growth has averaged 13 percent per annum and economic growth
is expected to remain robust for this decade. Since the growth of energy supply has not
kept pace with demand, energy shortages are acute in the country. With a view to
sustaining both economic development and reduction of air pollution, efforts to enhance
both the supply of cleaner energy resources and the efficiency of energy use have been a
cornerstone of the country's energy and environmental policy.
1.4         It is commonly accepted that China has no realistic alternatives to depending
heavily on coal as its primary source of energy. Nevertheless, at the margin, rational
exploitation of natural gas would provide a cleaner and more efficient fuel and feedstock
option to meet the growing needs of an industrial economy. However, despite China's
high gas potential, gas exploration and development have been inadequate mainly due to
past neglect, financing constraints, and limited access to advanced technologies. Thus, a
coherent development strategy integrating energy with environmental considerations calls
for an increased emphasis on economic and efficient exploitation of natural gas. It is in
this context that the government has placed high priority on the proposed project.



-2-
Energy Resources
1.5         Coal. China has large coal deposits of which 30 percent are proven. In
1991, the country produced 1.1 billion tons of raw coal. By the year 2000, China aims
to produce 1.4 billion tons of coal a year. The best quality coals are found in North
China, particularly Shanxi and Inner Mongolia. However, insufficient transport capacity
makes it extremely difficult to move coal to the large consuming centers in Central and
East China.
1.6         Hydroelectric Potential. China is rich in water resources and has a long
tradition of harnessing them for energy and other uses. Of the country's hydroelectric
potential, onily about 9 percent of it has been developed. Most of the potential is located
in the southwest, notably Sichuan (70 percent), about 1,500 km away from the main
demand centers. The long gestation period for hydroelectric projects has also inhibited the
rapid development and utilization of hydroelectric resources.
1.7         Crude Oil. China's cumulative oil production has reached 2.3 billion tons.
Crude oil production was 142 million tons in 1992.
1.8         Natural Gas. In 1992, China produced 15.6 billion cubic meters of natural
gas. About 44 percent of the current gas production is nonassociated gas, mostly from
Sichuan Province. The remaining production is associated with onshore oil production.
1.9         Biomass. Noncommercial biomass energy use currently amounts to about
one quarter of total energy consumption in China. Fuelwood and agricultural straw and
stalks are the chief biomass fuels, and they are consumed almost entirely by rural
households.  China is promoting a variety of measures to achieve environmentally
sustainable biomass supply and consumption levels, including more efficient use of
biomass, tree planting, and substitution of other fuels for traditional biomass fuels.
Institutions of the Energy Sector
1.10        Until 1988, the Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) was in charge of all
the upstream activities in the oil and gas subsector, while the Ministry of Water Resources
and Power and the Ministry of Coal oversaw the respective subsectors of power and coal.
As part of the administrative reform in 1988, the responsibility for overseeing the entire
energy sector was consolidated under the Ministry of Energy (MOE). As a first step in
its major restructuring policy, the government transformed the former MOPI into a state-
owned enterprise, the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), which has continued
to report directly to the State Council. In May 1993, MOE was disbanded during a broad
government reorganization, and a new Ministry of Electric Power was established, along
with a Ministry of Coal. The newly established Economic and Trade Commission oversees
the overall national economic policy. The State Planning Commission, on behalf of the
State Council, has the responsibility for review and approval of the strategic plans,
investment programs and pricing policy of the energy sector.



Energy Investments
1.11        Energ) investments in the 1980s were planned based on an expected
economic growth rate of 7.5 percent a year. Actual economic growth rates exceeded this
target by a significant margin, which has exacerbated energy shortages already existing at
the outset. Under the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95), the Government has continued to
place high priority on infrastructure sectors, notably energy and transport, which are key
bottlenecks in economic development.  In 1992, China dedicated 3.4 percent and
1.7 percent of its Gross National Product (GNP), respectively, to develop infrastructure
for energy production and transportation.
B. ENERGY SECrOR ISSUES
1.12        In addition to the already noted shortages, the main energy sector issues in
China are: (a) the efficiency of energy supply and use; (b) the dominance of coal and
associated environmental problems; (c) improvement in scale and technology in energy
industries; (d) rationalization of energy pricing policies; and (e) institutional, regulatory
and enterprise reform.
Efficiency of Energy Use
1.13        China's energy consumption per capita is low, but consumption per unit of
GNP is high compared with other countries. The high share in GNP of industrial output,
the structure of industry, the use of inefficient technology, and inadequate energy
management practices are major factors that contribute to this. Efforts to improve the
efficiency of energy use have been a cornerstone of China's energy policy. Particular
progress has been made in building a strong institutional framework for energy
conservation. During 1980-92, China's energy intensity per unit of GNP fell by about
30 percent in real terms, and the elasticity of growth in energy use relative to GNP growth
was about 0.57 (Annex 1.2). Nevertheless, further improvements in energy efficiency are
crucial. Economic growth and energy supply targets for the 1990s imply that only about
one half of the increased energy services required will come from new energy supplies,
while the other half must come from energy efficiency improvements. This will require
major progress in addressing structural and systemic issues, especially in industry, as well
as still stronger programs to upgrade inefficient technology and strengthen energy
management.
Dominance of Coal and Associated Environmental Problems
1.14         Many of China's air pollution problems are related to the heavy use of coal
and its dispersed, smal!-scale application in industry and households. Unlike the situation
in most other countries, the electric power subsector is not the largest consumer of coal
in China (about 25 percent of the total). Environmental problems occur at every stage of
the coal chain; mining and disposal of mine waste, coal washing, transport and handling,
processing and combustion, and ultimately ash disposal. The ambient concentration of
particulates is the most serious problem; it is largely related to the dominant small-scale



-4 -
use of coal, its high-ash content (20-30 percent), and the often incomplete combustion.
The average sulfur content of the coal is relatively low (about 1.5 percent), but because
coal is used so extensively sulfur emissions are increasing.
1.15         The environmental implications of continued increases in coal use highlight
the need for the strict enforcement of environrmental regulations and more investment to
conserve coal and mitigate its environmental effects. Incorporation of modem technology,
achievement of suitable scale economies, and elimination of backward small-scale capacity
is a key to improving coal utilization in many subsectors such as thermal power generation.
The scope for substituting cleaner fuels remains limited. The country has insufficient
proven natural gas resources; its production of oil is increasingly absorbed by transport and
petrochemicals; and large hydropower resources are located far away from major
consuming centers.
Scale and Technology in Energy Industries
1.16         Coal Subsector. Over half of the coal produced in China comes from
small-scale mining operations. Exploitation of large coal reserves through uncoordinated
small-scale mining has often led to inefficiencies in production and a waste of coal
resources. In the larger mines, productivity and safety could be increased by making
greater use of mechanized systems and applying more efficient designs.
1.17         Power Subsector. Large-scale power development in China is beneficial
from the standpoint of both energy conservation and environmental protection. Modem
thermal power piants, with unit capacities of 600 MW, are about 20 percent more efficient
than smaller units. The boilers of the modem utilities also support better pollution control,
thus raising the efficiency of particulate removal.
1.18         Petroleum Subsector. In the petroleum subsector, there is a need to employ
more modem equipment and technology at all stages of exploration and development;
seismic survey and related data processing, exploratory drilling, and enhanced oil recovery
in order to increase production from  aging fields.  Improvements in operating and
maintenance practices are also needed to increase the efficiency of the subsector.
Energy Pricing
1.19         Energy price reform has proceeded steadily during recent years, resulting
in substantial increases in real energy prices. In the mid-1980s, dual-track energy pricing
was developed, whereby energy supplies allocated under the national plan were priced at
"in-plan" prices, at levels well below incremental production costs or border prices, while
higher, market-based prices were charged for energy supplied through the market ("outside
of the plan"). Over the years, in-plan prices have increased in real terrns, and perhaps
more importantly, the portion of energy allocated at in-plan prices has greatly declined.
1.20          By early 1993, the Government had declared its commitment to abolish low,
in-plan prices for all the chief forms of energy by the end of 1995, with the exception of



- 5 -
a few consumer categories (e.g., ammonia-based fertilizer producers). The country is now
in the process of completing this transition to market-driven prices. In general, average
consumer energy prices are now close to the economic costs of supply in the principal
demand centers.  Distortions remain, however, in both the structure of prices and
inequitable treatment of different producers and consumers, requiring further concerted
action to complete the transition to a truly efficient pricing system suitable for the
emerging market economy.
1.21         Coal supplied at market-driven prices now accounts for over three quarters
of coal consumption.  In January 1993, the Government announced its intention to
decontrol in-plan prices over the next three years, and followed through by cutting the
amount of coal supplied at in-plan prices by about one half. Market prices are generally
in line with the economic costs of domestic production and distribution and, in East China,
local market coal prices are close to or even above international price levels. Further
action is required, however, to fully remove production subsidies and reduce the substantial
losses still incurred by the coal industry.
1.22         While the average price levels of light petroleum  products are close to
international prices, average prices of crude oil and heavy fuel oil have been kept
substantially lower. The Government's intention is to complete the liberalization of crude
oil prices within the next three years. Producer prices for natural gas remain distorted and
should be adjusted to provide better incentives to find and develop more resources.
Further discussions on oil and gas pricing are in paras. 2.5-2.7.
Economic System and Enterprise Reform1/
1.23         The process of transformation from a command economy to a market-based
economic system was initiated in China in the late 1970s. In recent years, it has gained
momentum, fueled by past successes and the strong economic performance of the more
liberalized sectors of the economy. Considerable progress has been made in putting in
place the appropriate macroeconomic policy framework for the transition to a market-based
economy, from trade to price liberalization, to encouragement of foreign investment and
nonstate enterprise development, to decreased involvement of government agencies in the
management and operations of state enterprises. However, the process of reform has
tended to lag in the designated strategic sectors, including energy, which has continued to
operate under a highly centralized financial system. These sectors are dominated by large
state-owned enterprises, many of which are relatively inefficient and high-cost operations.
They are also burdened by social obligations and government policies which are
inconsistent with efficient and competitive company performance in a market-based
economy.
1.24         To address the above systemic issues in the country, enterprise reform has
been accorded high priority by the government in the latest initiatives to promote efficiency
1/    For detailed discussion please see 'China: Updating Economic Memorandum: Managing Rapid
Growth and Transition' (June 30, 1993, Report No. 11932-CHA).



-6-
gains through increased competition and market orientation. In this connection, the policy
framework governing the state-owned enterprises has been greatly improved by the recentl)
promulgated "Regulations on Transforming the Management Mechanisms of State-Owned
Industrial Enterprises" and "Regulations on Enterprises' Shareholding System Experiment".
Further, critical complementary efforts for financial sector, pricing, fiscal, housing and
social security system reforms have recently been launched by the government, with active
support by the Bank. These reform efforts are indicative of the government's resolve to
gradually transform the state enterprise system into a full-fledged independent corporate
structure. However, given the complexity and multi-dimensional nature of enterprise
reform, it will take time to complete the process.
C. ENERGY SECrOR STRATEGY
1.25        Sector reform now plays a central role in China's energy development
strategy. To reduce the prevailing energy shortages in today's environment of rapid
economic growth will require further major improvements in the efficiency of the supply
system, in domestic and foreign capital mobilization, and in energy use. The government
is committed to the reforms needed to make these improvements, including the
commercialization of enterprises, the achievement of greater enterprise autonomy with
respect to the government, regulatory and legal reforms to provide the framework for more
market-oriented enterprises, promotion of competition, completion of price reforms, and
adoption of a variety of new means to mobilize financing.
1.26        Efforts to improve the efficiency of energy use remain a cornerstone of
China's energy policy; it is well recognized that China's economic development goals
cannot be attained without further major efficiency gains. Focus on environmental issues
in China's energy policy also has increased sharply in recent years. While heavy reliance
on coal is an unescapable necessity in China, improvements in the efficiency of coal use
and reduction of pollution from coal are recognized as critical. The Government's strategy
in this area focuses on (a) strengthening environmental policy and regulation of emissions;
(b) restructuring and renovation of inefficient, polluting industrial capacity; (c) achievement
of greater efficiency and enhanced pollution control through development of large-scale
power and industrial plants which properly capture scale economies; (d) transfer and
development of more efficient and cleaner industrial process and coal utilization
technology; (e) promotion of cleaner fuels, notably gas, as alternatives to coal; (f) further
rationalization of energy prices and investment funding; and (g) deepening economic policy
and enterprise reforms in the sector.
D. BANK ROLE IN THE ENERGY SECrOR
1.27        The Bank has supported 13 projects in electric power development, 5 in
petroleum (including two natural gas projects), and one in coal. In all three subsectors,
Bank-financed operations have included support for technology transfer, modern
management practices, and the development of efficient, large-scale energy production.
In support of China's gradual transformation toward a market-based economy, the Bank's
assistance in the energy sector would continue to focus on the design and implementation



-7-
of instirutional and regulatory reforms, rationalization of energy pricing policy, economic
energy resource development in an environmentally sustainable manner, energy conser-
vation, transfer of appropriate modern technology and human resources development. The
Bank has also launched a program of technical assistance and sector work on institutional
development, regulatory and enterprise reforms for power and the oil and gas subsectors
(Chapter 2). Stepped up since 1992, the Bank's assistance program for power subsector
reform includes the successful completion of technical assistance on reform options
sponsored by the Bank's Institutional Development Fund, a Power Sector Strategy Paper
which is under preparation, and reform-oriented lending operations.
1.28        A continuing dialogue (on energy efficiency and the environment) with the
Government has been established through the completion of three joint studies, Efficiency
and Environmental Impact of Coal Use (Report No. 8915-CHA, 1991), the China Energy
Conservation Study (Report No. 10813-CHA, 1992) and an Environmental Strategy Paper
for China (Report No. 9669-CHA, April 1992). Further follow-up technical assistance and
preinvestment work is currently under way with support from the Global Environment
Facility, including a national strategy of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. Because the
issues involved concern the use of energy across the economy, assistance through the
lending program would continue to involve operations in a variety of sectors.






-8-
2. OIL AND GAS SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
2.1          China has had remarkable success in the development of its hydrocarbon
resources; it has been a net oil exporter for over two decades.  The growth of its
petroleum production during the period 1949-92 is presented in Annex 2. 1. However,
most of the major oil and gas producing fields in China are considered mature and many
of these fields have already experienced natural production decline. Moreover, certain
Chinese techniques, equipment and practices in hydrocarbon exploration and production
have become outmoded, and less efficient and effective than international industry
standards. Consequently, after three decades of continued increase in production, both oil
and gas production started to decline in 1980. It was at this critical juncture in the early
eighties that the Government of China first requested Bank assistance in the petroleum
sector. Following the implementation of various remedial measures, notably an intensive
campaign of infill drilling and well stimulation as well as development of new fields, oil
and gas production started to increase again, albeit slowly, in 1983. By 1992, oil and gas
production reached 142 million tons and 15.7 billion cubic meters (bcm), respectively.
The production of major oil and gas fields during the period 1988-92 is set out in
Annex 2.2.
2.2         In recent years, oil and gas production growth (I percent per annum) has
been outpaced by the growth in domestic demand (4 percent per annum) fueled by rapid
economic development in the country. As a result, increasing efforts in energy conserva-
tion notwithstanding, net oil/product export decreased sharply from 25 million tons in 1987
to about 9 million tons in 1992 (Annex 2.3). The decline in net oil export is expected to
continue (to an estimated 4 million tons in 1993) and China would likely become a net
oil/product importer in the near term. Separately, in the wake of increasing environmental
concerns and continued shortages of natural gas (a far cleaner fuel than coal), the Chinese
authorities are actively pursuing various options to augment gas supply, including both
domestic production and possible import of natural gas.
B. INVESTMENT STRATEGY
2.3          The government's latest oil and gas production targets (which have been
revised downward by some 20 percent from earlier targets) are to reach 165 million tons
and 20 bcm, respectively, by the year 2000. Continuing to increase production of oil and
gas will require a very large and sustained effort in exploration and development in the
country. This calls for a three-pronged approach in the sector's investment strategy:



-9-
(a)   to continue exploration and development around the presently producing oil
and gas fields (including the Sichuan basin) and undertake a series of well-
balanced infill drilling, rehabilitation and enhanced recovery programs in
these fields to ensure recovery rates comparable to those obtained in the
international industry;
(b)   to formulate and promote major new initiatives in exploration, notably in the
largely unexplored Tarim basin, to identify new reserves which could be
brought into production in the longer term; and
(c)   to promote diversification of nonassociated gas supplies beyond Sichuan,
including improved assessment of the potential of gas prone areas and
promote gas market development in those areas where reserves have already
been discovered, including the offshore Yacheng gas field in the South
China Sea (operated by an international joint venture partner, ARCO) and
the recently discovered Changqing gas field (Ordos Basin in Central China).
C. SECTORAL POLICY
2.4         In order to accelerate hydrocarbon exploration and development in the
country, critical sectoral constraints which exist in various aspects of technology,
management and financing need to be overcome. Toward this end, significant progress
has been made in improvements of the sectoral policy environment, including recent
reform initiatives toward (a) rationalization of energy pricing policy; and (b) further
opening up of petroleum concessions for foreign direct investment. In addition, with a
view to enhancing efficiency and competitiveness in an increasingly market-based economy
that is increasingly integrated into the world economy, the Chinese authorities are
committed to the implementation of a far-reaching program of institutional restructuring
in the oil and gas sector.
Pricing
2.5          Crude Oil. Despite recent efforts to increase crude oil prices (Annex 2.4),
the average level of crude oil has remained low, with some 28 percent of the production
in 1993 sold at state-controlled "low prices" [currently about Y 201-265/ton, depending
on the quality of oil ($3.24.2/bbl equivalent at the current exchange rate of Y 8.7 to $1)].
Moreover, with the multiple tier state-controlled and market pricing system, the present
structure of crude oil pricing is unduly cumbersome to administer. As part of the ongoing
efforts to deepen price reform, all the "low prices" of crude would be increased to the
same levels as "high prices" [currently about Y 520-595/ton ($8.2-9.4/bbl equivalent)] by
1994. Further, the government has announced its intention to complete the liberalization
of crude oil prices by 1995 to international price levels [currently about $16/bbl
(Y 1,000/ton equivalent)]. In this connection, free market pricing has already been
effected for all the crude production from foreign joint ventures and a very limited portion



- 10 -
(5 percent of production in 1993) from CNPC. Market-based pricinz also applies to joint
stock companies.
2.6          Petroleum  Products. Unlike crude oil prices, most of the petroleum
product prices in China are at or higher than export parity prices, with the exception of
state-controlled low prices (some 34 percent of total production) for selected consumer
categories (notably diesel fuel for farmers and fuel oil for certain enterprises in the
strategic sectors). Indeed, prices for gasoline and diesel fuel for transportation purposes
are now substantially higher than export parity prices.
2.7          Natural Gas. In recent years, the well-head prices of natural gas have been
inadequate to cover the full cost of exploration and production. In 1992, the average well-
head prices of gas were increased by some 40-50 percent to about Y 254/mcm and
Y 230/mcm, respectively, in Sichuan (nonassociated gas) and other regions (mainly
associated gas). In order to mobilize the necessary resources for sector development and
to provide adequate incentives for efficient supply and consumption of gas, further
improvements in both the levels and structure of gas pricing are indicated. Under the
proposed project, an assurance would be sought from the government on the
implementation of a time-bound action plan to reform gas pricing in Sichuan (para. 3.16).
Foreign Direct Investment
2.8         In the early 1980s, the government opened offshore petroleum concessions
to international oil companies (IOCs). During the last decade, 56 offshore petroleum
contracts have been concluded; foreign direct investment in exploration and development
has totalled $3.2 billion by end-1991. In 1986, the IOCs were also invited to explore and
develop onshore basins in eleven southern provinces. However, only five contracts have
thus far been concluded mainly because these areas appear to have relatively low prospects.
In early 1993, the government has renewed efforts to attract foreign direct investment; the
areas opened for onshore exploration and production increased to a total of 21 provinces,
autonomous regions and cities. Specifically, the IOCs have been invited to bid for
concessions in south eastern Tarim Basin (in March 1993) and eleven areas surrounding
major producing oilfields in ten northern and eastern provinces (in end-1993). Thus far,
64 IOCs have registered to bid for concessions in the Tarim. The second round of
international competitive bidding for additional concessions in the Tarim and other basins
was announced in earlv 1994. Expanded involvement of the IOCs in the sector would
augment the infusion of much needed capital resources and the transfer of technology and
management expertise.
2.9          However, gas is typically less attractive than oil to the IOCs. Further, gas
exploration and development in Sichuan involves complex geology, difficult production
conditions, and relatively high costs.  Moreover, in order to promote private sector
participation, the regulatory framework must provide for transparent and rational pricing
policy. Thus, the provisions for rationalization of gas pricing policy under this project
would help lay the ground for attracting IOC investments in the future. As a first step,
gas field development of the Datianchi structure in Sichuan is planned to be opened up for



- 11 -
joint venture with IOCs. The proposed project would include technical assistance for the
promotion of petroleum concession offers to international investors (Annex 5.4).
D. SECrOR ORGANIZATION
2.10         The organization of the petroleum industry in China has been in a state of
continuous change. The former Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) was first created
as a Bureau in the Ministry of Fuel in 1949. MOPI became a full ministry in 1955 and
oversaw all aspects of hydrocarbon exploration, development and transportation. In 1970,
MOPI was merged with the Ministry of Coal and the Ministry of Chemical Industry; these
ministries were split again in 1978. In 1988 MOPI was transformed into a state-owned
corporation, CNPC (para. 1.10), which continues to report directly to the State Council.
2.11         CNPC is in charge of all the onshore petroleum exploration and development
activities in China, including negotiations and administration of agreements with
international oil companies (through its subsidiary, the China Oil and Natural Gas
Exploration and Development Corporation). The China National Offshore Oil Corporation
(CNOOC), created in 1982, is responsible for all the offshore petroleum operations. The
Ministry of Geology is in charge of geological work. The Petrochemical Corporation of
China (SINOPEC), established in 1983, is responsible for most petroleum refining and
petrochemical production based on liquid petroleum feedstocks. The Ministry of Chemical
Industry (MCI) is responsible for petrochemical plants using natural gas and coal as
feedstocks. The China Chemical Industry Import/Export Corporation (SINOCHEM) is in
charge of oil and products trading. As part of a recent reform initiative, China United Oil
Company (SINO-OIL), a shareholding company with limited liability, has been established
by CNPC and Sinochem (each with 50 percent ownership). Sinoil's operations cover
import/export of oil and refined products as well as overseas investment in oil/gas
ventures. Separately, the shares of Shanghai Petrochemical Corporation started listing on
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in July 1993.
2.12         CNPC Organization. CNPC is a large state-owned enterprise; its charter
was issued by the State Council in 1988. It has 36 subsidiaries operating as separate legal
and accounting entities. Amongst this group, 22 are regional petroleum administrative
bureaus which are responsible for petroleum exploration and production, and 3 for oil/gas
transport. In addition, CNPC is affiliated with eight enterprises in the sector. The
organization chart of CNPC is presented in Chart 1.
2.13         CNPC is headed by a President who is appointed by the State Council. He
is assisted by four Vice Presidents. The total staffing of CNPC and its subsidiaries is in
the order of 1.4 million, of which about one million are employed in provision of auxiliary
services for oilfield support (including geophysical and geological service companies,
drilling and other oilfield auxiliary service companies, petroleum engineering and
construction companies, and petroleum research and educational institutes) and social
welfare (including employee housing, schools and hospitals).



- 12 -
E. SECTORAL RESTRUCTURING
2.14        Within the broad framework of economic and enterprise reform in the coun-
try, the oil and gas sector is faced with the challenge to implement a far-reaching program
of restructuring which would be basically completed by the year 2000.  The major
objective of the reforms in the oil and gas sector is to improve productivity and economic
efficiency and to promote the development of the sector. The major elements of the
restructuring program include (a) separating the governmental function from the
management of the enterprises, (b) commercializing and corporatizing the petroleum
administrative bureaus, (c) establishing the market for oil and gas exploration and
development compatible with international practices, (d) improving the legal and regulatory
system, and (e) transforming the oil and gas fields and other petroleum enterprises into
independent legal entities bearing full rights and obligations in the market competition.
Implementation of the first phase of restructuring the upstream oil and gas sector is a
component of the proposed project.  The government's intention to carry out the
restructuring program was confirmed in a policy letter to the Bank from the Ministry of
Finance (Annex 2.5). As part of project supervision, the Bank will review the progress
in implementation of the restructuring program.
2.15         CNPC Restructuring.  CNPC has established system  reform  units at
headquarters and in all of its operating subsidiaries, including the Sichuan Petroleum
Administration (SPA), the major beneficiary of the proposed project. Further, CNPC has
sought out the advice of the international community, notably the Bank, through such
vehicles as a workshop on petroleum sector management and reform held in China in July
1992 under the joint sponsorship of CNPC and the Bank/Energy Sector Management Assis-
tance Program (ESMAP). Consistent with the recommendations of this workshop,
remarkable progress has recently been made in resolving key policy issues in the sector,
including rationalization of energy pricing policy and further opening up of petroleum con-
cessions for foreign direct investment.
2.16        To build on and accelerate the reform momentum, CNPC is in the process
of preparing a comprehensive action plan within the framework of sectoral restructuring
noted above (para. 2.14). CNPC's reform program is being developed along the following
direction:
(a)   Transparency in the Separation of Government from  Enterprise
Nlanagement. CNPC will transfer its administrative function to the
government, and operate as a national state-owned company to manage and
supervise the state assets in its subsidiaries.  As a first step, the
administrative function formerly assumed by CNPC- with respect to the
approval of petroleum concessions for domestic oil companies is in the
process of being transferred to the government.  The government
departments concerned will focus on policymaking, regulatory formulation
and long term planning. The operations of CNPC will be free from direct
interference by government agencies.



- 13 -
(b)   Commercialization and Corporatization of Public Enterprises. Oil/gas
exploration and production units, auxiliary service units and social welfare
units of the petroleum administrative bureaus will be transformed into
independent legal entities. In accordance with the Chinese Company Law,
the aforementioned units will be restructured into limited liability companies
with different ownership structures, including state-owned and joint-stock
companies.
(c)   Setting up the Market for Oil and Gas Exploration and Development
and Creating a Competition Mechanism for Enterprises. Under the
proposed competition policy:  (i) oil companies would compete for
concessions under a "licensing system"; these companies could sell their
reserves to nonstate investors (foreign or local); and (ii) service companies
would engage in bidding for contracts across provincial boundaries. This
would, in turn, promote efficiency gains through competition and arms-
length (commercial) transactions between the oil/gas producers and the
service companies. The large number of service companies are expected to
be reduced gradually through mergers and closing down of companies which
are not competitive.
2.17        A local study team (comprised of CNPC and other relevant government
agencies) are collaborating with the Bank and international consultants financed under the
Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) to carry out a study which would provide an analytical
framework for building consensus on the detailed reform program. This study, which is
scheduled for completion in end-1994, would focus on the following aspects: (a) the estab-
lishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the oil and gas sector; in
addition to existing laws, such as the Mining Law and laws on international cooperation
for petroleum concessions, joint ventures and foreign direct investment, a petroleum law
will be developed as part of the sectoral reformn; (b) competition policy and market
development: and (c) CNPC institutional restructuring, including commercialization and
corporatization of CNPC entities, and diversification of ownership and financing. The first
phase of the study will develop pilot reform programs for the restructuring of two of
CNPC's subsidiaries, SPA and Dagang Petroleum Administration. These pilot programs
would be implemented during the second phase of the study, and the recommendations
emerging from this study would take into account the experience of the pilot programs.
The Terms of Reference for the restructuring study are in Annex 2.6.



- 14 -
3. GAS SUBSECTOR IN SICHUAN
A. BACKGROUND
3.1         Sichuan Province is located in southwestern China (see Map IBRD No.
25137). It is the most populous province in.the country, with about 110 million people
(representing some 10 percent of the country's population) for an area of about
570,000 km2. Its Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output (GVIAO) amounted
to Y 180 billion in 1990, accounting for about 6 percent of the national GVIAO. With
limited land and some 88 percent of its population being farmers, Sichuan is one of the
poorest provinces in the country; its per capita income of Y 896 ($180) was only 50
percent of the national average in 1990. Indeed, in part due to the government's earlier
focus on a "coastal development" strategy, the pace of development in inland provinces,
including Sichuan, has lagged considerably behind that in the coastal provinces. The
government is aware of the issues relating to increasing disparity of regional income and
the latest official plan points to greater concern to achieve more balanced regional
development. The proposed operation to support sustainable economic development in
Sichuan is consistent with the above regional development policy.
B. ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONNtENT
3.2         Sichuan is endowed with the country's largest potential for hydropower and
natural gas; however, both of these resources are underdeveloped (paras. 1.6, 1.8). By
contrast, the recoverable coal deposits in the province amount to only 1 percent of the
country's total. By 1990, 45 percent of the coal deposits in Sichuan had been exploited;
coal production was about 70 million tons in that year. However, coal in the province is
generally of low quality, with a high content of sulfur (3 percent) and ash (33 percent).
The reserves of crude oil (about 10 million tons) are too small to be developed
economicallv.
3.3         The consumption of primary comnmercial energy in Sichuan totalled about
63 million tce in 1990. Recent economic growth in the province has averaged about 10
percent p.a. Since the growth of energy supply has not kept pace with demand, energy
has continued to be a key bottleneck sector. As a result of severe gas shortages, industrial
production has been curtailed and an increasing number of industrial boilers have been
converted to burn coal instead of gas. The share of natural gas in the commercial energy
consumption of the.province decreased from 19 percent in 1979 to 11 percent in 1990,
while the share of coal increased from 68 percent to 74 percent. During the same period,
the share of hydropower increased slightly from 8.5 percent to 10 percent while that of



- 15 -
petroleum products has remained stable at about 4 percent.  The commercial energy
balance in Sichuan during the period 1970-90 is set out in Annex 3.1.
3.4         As a result of rising coal consumption, the already serious environmental
ramifications (notably acid rain/smog and global warming) and related health problems
have been exacerbated. In particular, there are reports of serious respiratory problems and
a high incidence of lung cancer in Chongqing Municipality (Sichuan) which has some of
the highest ambient concentrations of particulates and SO2 in the world. In this connection,
the environmental advantages of natural gas render its development and targeted use a cost-
effective strategy to mitigate environmental degradation at the regional and global levels.
As part of a coherent energy and environmental strategy in the province, both the ongoing
Bank-financed Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-CHA) and the proposed Sichuan
gas operation aim at supporting economic and efficient supply and use of cleaner energy
resources, hydropower and natural gas, respectively.
C. NATURAL GAs PRODUCTION
3.5          Since the 1960s, Sichuan province has been a significant gas producing area;
its gas production reached 6.5 bcm (representing 42 percent of the total gas production in
the country) in 1992. Currently, about 83 producing gas fields spread over a sedimentary
basin of approximately 180,000 lan2. The total proven and probable reserves are presently
estimated at about 400 bcm and 140 bcm, respectively. Sichuan basin is divided into five
major gas producing regions: east, south, southwAest, northwest and central. The gas field
development component of the project is located in Eastern Sichuan, which is the largest
gas producing region in the province, accounting for about 3 bcm (or 47 percent) of the
total gas production in 1992. The total proven and probable reserves of Eastern Sichuan
are presently estimated at about 200 bcm and 94 bcm, respectively.
3.6          SPA is the predominant gas producer in Sichuan, accounting for 6.4 bcm
or 98 percent of the gas production in 1992. Separately, the South West Petroleum
Geological Bureau (under the Ministry of Geology) and the Shallow Gas Company (under
the Sichuan provincial government) together account for most of the balance (2 percent)
of the gas production. In addition, there are a few small scale gas companies that belong
to the counties.
3.7          Mainly due to complex geology and difficult operating conditions, coupled
with outmoded technology and equipment, operating problems and inefficiencies exist in
a broad spectrum of gas field activities (Annex 5. 1). In particular, production problems,
notably severe water incursion, have become increasingly serious. Further, many of the
producing fields in Sichuan are aging and declining in production. Consequently, in the
early eighties, gas production in Sichuan fell by some 20 percent from its 1979 peak level
(6.5 bcm). Recent remedial measures have slowed the natural decline and, coupled with
the development of new gas fields, gas production has increased steadily, reaching the
previous peak level in 1992.



- 16 -
3.8          Gas Resources Conservation. Under the recentiv completed Weivuan Gas
Field Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2580-CHA), a diagnostic study on the
rehabilitation of the Weiyuan field was carried out with the assistance of international
consultants. This study concluded that a major lesson learned from the development
experience of Weiyuan is that suboptimal development schemes with excessive flow rates
(over-production) have resulted in extensive reservoir damage and consequently lost
opportunities for recovering gas resources from these reservoirs. To enhance ultimate gas
recovery and resources conservation at the field level, the proposed project would support
the adoption of sound reservoir management practices.  Separately, it is common
international practice to safeguard against wastage of energy resources through the
establishment of maximum well rate limits by an independent regulatory agency. This
aspect will be addressed by the ongoing JGF-financed study on oil/gas sector restructuring
(para. 2.17).
D. GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBLrION
3.9          The five main gas producing regions in Sichuan are linked together by SPA's
transmission and distribution (T&D) system which comprises a closed loop pipeline grid
and a number of spurs (totalling about 2800 km in length). SPA supplies about 5.8 bcm
of natural gas per year directly to about 600 large industries and fifteen major city gas
companies (which account for 90 percent of city gas consumption). About one million
households, small industries and commercial entities are supplied through 59 city gas
companies.
3.10         Most of SPA's T&D system is 12-20 years old. Largely due to financing
constraints and inadequate economic/financial incentives, there is a large backlog of invest-
ments required to rehabilitate the transmission and distribution system.  Thus, it is
operating under precarious condition and is prone to breakdowns, accidents and gas
leakages. Based on the results of a recently completed diagnostic study financed under the
Preinvestment Facility (PRIF) of GEF, the proposed project would include support for
priority investments to rehabilitate SPA's T&D system (paras. 5.11-5.14).
3.11         Safety Regulation. SPA, in its capacity as an administrative bureau, is
responsible for the enforcement of design and operational standards as well as safety
regulations for the gas sector. However, as an operating agency, SPA is not best suited
to enforce these standards. As part of the ongoing sector restructuring, it is envisaged that
an independent regulatory agency would be established to oversee the enforcement of
standards and safety regulations in Sichuan Province. This aspect will be addressed under
the aforementioned oil/gas sector restructuring study.
E. GAS CONSUMPTlON
3.12         The consumption pattern of gas in Sichuan has remained stable over the past
five years (Annex 3.2). In 1992, about 54 percent of the gas was used as feedstocks/fuels
for fertilizer production in Sichuan (40 percent) and two of its neighboring provinces,
Yunnan (7 percent) and Guizhou (7 percent). In addition, about 11 percent of the gas was



- 17 -
used for other chemical industries.  The balance of the gas was mainly used as an
industrial fuel, of which the metallurgical sector (11 percent) and the machinery sector (7
percent) were the major users. The share of residential uses was about 6 percent while
that of commercial uses was less than 1 percent.
3.13         China is the world's largest consumer and importer of chemical fertilizers.
Thus, in rationing the use of scarce natural gas resources, the government has placed first
priority on fertilizer production. Under the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95), two large
fertilizer plants, which are under construction, will consume some 60 percent of the
planned increase of gas supply (1 bcm) in Sichuan. The balance of the increased gas supply
would be allocated mainly to other chemical industries and residential uses.
F. GAS PRICING AND ALLOCATION POLICY
3.14         Gas Pricing.  Over the past few years, escalations of exploration and
production costs have outpaced the increases of well-head prices of gas. As a result, SPA,
the major gas producer, has increasingly suffered operational losses for its exploration and
production activities (para. 6.10). A significant step has recently been taken toward the
rationalization of gas pricing; in 1992, the average level of well-head prices in Sichuan
increased by about 50 percent (from Y 160/mcm to about Y 254/mcm). Further, the
pricing and allocation of a limited portion of the total gas production (12 percent in 1993)
has been deregulated; the current market price is about Y 400/mcm. However, to mobilize
the necessarv resources for sector development and to provide adequate incentives for effi-
cient supply and consumption of gas, the average levels of well-head prices in Sichuan
would have to be increased further.
3.15         Gas Allocation. There is a wide disparity in the economic value of current
major gas uses. While the major gas uses yield positive economic benefits, the allocation
of the scarce gas resources have not always been optimized on the basis of economic and
environmental considerations. In particular, the allocation of existing gas supply has not
covered power generation even though gas offers the prospect of both cheaper power
generation and less pollution in many countries. Thus, there is scope for improvements
in the criteria for gas allocation with a view to enhancing both the economic and
environmental benefits of gas.
3.16         Reform  Action Plan.  To provide an analytical framework for the
formulation of a reform program, a study on Sichuan gas allocation and pricing was re-
cently completed with the assistance of international consultants financed under the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Broad agreement has been reached on the
study's recommendations for economic-efficient principles that the Sichuan authorities
would apply in the allocation and pricing of natural gas. Specifically, gas allocation
criteria should reflect the relative economic values and environmental considerations of
different gas uses. In this connection, new allocations of gas would include peak power
generation and residential uses. The above gas uses are expected to yield relatively high
economic benefits as well as significant reduction in air pollution.  Separately, the
minimum average levels of gas supply price should be no less than the average incremental



- 18 -
cost. In addition, with a view to fostering end-users' efficiency, the structure of gas
pricing would be improved through gradual reduction, if not removal, of cross subsidies
between different categories of consumers. Based on the above principles, an agreement
has been reached with the government on a reform action plan. Since project appraisal,
the government has approved an average well-head price increase by Y 200/mcm in 1994
(representing some 80 percent increase from the 1993 average price level). However, in
light of the recent changes in exchange rates and higher projected local inflation rates than
anticipated at the time of project appraisal, further gas price adjustments would be required
to ensure the financial soundness of the project and SPA overall (Chapter 6).  An
understanding has been reached with the government that it would annually send a rolling
gas pricing reform action plan to the Bank and exchange views with the Bank on this plan.
During negotiations, an assurance has been obtained from the government that it would
implement the agreed reform action plan for gas pricing and allocation, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
G. ENERGY CONSERVATION
3.17         Acute gas shortages are expected to continue in Sichuan in the foreseeable
future. The pressing need for promoting energy conservation is thus compelling both from
the economic and environmental viewpoints. Since the early 1980s, effective institutional
arrangements, for encouragement and implementation of energy conservation measures in
industry and in other sectors, have been established in Sichuan. Particular emphasis has
been placed on energy conservation in the three most energy-intensive industrial
subsectors, chemicals (including fertilizers), metallurgy and machine building.  The
strategy followed was the classical sequence of (a) improvements in housekeeping; (b)
retrofitting; and (c) process modernization. The program  has been successful.  It is
estimated that over 70 million tce have been saved since 1981. Nevertheless, considerable
potential still exists for further energy conservation in the province, particularly in
industry, although larger investments are likely to be required to maintain the rates of
savings previously achieved. An essential element in ensuring continuing success for the
program will be the raising of energy prices to their economic levels as rapidly as possible.
Detailed discussions on energy conservation in Sichuan are set out in Annex 3.5. An
understanding has been reached with the government that it would exchange views with
the Bank-, from time to time, on the progress in the implementation of energy conservation
measures in Sichuan.
H. LESSONS LEARNED FRONM EARLIER BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.18         Bank participation in the gas sector in China has thus far included two
operations which were completed recently: Weiyuan Gas Field Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2580-CHA) and Liaodong Bay Petroleum Appraisal and Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2708-CHA). The lessons learned from these projects include: (a) fragmenta-
tion of responsibilities among various Chinese agencies, coupled with cumbersome internal
clearance procedures, contributed to significant delays in initial procurement activities of
the Weiyuan Project; in contrast, the streamlined procurement arrangements under the
Liaodong Bay Project contributed to the timely implementation of the project; (b) delays



- 19 -
in the implementation of institution building components could be mitigated through
reaching agreements on the training program and the Terms of Reference for consultant
services no later than negotiations, and (c) strong project management offices with
adequate staff to provide requisite coordination among multiple agencies are crucial for
efficient project implementation.
3.19        In addition, according to "A Review of World Bank Lending for Natural
Gas" (Report No. 10828), the principal lessons learned included: (a) the Bank's assistance
has had most impact on improving the technical capacity of gas institutions, particularly
where there were twinning arrangements with an internationally experienced foreign
operating company or gas utility; and (b) a major weakness of the Bank's institutional
development approach was its strategy of trying to do everything at once; a more long term
view was needed, given that the goals of institutional development generally will not be
achieved within the time span of one project. The design of the proposed project has built
on the above lessons learned from earlier Bank operations.



- 20 -
4. THE BENEFICIARY
A. INTRODucrION
4.1         SPA, the major beneficiary of the proposed project, is responsible for the
implementation of the investment component. Separately, CNPC is responsible for the
implementation of the national petroleum education component. In addition, both SPA and
CNPC are responsible for the implementation of the restructuring and institution building
components. The organization of CNPC is discussed in paras. 2.12-2.13.
B. SICHUAN PETROLEuM ADMINISTRATION
Legal Status and Organization
4.2         The Southwest Petroleum Exploration Department (SPED), the predecessor
of the Sichuan Petroleum Administration (SPA), was established in 1952. After the
discovery of three gas fields, SPED was renamed SPA in 1958. SPA is a state-owned
enterprise under the leadership of its parent company, CNPC. It is a separate legal and
accounting entity. Its main business includes petroleum exploration, production, storage,
transportation, processing, as well as production and sale of other minerals encountered
during well drilling. Its ancillary business includes, the manufacturing and repairing of
specialized oil and gas machinery and instruments. SPA's charter, which was first issued
by CNPC in 1990, has been revised in May 1993 to reflect the deepening of enterprise
reforms in China. In particular, consistent with the guiding principle of the ongoing
reforms to separate governument administration from enterprise management, a Board of
Directors would be established to oversee the operations of SPA. The Board would
comprise a chairman and seven members.
4.3          SPA is headed by a President appointed by CNPC. He is assisted by a
Senior Vice President and five Vice Presidents. Hitherto, SPA has operated as a single
legal entity with no subsidiaries. Its headquarters has 24 departments to oversee its broad
spectrum of activities which are carried out by 30 subunits. Its core operational subunits
include five exploration and production (E&P) companies, namely the East Sichuan Gas
Production Company (the major subunit responsible for the implementation of the proposed
investment component), the Central Sichuan Mining District (responsible for the proposed
rehabilitation project component in Central Sichuan), the South West Mining District (the
beneficiary of the Weiyuan Gas Field TA Project), South Sichuan Mining District and the
North West Mining District. In addition, SPA has subunits which are specialized service
companies, including seismic surveys, well drilling, logging, surface facility construction,
down-hole service, design and research. Further, SPA is also engaged in machinery



- 21 -
manufacrurin2 and repairing as well as a wide array of social obligations (notably employee
housing, schools and hospitals). The company's organization chan is in Chart 2.
4.4          Gas Transmission Reorganization. Until recently, the responsibility for
plarning and operation of SPA's transmission and distribution system was divided between
the five gas producing subunits, notably the East Sichuan Gas Production Company, and
headquarters' Transmission and Distribution Department.  This led to a lack of
coordination and procedural consistency in the operation and maintenance of the system.
It also resulted in a lack of accountability at the senior management level. This, in turn,
contributed to the release of nonspecification gas into the system. Similarly, long-term
plans for the operation and development of the system have never been drawn up and its
maintenance and capacity expansion have remained underfunded. SPA recognizes that
without an efficient transmission and distribution system, linking the gas resources with
the markets, efficient development of the gas sector would not be possible. Thus, SPA
recently established the Gas Transmission and Distribution Company (GTDC),
consolidating all the transmission and distribution operations into a single subunit which
will be fully accountable for efficient transportation of gas from the fields to major
consumers and the city gas companies. The organization chart of GTDC is in Chart 3.
Restructuring Framework
4.5          Consistent with CNPC's overall reform  direction (para. 2.16), the
organization of SPA will be restructured as part of the process to enhance efficiency and
productivity. As noted above (para. 2.17), the first phase of the ongoing JGF-financed
study will develop a comprehensive pilot program for the restructuring of SPA; the pilot
program would be implemented during the second phase of the study.
4.6          The broad areas of SPA's reforrn efforts required would cover both the
external policy (enabling) environment and the internal organization and management of
SPA, including: (a) rationalization of gas pricing and allocation; (b) improvements of
SPA's productivity; (c) commercialization and corporatization of SPA; and (d)
diversification of ownership and financing.
4.7          SPA is presently overstaffed, particularly in its auxiliary service operations.
Its output per employee is about 60 ton oil equivalent (toe) or 40 percent below the
national average (100 toe). In order to improve productivity to at least 200 toe per
employee (the target set by CNPC), SPA is faced with a formidable challenge to reduce
its staff from the present level of 108,000 to about 75,000 and 50,000 targeted for 1995
and the year 2000, respectively. Toward this end, SPA has planned to gradually spin off
its auxiliary service companies. Further, as part of the process to commercialize SPA,
housing reform will be launched shortly and other social functions of the enterprise will
also be gradually spun off. During the transitional period, SPA would continue to provide
active support for surplus workers in identifying job opportunities and/or setting up their
own businesses (notably in the service sector).



- 2_) -
4.8           Separatel], with a view to diversifying ownership and financing, SPA is
seeking the approval of CNPC and the government to: (a) transform six SPA subsidiaries
into joint-stock, companies; and (b) open up petroleum concessions in Sichuan for direct
foreign investment. As a first step, gas field development of the Datianchi structure is
planned to be opened up for joint venture with international oil companies.  In this
connection, rationalization of gas pricing policy is critical for promoting both foreign and
domestic investment in the gas sector.
Staff Training
4.9          With a view  to enhancing the operational, managerial and financial
capabilities of SPA, the proposed project would include an institution building component
for the implementation of the components for oil and gas sector restructuring and for gas
production and transmission (paras. 5.15-5.18).






- 23 -
5. THE PROJECT
A. RATIONALE FOR BANK PARTICIPATION
5.1         The proposed project is part of the Bank's multidimensional assistance to
China designed to promote efficiency gains and sustainable development through economic
policy and enterprise reforms as well as alleviation of energy shortages in an
environmentally sound manner. During the course of project preparation, the Bank has
engaged in an active policy dialogue with the Chinese authorities who are committed to a
far-reaching reform program in the oil and gas sector.  In particular, the Bank was
instrumental in effecting up-front actions in improvements of the sectoral policies for
pricing and foreign direct investment. Further, as a first step toward corporatization and
transparency in separation of ownership and management, a board of directors would be
established at SPA. Moreover, Bank participation in the conceptualization of this project
has contributed to growing appreciation of the Chinese authorities for an increased
emphasis on natural gas development and conservation on both economic and
environmental grounds. The Bank has also contributed to improvements in the project
design through the initiation and monitoring of various policy and preinvestment studies.
Finally, the proposed operation would support the implementation of the first phase of
restructuring the upstream oil and gas sector. The good practices learned under this
project would have a significant demonstration effect for the reforms of other public
enterprises in China.
B. RATIONALE FOR GEF FUNDING
5.2          Based on the results of a recently completed diagnostic study financed under
the GEF (Global Environment Facility) Preinvestment Facility (PRIF), an amount of SDR
7.3 million ($10 million equivalent) grant from the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET)
would help finance the much needed rehabilitation of SPA's transmission and distribution
system. The environmental benefits of this project component are clear in that reductions
in natural gas leaks will reduce fugitive methane emission, a potent greenhouse gas.
Global warming concerns are directly addressed since fugitive methane enters the
atnosphere where its global warming potential is some 20 times that of CO2. Successful
implementation of this project component would have a significant demonstration effect for
other gas transmission and distribution systems in China and other developing countries.
C. PROJECT OBJECrlVES
5.3          The proposed project aims to: (a) support the implementation of the
upstream oil and gas sector restructuring; (b) rationalize both the levels and structure of



- 24 -
gas pricing; (c) promote rational gas allocation; (d) reduce acute gas shortacges and
environmental degradation in Sichuan through increased gas production (and avoidance of
coal consumption) and energy conservation, including reduction of gas leakages (which
would, in turn, reduce the emissions of methane and greenhouse gas effect); (e) improve
the efficiency of gas production and enhance the ultimate gas recovery and resources
conservation through sound reservoir management and state-of-the-art enhanced gas
recovery technology; (f) enhance the safety, reliability and operational efficiency of the gas
transmission and distribution system; and (g) strengthen the institutional capabilities of
CNPC and SPA.
D. PROJEc-r DEsCRHrION
5.4          The project design is based on various policy and preinvestment studies
carried out with the assistance of international consultants financed with funds from the
international community, including Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) II (Credit 1664-
CHA), $1.9 million; Japanese Grant Facility (JGF), $1.2 million; United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), $250,000; and Preinvestment Facility (PRIF) of the
Global Environmental Facility (GEF), $1.4 million.
5.5          The project would comprise the following three main components.
(a)   A Restructuring Component. Implementation of the first phase of the
upstream oil and gas sector restructuring program, based on the
recommendations  of  an  ongoing  restructuring  study,  including
commercialization  and corporatization  of CNPC/SPA  through  their
transformation into joint-stock companies, introduction of a commercial
accounting system and implementation of productivity enhancement and
related human resources development programs (paras. 2.14-2.17).
(b)   An Investment Component (98 percent of project cost).
(i)   development of proven gas reserves in about 14 selected gas fields
in East Sichuan through drilling of about 100 infill development
wells; seismic survey and interpretation; and construction of surface
facilities consisting of gas gathering systems, gas dehydration and
desulfurization plants, and appropriate scheme for disposal of
produced formation water (62 percent);
(ii)   rehabilitation of old gas wells, about 90 in East Sichuan and 100 in
Central Sichuan, through work-over, reservoir stimulation and well
recomprztion techniques (15 percent);
(iii) expansion of SPA's gas transmission system (9 percent); and
(iv)   rehabilitation and environmental upgrade of SPA's gas transmission
and distribution systems (12 percent).



- 25 -
(c)   An Institution Building Component (2 percent of project cost).
Technical assistance and training for the implementation of the above two
components as well as for national petroleum education.
Gas Field Development/Rehabilitation Subcomponent
5.6          During the last decade, several small to medium size gas fields were
discovered in Eastern Sichuan.  However, these discoveries are deep and contain
substantial quantities of hydrogen sulfide (H2S). As a result, development of these fields
has been hampered by SPA's lack of specialized modem technology and equipment.
Unless these fields are developed adequately, Sichuan's gas production could start to
decline as early as 1995 at a rate of about 10 percent per year. To delay and reduce its
production decline, SPA would require significant increases of investments for gas field
development and rehabilitation and induction of appropriate modern technology and
equipment. The proposed upstream component would support SPA's priority investment
in this endeavor. Detailed discussions of the proposed upstream components are in Annex
5.1.
5.7          The reserve estimate has been confirmed by an independent gas reserve
assessment study which was recently completed by TCC-financed international consultants.
Separately, geological and geophysical work carried out over recent years indicates that
Sichuan basin's gas resource base could be much larger than now projected, particularly
in East Sichuan where about 80 potential structures have not yet been fully explored.
However, these structures are in deep complex geological formations where drilling and
production conditions are becoming increasingly more difficult and costly. Exploring and
developing these structures would require enormous incremental investments and would
entail exploration related risks. In this connection, SPA is in the process of seeking CNPC
and governmnent approval for opening up concessions for direct foreign investment. The
proposed project would include technical assistance to SPA for petroleum development
promotion to potential international investors (Annex 5.4).
5.8          The main objectives of the proposed upstream components are to:
(a)   delay overall gas production decline in Sichuan and yield a total incremental
gas production of about 68 billion cubic meters (bcm) over a 20-year period
(1995-2015);
(b)   improve field productivity (by 10 to 30 percent) and enhance the ultimate
gas recovery (from the current level of about 40 percent to 70 percent) and
conservation of gas resources at the field level; and
(c)   enhance overall field environment and safety through adequate purification
of sour gas and efficient treatment and disposal of produced forrnation water
and other field wastes.
5.9          Toward these ends, the proposed project would assist SPA in:



- 26 -
5.9           Toward these ends, the proposed project would assist SPA in:
(i) acquiring state-of-the-art technology, equipment and materials (for
geophysical surveys and gas well drilling, completion and
production) which are highly critical for some of the most
operationally difficult gas fields;
(ii)   installing efficient gas treatment facilities for the incremental gas
production particularly with regard to gas desulfurization and
dehydration;
(iii)   installing adequate subsurface  injection systems and  treatment
facilities for disposal of produced formation water and other field
wastes;
(iv)   introducing effective field operating techniques such as high pressure
hydraulic fracturing of tight gas reservoirs, multiwell pad directional
and horizontal drilling and infill seismic for new well locations; and
(v)    enhancing the institutional capability of its personnel through
technical assistance and training.
Gas Transmission Expansion Subcomponent
5.10          SPA's gas transmission and distribution system in the eastern region would
be expanded for additional gas supply from field development. To ensure safety and
system integrity and to increase the life expectancy of the gas transmission and distribution
system, only dry and sweet gas (in accordance with the specifications) would be allowed
to enter the pipelines. Toward this end, appropriate locations of the gas purification plants
and other arrangements to ensure the safety of the system will be determined through an
ongoing study being carried out by SPA with the assistance of international consultants.
During negotiations, an agreement has been obtained that arrangements to ensure the
safety of the expansion of the gas transmission and distribution system, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be required prior to the disbursements for this component.
Gas Transmission Rehabilitation Subcomponent
5.11          A PRIF-financed diagnostic study has evaluated the gas transmission and
distribution system's integrity, efficiency and reliability and determine the most efficient
measures for its rehabilitation, including measures to reduce methane emission reduction.
The main findings of the study are summarized as follows: (a) the integrity of the system
is threatened; 110 pipe failure accidents were reported during the past two decades. In the
absence of adequate remedial measures, further de.erioration of the system would result
in an increasingly high risk of accidents which would jeopardize the safety of the general
public, disrupt gas supply to customers and increase greenhouse gas emissions; (b) internal
corrosion in the pipelines due to release of sour gas into the transmission system is the



- 27 -
most serious problem; (c) almost all of the methane emissions from the SPA gas system
are due to fugitive equipment leaks, notably control and block valves; (d) in emergencies,
the grid control system cannot efficiently respond to rapid changes in the operating
conditions; and (e) until recently, the responsibility for the operation of the system was
divided between several departments and there was a lack of accountability at senior
management level.
5.12         To address the above issues, a risk-averse, least cost rehabilitation program
has been formulated under above the diagnostic study. The remedial measures would
include (a) installation of adequate gas treatment facilities and only dry and sweet gas (in
accordance with the specifications) would be allowed to enter the pipelines,
(b) rehabilitation and environmental upgrading of the transmission and distribution system
that would mitigate the risk and would enable optimal upgrading and expansion for safe
and efficient operation as well as environmental protection over the next 20 years,
(c) enhancement of safety regulation, and (d) institution building through technical
assistance (TA) and training. Moreover, as recommended by the study, all the functions
relating to gas transmission and distribution operation has recently been consolidated into
a single subunit (SPA T&D Company) which is fully accountable for efficient
transportation of gas from the fields to the consumers. Further discussions on the findings
and recomnmendations of the study, and the proposed project component along with the
Terms of Reference for TA in project implementation, are set out in Annex 5.2.
5.13         Under the proposed project, measures which would enhance both the safety
and operational efficiency of the transmission and distribution system would include
(a) rehabilitation and upgrading of pipelines, measurement, corrosion control, corrosion
inhibition, telecommunication, gas control, gas quality monitoring and emergency response
facilities of SPA's entire gas transmission and distribution system; (b) deterioration
monitoring and evaluation of the transmission and distribution system; (c) provision of a
supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA) for the whole transmission and
distribution system; and (d) technical assistance and training.
5.14         In addition, the project would include cost-effective measures for reduction
in gas leakages. The program of environmental upgrades would include (a) installation of
additional valves at the vent stacks of both the gas gathering and transmission systems;
(b) installation of chained caps or plugs on open ended pipelines; (c) upgrading or
replacement of the seals of control valves; (d) replacement of high performance compressor
seals; (e) upgrading of the seals. of block valves; and (f) the implementation of
comprehensive gas leak detection and repair programs, including repairs or replacement
of leaking valves (including control valves, block valves and pressure relief valves);
plugging of open-ended lines; and provision for methane emission monitoring equipment.
Institution Building Component
5.15         In connection with the various preinvestment studies for gas reserve
assessment, gas transmission and distribution rehabilitation, as well as environmental
assessment, transfer of technology and human resources development have been augmented



- 28 -
through overseas study tours and on-the-job training by international consultants. In
addition, the project would include a comprehensive program of technical assistance and
training for the implementation of the components for oil and gas sector restructuring and
for gas production and transmission, as well as for national petroleum education. The
draft training program and related cost estimates are shown in Annex 5.3. An assurance
has been obtained from SPA and CNPC that training would be carried out in accordance
with a program agreed with the Bank.
5.16        Oil and Gas Sector Restructuring.  This component would include
technical assistance to SPA for the promotion of petroleum concession offer to international
investors (Terms of Reference in Annex 5.4) as well as training in modern management
and tariff setting. In this connection, the JGF-financed study for oil and gas sector
restructuring would include identification of staffing and skills required to implement the
reform program and preparation of an appropriate training program for CNPC and SPA.
5.17        Gas Field Development and Transmission. The TA and training program
for gas production and transmission would include twinning arrangements with
international companies, training seminars in China and overseas study tours to cover a
broad spectrum of SPA's operations.
5.18        Financial Management. The project would include overseas training and
seminars in China conducted by international consultants; these provisions would
complement training by local institutes which is beyond the scope of the project. The
scope of training would include accounting principles and practices of international oil and
gas companies; corporate financial management, notably cost control/management and
modern financing techniques; pricing policy and tariff setting, taxation policy and gas
marketing.
5.19        National Petroleum Education. Building on the experience of the national
petroleum education component under the recently completed Weiyuan Gas Field TA
Project, the main objectives of the proposed petroleum education component ($5 million)
are to: (a) upgrade the teaching and research capabilities of the local petroleum institutes;
(b) develop exchange programs between the local and foreign institutes; (c) meet a growing
demand for highly qualified personnel in technical, managerial and financial skills; and (d)
introduce and develop advanced oil and gas field technologies.
5.20        As an immediate first step, a diagnostic review would be carried out by the
Education Department of CNPC, with the assistance of international experts, to assess the
needs for strengthening the teaching and research programs in a broad spectrum of
disciplines (including petroleum geology, geo. hysics, petroleum engineering, mechanical
engineering, chemical engineering, business management, computer science, and general
education). Based on the results of the diagnostic review, the details of the proposed
education component would be better defined. This component would include: (a) short
and medium term overseas training; (b) international experts lecturing in China; and (c)
teaching materials and computer software. The Terns of Reference for the diagnostic
study are attached in Annex 5.5.



- 29 -
E. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MIANAGEMNIENT
5.21        SPA is responsible for the implementation of the gas field development and
transmission components and CNPC for the petroleum education component. SPA has
established a Project Management Office (PMO) to coordinate the various project
components. An assurance has been obtained from SPA that it would maintain the project
management office with functions, powers, funds, facilities and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank.
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.22        The proposed project would be implemented over a seven-year period from
1994-2000. The project is estimated to be completed by June 30, 2000, and the loan
closing date would be June 30, 2001.
G. PROJECT CosT ESTIMATES
5.23        Project cost estimates are based on preinvestment studies prepared with the
assistance of local design institutes and international consultants. The unit prices were
derived through a reconciliation of data from the following sources: (a) quotations obtained
from manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts in
China; and (c) construction costs according to prices published by the governrment, adjusted
for inflation. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the base costs
(in early 1993 prices). The price escalation for costs expressed in terms of local currency
equivalent is calculated according to the following projected local inflation rates:  15
percent per annum in 1993, 12 percent per annum in 1994, 9 percent per annum in 1995,
8 percent per annum in 1996, 7.2 percent per annum in 1997, 6.5 percent per annum in
1998 and 1999, and 6 percent per annum in the year 2000. The price escalation for costs
expressed in terrns of US dollars equivalent is calculated according to anticipated
international price escalation of 2.8 percent per annum.
5.24        The total project cost (excluding interest during construction) is estimated
at $877.9 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $377.4 million
equivalent (43 percent).   The total financing required, including interest during
construction ($67.3 million) is $945.2 million equivalent.
H. PROJECT FINANCING
5.25        The financing plan for the overall project is shown in Table 5.2.



l able 5.1: PROJECT COSTS SUNINIARY
Foreign
Local      Foreign         Total        Local      Foreign          Total      as % of
-------------- ($ million) --------------  -------------- (Y million) -------------  Total
Gas Field Development
- Well Drilling                                 195.4        130.6        326.0       1,705.8       1,140.1      2,845.9         40
- Seismic Surveys                                19.4         11.1         30.5         169.4         96.9         266.3         36
- Surface Facilities                            22.0          21.3         43.3         192.0        185.9         377.9         49
Gas Dehydration & Desulfurization                 32.2         18.9          51.1        281.3         165.0        446.3         37
Gas Field Stimulation & Rehabilitation            68.1         24.1          92.2        594.5         210.4        804.9         26
Gas Transmission Expansion                        34.5         24.9          59.4        301.6         217.4        519.0         42
Gas Transmission Rehabilitation                   24.4         42.7          67.1        212.8         372.8         585.6        64
Gas Transmission Environ. Upgrade                  3.5         16.1          19.6         30.6         140.6         171.1        82
Technical Assistance & Training                    0.7         13.8          14.5          5.8         120.5         126.3        95
Total Base Costs                             400.2        303.5         703.7       3,493.7      2,649.5       6.143.3        43
Physical Contingencies                            40.0         30.3         70.4         349.4         265.0        614.3         43
Price Contingencies                               60.2         43.6         103.8      2,220.9       1,619.8       3,840.7        42
Total Project Costs /a                       500.4        377.4         877.9       6064.0       4,534.3      1598.3          43
Interest during constniction Lb                    0.0         67.3          67.3          0.0         587.5         587.5       100
Total Financing Required /c                  500.4        444.7         945.2       6 064.0      5.121.8      11.185.8         47
/a The project is exempt from import duties and taxes. Local cost includes Y 241 million (S28 million equivalent) in taxes on local expenditures.
/b Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan proceeds. The foreign currency portion of IDC
is based on the
Bank loan variable rate.
Ic Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 31 -
Table 5.2: PROJEcr FLNANCING PLAN
(in $ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Source                             Local   Foreign     Total       financing
GET                                  0.0      10.0      10.0            1
SPA/CNPC                           500.4     179.7    680.2           72
IBRD                                 0.0     255.0    255.0           27
Total Financing
Required /a                  500.4      444.7    945.2          100
/a  Includes interest during construction (IDC) of about $67.3 million. Figures may
not total exactly due to rounding.
5.26        The total foreign exchange requirements are estimated at $444.7 million, of
which $255 million and $10 million would be financed by the proposed Bank loan and
GET grant, respectively. The balance of the foreign exchange financing requirements
would be financed by CNPC's own resources.  Local counterpart funding would be
financed by SPA's internal cash generation.
5.27        The Bank loan of $255 million equivalent would be made to China for a 20-
year term, including a 5-year grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. An
assurance was obtained from the borrower that $250 million and $5 million would be
onlent to SPA and CNPC, respectively, on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
SPA and CNPC would bear the foreign exchange risks. Execution of the subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government and SPA/CNPC, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
I. PROCUREMENT
5.28        International procurement under the project would be carried out by a
qualified government authorized agent that has been recently appointed by SPA. Model
bidding documents specifically prepared for China in accordance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines will be used for all procurement activities under the project. In addition, SPA
recently established a procurement unit (PU) as part of the aforementioned PMO. The PU
unit will coordinate with the international procurement agent and the relevant SPA
departments to manage the procurement process under the project, including procurement
schedules, preparation of tender documents, technical specifications, bid evaluation,
contract administration and monitoring.  In addition, in view  of SPA's relative
inexperience with the international competitive bidding process, an experienced consultant
would be hired to assist SPA in international procurement. The Terms of Reference for



- 32 -
this consultancv are set out in Annex 5.6. The procurement arrangements for the project
are summarized in Table 5.3.
5.29         Most of the equipment, materials and spare parts to be imported for well
drilling and rehabilitation, field production, seismic data acquisition, construction of
surface facilities, and rehabilitation of gas transmission and distribution system would be
packaged for international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. About 80 packages, with an estimated total value of $205.9
million, would be procured under ICB. Each package is expected to cost $1 million or
more. Local bidders participating in ICB would receive a preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing customs duty applicable to nonexempt
importers, whichever is less, provided the local value added to the goods is not less than
20 percent of the ex-factory bid price.
5.30         Contracts for highly specialized  equipment and  services (including
specifically designed drilling and coring bits, H2S resistant wellhead assemblies and seismic
data processing equipment, and services for high pressure H2S drilling, directional drilling,
electric logging, well cementing, production and stimulation) which can only be supplied
by a limited number of international manufacturers and contractors, would be procured by
limited international bidding (LIB) on the basis of bids obtained from at least three
suppliers, up to an aggregate value of $25.5 million. About 15 packages, each with a
value of about $0.5 million or more, would be procured under these procedures. Small
value readily available off-the-shelf equipment and materials (fittings, thread dope,
servicing and production unit tools, some fluid treatment chemicals and additives, etc.),
would be procured through international shopping by comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers to ensure competitiveness. Shopping procedures, which do
not require formal bidding, would be limited to items or groups of items estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $2 million. Proprietary items (including a limited number of laboratory instruments and
spare parts for existing electric logging tools and seismic data processing centers) would
be procured on a direct purchase basis, up to an aggregate value of $4 million.
5.31         Additional equipment and materials would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB). The LCB procedures recently promulgated by the Government
have been reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank.  The nature of equipment,
materials and works entailed under LCB procedures is unlikely to attract foreign bidders;
however, interested foreign bidders will be allowed to bid for LCB contracts. About 120
packages, each with a value of about $1 million or more, consisting of drilling materials,
low pressure line pipes and gas treatment plant components with an estimated total value
of $219 million would be procured under LCB. No procurement under LCB would be
financed by the proposed Bank Loan.
5.32         Construction of well access roads and locations, surface facility sites, field
transmission and gathering lines, along with some basic field services such as seismic
survey and well drilling and rehabilitation operations, with an estimated value of
$224.2 million, would be carried out by SPA's own operating departments on a force



- 33 -
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGENIENTS
(in $ million)
Procurement method
Project component                            ICB     Other/a  NBF/b         Total
Civil Works
Well access road/drilling sites             -                  30.4        30.4
Field surface facilities                    -           -      38.2        38.2
Gas transmission & dist. system             -           -      63.3        63.3
Equipment and Materials
Field development drilling                102.1        18.7   145.8       266.6
& rehabilitation                       (102.1)      (18.7)             (120.8)
Seismic survey                              8.0         5.8     2.0        15.8
(8.0)      (5.8)              (13.8)
Gas treatment and                          19.5                82.2       101.7
field surface facility                   (19.5)                         (19.5)
Gas transmission & dist. system            76.3         -      36.0       112.3
(76.3)                         (76.3)
Technical Services /c                       -           7.0   224.2       231.2
(7.0)               (7.0)
Consultancy and Trainin2
Capacity building                           -           4.3     0.3         4.6
(4.3)               (4.3)
Project implementation support              -           0.5     0.2         0.7
(0.5)               (0.5)
Training                                    -          12.8     0.3        13.1
(12.8)              (12.8)
Total                                  205.9        49.1   622.9       877.9
(205.9)      49.1              (255.0)
Note: (1)  Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the Bank.
(2)  Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
/a Other procurement methods include limited international bidding, direct purchase,
shopping and consultant services (recruited in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines) and training.
/b NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
/c Technical Services include directional drilling, electric logging, well connecting,
production and stimulation.



- 34 -
account basis, for which Bank-financing would not be provided. The performance of SPA
operating departments has been satisfactory.
5.33        The consultants retained under the project will be recruited in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by its Borrowers.
5.34        To ensure economy and efficiency in the project execution, equipment and
materials with an estimated total value of $179.7 million, not financed by the Bank, would
also be imported for the project following procedures similar to the model bidding
documents to be used for Bank-financed procurement.
5.35        Bank Review. The Bank's prior review would be required for each contract
for goods and technical services, estimated to cost no less than $1 million equivalent to be
procured under ICB and LIB procedures; this represents about 80 percent of procurement
of the Bank-financed portion of the project.
J. DISBURSEMENT
5.36        The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) of goods procured
through ICB or, as appropriate, LIB, direct purchase and shopping; and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; and (b) 100 percent of consulting services
and training. To facilitate efficiency of disbursements, two special accounts, in US dollars
(based on four months average disbursements) would be established, one for SPA and the
other for CNPC, with authorized allocations of $10 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
The special accounts would be replenished monthly or whenever the account amounts are
drawn down to 50 percent of their initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Disbursements
for training and goods contracts not exceeding $400,000 equivalent would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).  The PMO of SPA and the Education
Department of CNPC would retain documents supporting the SOEs; these documents
would be made available for inspection and review by the Bank supervision missions. All
other disbursements will be made against fully documented expenditures. Retroactive
financing of up to $10 million is provided for expenditures incurred after September 30,
1993 covering urgently needed technical assistance and training required for detailed
project design, including the diagnostic study for national petroleum education (para. 5.19).
The disbursement schedule is projected to be largely consistent with the standard
disbursement profile for power projects in China.
K. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
5.37        The proposed project would result in significant environmental benefits;
increased gas supply and utilization would reduce coal consumption, which would in turn
reduce emissions of SO2, CO2, and particulates. In addition, reduced gas leakages in the
transmission and distribution systems would reduce emissions of methane, a potent
greenhouse gas (para. 7.7).
5.38        No residents will have to be relocated as a result of this project. However,
about 700 hectares and 190 hectares of agricultural land would have to be acquired on a



- 35 -
temporary and permanent basis, respectively. Public consultation has been built into the
process of project preparation and implementation; site selection may be changed according
to the preferences of the local residents. Procedures for compensation and resettlement
have been established in both national and provincial legislations, with compensation
payment based on the productivit) of occupied land in recent years. These procedures are
satisfactory.
5.39         Chinese regulation requires the preparation of an environmental assessment
(EA) report at the time of project design. The EA report of the project, which was
prepared with the assistance of TCC-financed international consultants, was satisfactory.
As part of the environmental assessment process, mitigating measures for possible
environmental impacts have been developed. In this connection, various preinvestment
srudies have been carried out with the assistance of international consultants, and the
project design and implementation will conform with international engineering and safety
standards as well as sound  environmental management practices.   The agreed
environmental management program, including the implementation of a sound monitoring
system and regular gas leak detection and maintenance program as well as appropriate
disposal of produced formation water and other field wastes, is summarized in Annex 5.7.
An assurance has been obtainedfrom SPA that it would carry out an agreed environmental
management program, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
L. PRoJECT MoNrroRlNG, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
5.40         The implementation schedule of the proposed project is in Chart 4. Reports
on project progress would be sent to the Bank} on a quarterly basis. The format and
content of project progress reports have been discussed and agreed during negotiations.
Following up on the project progress reports, the Bank would normally field two
supervision missions per year. Given the complexity of this project, the supervision
requirements are likely to be higher than the Bank-wide average. An indicative Bank
supervision plan is shown in Annex 5.7. Various measures would be taken to help contain
supervision costs, including (a) an agreement with SPA regarding satisfactory arrangements
for project management, (b) provisions for technical assistance and training in project
implementation, and (c) adding supervision for this project in the terms of reference of
other project missions as well.
M. PROJECr SUSTAINABILrrY
5.41         The sustainability of the proposed gas supply component is critically
dependent on the quantities of gas reserves and rationalization of pricing policy. The
quantities of commercially recoverable gas reserves expected to be derived from the project
have been certified by an independent international consultant under the gas reserve
assessment study. Further, assurances have been obtained from the government on the
implementation of a reform action plan for the rationalization of gas pricing and allocation
criteria. In addition, the Chinese authorities are committed to the implementation of the
restructuring component under the project. Finally, the project would provide for technical
assistance and training for project implementation. All these measures will contribute
toward the project's sustainability.






- 36 -
6. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. INTRODUCTION
6.1          Since 1978, state-owned enterprises in China has operated within a financia]
system which is evolving with the economic reforms in the country. Starting from the
early 1980s, government grants have been replaced by loans. The contract responsibility
system was introduced in the mid-1980s to increase the autonomy and accountability of
public enterprises in China. Insofar as the oil and gas sector is concerned, the offshore
petroleum enterprises, which were established during the last decade, have enjoyed both
operational and financial autonomy. However, as in the case of most energy entities in
China (para. 1.25), the long established onshore petroleum enterprises, including SPA,
have continued to operate under a highly centralized financial system. Specifically, gas
pricing and allocation are largely set by the government; its operational and investment
budgets as well as production targets are approved by the government. CNPC, its parent
company, has continued to mobilize a portion of its investment financing and provide
subsidy to cover "policy losses" within approved limits.
6.2          The present financial arrangements in the oil and gas sector have a number
of shortcomings, notably the inadequacy of resource mobilization for sector development
and inadequate financial accountability and discipline. The ability of the sector to increase
the level of resource mobilization has been hampered by a number of factors, including
inadequacy in tariff adjustments, the lack of diversification of financing and ownership,
underdeveloped domestic capital markets, inexperience of most enterprises in modern
financing techniques, as well as inadequate cost control and management. In the absence
of deepened enterprise and fiscal reforms, the gap in financing the required sector
investment would continue to increase in the 1990s.
6.3          The Chinese authorities are aware of the above systemic issues and, as noted
above, they are committed to the implementation of a far-reaching reform program in the
oil and gas sector within the overall framework of economic and enterprise reform in the
country.  Since the details of such reforms are still being formulated, there are
considerable uncertainties relating to the specific parameters affecting the enterprises'
future finances.  Nevertheless, consistent with the guiding principles of the recently
promulgated regulation on enterprise management (para. 1.26), the integrated measures of
the economic reform would be directed at enhancing the commnercial orientation of the
petroleum enterprises.
6.4           SPA is undergoing a difficult transitional period of restructuring its internal
organization and management. The proposed project is a vehicle for the Bank to effect its



- 37 -
development objective of strengthening SPA's financial capabilit) and increasing its
efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out the ongoing economic reforms. During the
course of project preparation, the Bank was instrumental in effecting up-front actions for
gas price adjustments. Further, the project would provide for: (a) a reform action plan to
further rationalize both the levels and structure of gas tariffs; (b) implementation of the
first phase of oil/gas sector restructuring, including commercialization and corporatization
of SPA; (c) training in financial management; and (d) financial covenants which would
establish a framework for greater financial discipline.
B. ACCOUNTING
6.5          All the state-owned enterprises in China follow  a unified enterprise
accounting system on an accrual basis. The current accounting standards were developed
in the context of a highly centralized planned economy. With a view to complementing
the ongoing efforts to deepen reforms in the financial sector and enterprise management,
the accounting system in China needs modernization to permit satisfactory financial
management in an increasingly decentralized and market-oriented environment. As a first
step, the general principles of enterprise accounting have recently been revised by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). These revised principles are generally consistent with those
of international accounting standards. Within this broad framework, specific accounting
standards would be developed with the assistance of the Bank under the Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2423-CHA).
6.6          However, mainly due to the lack of distinction between financial reporting
and tax accounting, significant anomalies remain in the accounting practices of the oil and
gas producers which reflect their unique funding arrangements with the government. In
particular, exploration costs, which are major expenditures for SPA, are not reflected in
its operating cost. On the other hand, the revenues derived from the difference between
quota and above-quota prices are not considered as income. In view of the foregoing, the
financial reports of SPA continue to present a distorted view of the company's financial
position and operating results. During negotiations, an assurance has been obtainedfrom
the government that sector specific accounting standards for the oil and gas sector would
be revised and adopted consistent with international accounting standards. Training in
modern financial management, including international accounting practices, would be
provided to SPA under this project (para. 5.18).
C. AUDITs
6.7         Internal Audit. The present institutional capabilities of SPA in internal
auditing appear to be inadequate both quantitatively and qualitatively. In this connection,
CNPC has recommended an increase of internal auditing staff from 12 to 30 at SPA's
headquarters. An assurance has been obtained from SPA that it will provide the Bank, by
December 31, 1994, with an action plan to strengthen its internal audit function and
thereafter take into account the Bank's comments in the implementation of this plan.



- 38 -
6.8          External Audit. As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Forei'n
Funds Utilization Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA) will have the
responsibility  for auditing accounts concerning the project.   This arrangement is
satisfactory. Technical assistance for SAA will continue to be financed under the Planning
Support and Special Studies Project (Credit 1835-CHA). An assurance has been obtained
from SPA and CNPC that the following annual audited financial reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year. (a) project
accounts, including the auditor's opinion on the use of the Special Account and statements
of e.xpenditures (SOEs); and (b) SPA 's5financial statements. In the case of SOEs, the audit
report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted
during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
D. FINANcEs OF SPA
Past Finances and Present Financial Position
6.9          Hitherto, SPA has operated as a single legal entity with no subsidiaries
(para. 4.3). Each of its major activities is a separate accounting subunit and is managed
along the lines of profit or cost centers, although intercompany transactions may not
always be conducted on a strictly commercial basis. SPA's activities include, inter alia,
(a) gas exploration and production (E&P), the dominant business; (b) gas purification; (c)
gas transmission and distribution; and (d) other activities, including operation of a small
oil refinery, sales of various petroleum products and by-products (e.g., sulphur) as well
as headquarters administration.
6.10         Revenue Position. Over the past few years, SPA'.s E&P operations have
increasingly suffered operational losses. This was mainly attributable to rapidly rising
operating costs which increased at an average of 14 percent per annum during the period
1988-92. Meanwhile, gas sales volume increased slowly at an average rate of 2 percent
per annum. Further, adjustments of well-head prices and city-gate price averaged 6
percent and 9 percent, respectively; these adjustments were not adequate to cover the cost
escalations. As a result, SPA's consolidated net income declined sharply from a peak of
Y 301 million in 1989 to Y 58 million in 1992. As a first step in the right direction, the
average well-head price was increased by some 50 percent in 1992 (para. 3.14).
6.11         Investment Financing.  SPA has thus far maintained a very low debt
position with debt/equity ratio of 12/88 by end-1992. This reflects mainly the conservative
financing policy of the Chinese authorities to rely mainly on self-financing for the gas
sector. However, as noted above, natural gas prices have thus far remained inadequate.
As a result of financing constraint, SPA was unable to complete the original work program
and related gas production target under the Seventh Five-Year Plan. Over the past five
years, SPA's capital expenditures increased by 53 percent, reflecting SPA's efforts to
enhance gas production through increased investment. Its self-financing ratio increased
from 52 percent in 1988 to 70 percent in 1992, mainly as a result of the aforementioned
gas price adjustment.



- 39 -
6.12         Liquidity Position.   SPA's overall liquidity position has remained
satisfactory, as indicated by its current ratio of no less than 1.6 times during the period
1988-92. However, there were two areas of special concern:
(a)   Accounts Receivable Collection. SPA supplies directly to some 600 large
industrial customers and to fifteen major city gas companies. All the
customers are charged once a month according to the meter readings. With
the onset of domestic.credit squeeze in 1988, intercompany indebtedness
among the state-owned enterprises has become a serious problem in China.
Since 1991, the govermment has increased the credit availability for
settlement of intercompany indebtedness. Consequently, SPA's average
collection period was reduced from a peak of 72 days in 1988 to 48 days in
1992.
(b)   Stock Management. SPA has maintained a high level of inventory which
comprises mainly material supplies for both operations and capital
construction. Its inventory reached a record high level of Y 1.2 billion by
end-1992. This was, in part, due to inadequate stock management and
control.
Future Finances
6.13         Financial Performance Targets. SPA's management is aware of the need
to strengthen the company's finances, and, in addition to tariff adjustments, would pursue
other remedial measures.   In particular, these measures would  include making
improvements in operational efficiency and cost controls; the proposed project would assist
SPA in the attainment of its financial objectives. During negotiations, assurances have
been obtainedfrom SPA that it would:
(a)   take all measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments and
improvements in operational efficiency, to ensure that the revenues of its
overall operations and of each of its major operations in gas production,
purification and transmission are sufficient to cover all operating costs, and
the greater of depreciation or debt service requirements;
(b)   maintain a self-financing ratio of no less than 50 percent for its future
investnents;
(c)   achieve a financial rate of return of no less than 12 percent (in real terms)
under the proposed project; and
(d)   by September 30 of each year, starting from September 30, 1994, annually
furnish the Bank with a rolling long-term financial plan (including projected
income statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets for a
period of no less than eight years) and exchange views with the Bank on the
companies' finances, focusing on comparison of actual financial



- 40 -
performance with the agreed targets, operating cost trend, future investment
and related financing arrangements.
6.14         The future finances of SPA, including major assumptions and projected
financial statements over the period 1993 to 2000, are in Annex 6.2. Based on the
assumption that the minimum average tariffs would be set at levels which would allow SPA
to achieve the above financial performance targets, its finances are forecast to be
satisfactory.
6.15         Revenue Position. Over the period 1993-2000, SPA's gas production is
projected to increase, by an average rate of 3 percent per annum, to 8 bcm by the year
2000. The minimum average well-head prices required to achieve the agreed financial
performance targets are projected to increase from Y 254/mcm in 1993 to Y 620/mcm in
the year 2000, representing an average of 14 percent per annum (about 4 percent in real
terms). Given the capital-intensive nature of gas production and transmission, SPA's cost
structure and resultant impact on its profitability are particularly sensitive to the
depreciation rates of its assets. In forecasting the future finances of SPA, it has been
conservatively assumed that the present depreciation rates for major categories of its assets,
which are considerably faster than the average economic life of these assets, would remain
(Annex 6.2). On this basis, SPA's gas production operations and consolidated finances are
forecast to become profitable starting from 1994 onwards. Its consolidated net income is
projected to turn around from a net loss of Y 190 million in 1993 to Y 507 million in the
year 2000.
6.16         Liquidity Position. In the wake of inflationary concerns in China, domestic
credit has been increasingly tightened in 1993. Thus, the aforementioned problems relating
to intercompany indebtedness are emerging again. To ensure the financial soundness of
the company, SPA would need to monitor closely its sizable accounts receivable and
inventory turnover and maintain them at acceptable levels. To this end, SPA has started
to adopt various measures to provide customers with incentives to make timely payment,
including (a) imposing penalties on customers with overdue payments; and (b) reducing gas
supply by 50 percent for customers who maintain continuous arrears. These measures
would allow SPA to maintain a more reliable cash flow from sales. Further, as part of the
overall SPA institutional restructuring (para. 4.6), the inventory management function
would be reorganized and strengthened with a view to minimizing the working capital
requirements.
6.17         Investment Financing. In order to achieve the gas production targets set
for this decade, SPA's investment requirements would be increased substantially from the
past levels for the following reasons: (a) development of new fields and enhanced gas
recovery to arrest natural production decline of aging fields would be increasingly difficult
and costly to achieve; and (b) underinvestment in the past in terms of both quantity and
quality of SPA's work program.
6.18         During the financial forecast period, SPA's planned investments would total



- 41 -
Y 20 billion ($2.3 million equivalent); SPA's self-financing ratios for these investments are
projected to be no less than 76 percent. The proposed project would account for about
41 percent of the company's total investment program, and the proposed Bank loan would
meet about 11 percent of SPA's total financing requirements. Separately, as noted above,
SPA would seek to diversify its sources of financing and ownership, including the
aforementioned opening up of petroleum concessions for direct foreign investment and
transformation of selected subsidiaries into joint-stock companies (para. 4.6). However,
due to the preliminary nature of these activities, the financial forecast has not reflected
these potential sources of financing.  SPA is projected to maintain a relatively low
debt/equity ratio of no more than 24/76 throughout the forecast period.
6.19         Project Financial Rate of Return. The financial rate of return (FRR) based
on the discounted cash flow (DCF) over the life of the project is critically dependent on
the levels of incremental gas production (para. 7.2) and prices. Based on the agreed
financial performance targets in the price reform action plan, gas prices would be adjusted
at such levels that the project FRR would be no less than 12 percent (in real terms).



- 42 -
7. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
7.1       The pr.oposed project has been designed to promote sustainable development
through institutional restructuring and alleviation of energy shortages in an environmentally
sound manner. The investment component would result in incremental gas production
which would help offset the natural decline of aging fields in Sichuan. In addition to
quantifiable economic benefits, the project would lend added momentum to policy and
enterprise reforms as well as human resources development in the sector. Further, the
project would result in mitigation of air pollution and related health impact through the
substitution of coal by gas. The gas transmission rehabilitation component would also
enhance safety, minimize gas leakages and reduce the emissions of methane and related
global warming impact. Successful implementation of this project component would have
a significant demonstration effect for other gas transmission and distribution systems in
China and other developing countries.
B. ECONOMIC BENEFrrS
7.2       Incremental Production.   The investment component for gas field
development and well rehabilitation would result in an incremental production of gas and
condensate totalling 68 bcm and 74,000 tons, respectively, over a 20-year period (1995-
2015), representing an average annual gas production of about 3.4 bcm. In addition, gas
would be saved from the rehabilitation and environmental upgrade of the gas transmission
and distribution system, estimated at about 0.17 bcm per annum, totalling about 3.4 bcm
over the life of the project.
7.3       Economic Values of Gas. The imputed values of the economic benefits of
natural gas are commonly indicated by the price of alternative fuels or netback values [the
avoidable cost of alternative fuels adjusted for any capital cost savings and efficiency gains
through fuel substitution or, in the case of feedstock applications, the economic value of
the final output, net of any incremental costs for conversion, construction and operation).
In the case of Sichuan gas, the lowest values of the alternative fuel is the international
price of fuel oil (at about $11.8/bbl, FOB Singapore) which is equivalent to about
$60.34/mcm of gas (or Y 543/mcm at the shadow exchange rate of Y 9 to $1). The
international fuel oil parity also approximates the economic cost of delivered coal in
Sichuan (the long run marginal cost of mine-mouth coal from northern China plus transport
cost to the province).



- 43 -
7.4       The UNDP-financed study on gas pricing and allocation has included estimates
of netback values as an indication of the relative economic benefits of different gas uses.
The study concluded that there is a wide disparity in the estimated netback values of major
present gas uses in Sichuan, ranging from Y 1,404/mcm for large urea plants to Y
631/mcm for methanol production. Based on the study's estimates of netback values and
the current gas consumption, the weighted-average netback value of Sichuan gas is
estimated at Y 1,1 19/mcm or $124/mcm at the shadow exchange rate. However, the
above study is intended to be policy-oriented rather than a detailed empirical assessment
of the Sichuan gas sector. Thus, the absolute levels of netback values estimated by the
study are only preliminary rough estimates.
7.5        Economic Rate of Return. For purposes of calculating the base case of the
economic rate of return (ERR) of the investment component, the economic value of natural
gas has been conservatively assumed to be the lowest value of replacement fuel, namely
international fuel oil prices.  Separately, the economic value of condensate has been
estimated at international price of naphtha of about $150/ton. On this basis, the ERR has
been estimated at 24 percent and the net present value (NPV, at a 12 percent discount rate)
would be about $275 million. The ERR and NPV would be increased to 82 percent and
$1.5 billion, respectively, based on the aforementioned netback value of natural gas uses
which indicates the maximum imputed value of natural gas in Sichuan.
7.6        Sensitivity Analysis.  The results of sensitivity analysis are summarized
below:
ERR        NPV
(in $ million)
(a) Base case                            24%         275
(b) Benefits 10% lower                   19%         162
(c) 20% cost overrun                     16%         105
7.7       Environmental Subcomponents. The economic values of gas saved under
most of the environmental subcomponents for rehabilitation of SPA's transmission and
distribution system would more than offset the capital and operating costs, thus yielding
net economic benefits. Four of these subcomponents (replacement or upgrading the
packing of block valves, replacement of control valves and plugging open-ended lines)
would entail net incremental costs which would be largely financed by the GET grant.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
7.8       In addition to the quantified economic benefits noted above, the project would
also result in mitigation of environmental degradation and health concerns (notably
respiratory diseases) through the substitution of coal (2.9 million tons per annum) by gas,
which would, in turn, reduce emissions of SO2 (171,080 tons per annum), CO2 (2.3 million
tons per annum), nitrogen oxide (6,100 tons per annum), carbon monoxide (64,985 tons
per annum) and ash (948,300 tons per annum). However, while the qualitative benefits
of these environmental externalities are clear, these impacts cannot be estimated with



- 44 -
precision. Common approaches in quantifying the environmental benefits include: (a) an
estimate of the environmental damage avoided through the development of "damage
functions" based on studies of the physical impacts and the values that people place on
avoiding these impacts; or (b) the avoided cost of pollution abatement using available
control technologies; the marginal cost controlling any given pollutant varies significantly
depending on the technology and the level of pollution control. In the case of the proposed
project, the lack of relevant data has prevented the economic analysis from the inclusion
of quantified environmental premium of gas usage. Thus, the economic benefits of the
project have been understated.
D. PROJECT RisKs
7.9       Gas field development in Sichuan faces relatively high geological and technical
risks mainly due to complex geology and difficult operating conditions. These risks would
be mitigated by the provisions of appropriate modem technology and equipment under the
project. Further, to minimize the risks related to the uncertainties of economically re-
coverable gas reserves, a techno-economic pre-investment study on gas reserve assessment
and development plan optimization has been undertaken with the assistance of international
consultants. In addition, assurances have been obtained from the government on the
implementation of a reform action plan for the rationalization of gas pricing and allocation
criteria to ensure the financial sustainability of the proposed gas supply component. To
reduce the risks of delay in implementation of the project, an agreement has been obtained
from the Chinese authorities to maintain satisfactory arrangements for project management.
Moreover, the requisite technical assistance and training in project implementation would
be provided under the project.



I



- 45 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1          During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the borrower that
it would:
(a)   implement a gas allocation and pricing reform action plan, agreed with the
Bank (para. 3.16);
(b)   oniend the proceeds of the Bank loan to SPA and CNPC for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
(para. 5.27); and
(c)   revise and adopt sector specific accounting standards for the oil and gas
sector consistent with international accounting standards (para. 6.6).
8.2          Assurances have been obtained from SPA that it would:
(a)   carry out training in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank (para.
5.15);
(b)   maintain the project management office with functions and staffing
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.21);
(c)   carry out an environmental management program satisfactory to the Bank,
including the implementation of a regular gas leak detection and
maintenance program (para. 5.38);
(d)   furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1994 an action plan to strengthen its
internal audit function and implement the plan taking into account the
Bank's comments (para. 6.7);
(e)   ensure that its revenues of its overall operations and of each of its major
operations (gas production, purification and transmission) are sufficient to
cover all operating costs, and the greater of depreciation or debt service
requirements [para. 6.13(a)];
(f)    maintain a self-financing ratio of no less than 50 percent for SPA's future
investments [para. 6.13(b)];
(g)   achieve a financial rate of return of no less than 12 percent (in real terms)
under the proposed project [para. 6.13(c)]; and



- 46 -
(h)   furnish to the Bank a rolling long-terrn financial plan b) September 30 of
each year and review its future finances with the Bank- [para. 6.13(d)].
8.3          Arrangements to ensure the safety of the expansion of the gas transmission
and distribution system, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for
this component (para. 5.10).
8.4          An assurance has been obtained from CNPC that it would carry out training
in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank (para. 5.15).
8.5          Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and
CNPC/SPA, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.27), and approval of the Loan Agreement
by the borrower's State Council would be conditions for loan effectiveness.
8.6          With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of $255 million equivalent for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, to the People's Republic of China.



ANNEXES






- 47 -                              ANNEX 1.1
China
Primary Commercial Energy Production
(1949 - 1991)
(in Million Ton Coal Equivalent)
Production (m tcc)                             % of Tolal Production
Year      Total  1  Coal 1   Oil        Gas      Hydro     Coal      OD        Gas     Hydro
I        L                  I Power                                  Power
1949      23.7      22.9       0.2      0.0       0.7      96.3      0.7       0.0      3.0
1950      31.7      30.7       0.3      0.0       0.7      96.7      0.9       0.0      2.3
1951      39.0      37.8       0.4      0.0       0.8      97.0      1.1       0.0      1.9
1952      48.7      47.1       0.6      0.0       1.0      96.7      1.3       0.0      2.0
1953      51.9      50.0       0.9      0.0       1.0      96.3      1.7       0.0.     2.0
1954      62.6      60.0       1.1      0.0       1.5      95.8      1.8       0.0      2.4
1955      73.0      70.0       1.4      0.0       1.6      95.9      1.9       0.0      2.2
1956      82.4      78.5       1.7      0.0      2.2       95.3      2.0       0.0      2.7
1957      98.6      93.5      2.1       0.1      2.9       94.8      2.1       0.1      2.9
1958      198.5     192.8     3.2       0.2       2.3      97.1      1.6       0.1      1.2
1959     271.6      263.5     5.3       0.4       2.4      97.0      2.0       0.1      0.9
1960     296.4      283.5      7.4      1.4       4.1      95.6      2.5       0.5      1.4
1961     212.2      198.5      7.6      2.0       4.2      93.5      3.6       0.9      2.0
1962      171.9     157.1      8.2      1.6       4.9      91.4      4.8       0.9      2.9
1963      170.1     154.9      9.3      1.4       4.5      91.1      5.5       0.8      2.7
1964      172.3     153.5     12.1      1.4       5.3      89.1      7.0       0.8      3.1
1965      188.2     165.7     16.2      1.5       5.0      88.0      8.6       0.8      2.6
1966     208.3      179.9     20.8      1.8       5.8      86.4      10.0      0.9      2.8
1967      174.9     147.1     19.9      1.9       6.1      84.1      11.3      1.1      3.5
1968      187.2     157.1     22.9      1.9       5.3      83.9      12.2      1.0      2.9
1969     231.0      189.9     31.1      2.6       7.4      82.2      13.5      1.1      3.2
1970     309.9      2.52.8    43.8      3.8       9.5      81.6      14.1      1.2      3.1
1971     352.9      279.9     56.4      5.0      11.7      79.3      16.0      1.4      3.3
1972     377.9      292.7     65.3      6.4      13.4      77.5      17.3      1.7      3.5
1973     400.1      297.7     76.7      8.0      17.8      74.4      19.2      2.0      4.4
1974     416.3      294.9     92.7      10.0     18.6      70.8      22.3      2.4      4.5
1975     487.5      344.2    110.2      11.8     21.4      70.6      22.6      2.4      4.4
1976     503.4      34-4.9    124.6     13.4     20.5      68.5      24.8      2.7      4.1
1977     564.0      392.7    133.9      16.1     21.2      69.6      23.7      2.9      3.8
1978     627.7      441.3    148.8      18.3     19.4      70.3      23.7      2.9      3.1
1979     645.6      453.4    151.8      19.3     21.1      70.2      23.5      3.0      3.3
1980     637.4      443.0    151.4      19.0     24.0      69.5      23.7      3.0      3.8
1981     632.3      444.0    14.4.6     16.9     26.7      70.2      22.9      2.7      4.2
1982     667.8      476.0    145.9      15.9     30.1      71.3      21.8      2.4      4.5
1983     712.7      510.4    151.5      16.2     34.5      71.6      21.3      2.3      4.8
1984     778.6      563.8    163.7      16.5     34.5      72.4      21.0      2.1      4.4
1985      855.5     623.1    178.4      17.2     36.8      72.8      20.9      2.0      4.3
1986      881.2     638.6    186.7      18.3     37.6      72.5      21.2      2.1      4.3
1987      912.7     662.9    191.6      18.5     39.7      72.6      21.0      2.0      4.3
1988      958.0     699.9    195.8      19.0     43.3      73.1      20.4      2.0      4.5
1989     1016.4     753.0    196.6      20.0      46.8     74.1      19.3      2.0      4.6
1990     1039.2     771.4    197.6    20.4       49.9      74.2      19.0      2.0       4.8
1991     1048.0    775.5    199.1       21.0     48.2      74.0      19.0      2.0      4.6



- 48 -                                        ANNEX 1.1
Miliion Ton Coal Equivalent
1949
1950
1951 -
1952
1953  - 
1954    z
1935  -
1956  -
1957 -
1958   1     .-1 __  ..   I
1959 -.
1962 W
1963
1964    .                                                                                                3
1965    =I:z     z$) -
=11 6
19667
19671     . -
3969 1 t 
3 970 --_,.~ n
1972 -_
1973
1974                 _         =m
1975
1976    sfi=----;                         
19'77 1--======_  
1978                          _______
1 9 7 91 [0O                                            
198    F======u==v _____I___r___5
1981
1982
1983         I 
1984
1985
1986
1987
1989   .-         .   .. -= l
1990 _



- 49 -                                                       ANNEX LII
IN    OF TOTAL PRODUCTION
194 9
1950
1951                                                                            -
1952j
1953           --                                                                                                
1954 T          -
1956
1956
1959                                                                             -
1960                                                        .. . .......
1961                                                                         .... .... 
1963
1964                  .......... .. ...-.... .-
1965                                                                                         -         ....
1966                           ..
1967........ 
1968              .               :         -1:-                                                
1969                                 .... .- - -...... --.  --...-- --.-.-.......-
1970                                                          zzz--
1972         -        .-.
19743.                                                 . . . . .
19754         ... 
19776       --.-~                                          .-.                                                                   
1978
19780-. -....-....
1981      .....            .....
1982           :        -        '
1984                     .............                                     -.-.--.
1985                       ... -....                                                             ---.----- -..
1986       .:
1987                                                                                       -  --     ------------
19:88.. * .                                                        -
1989         :~.                                -.
1990-.........-1



TOTAL PRODUCriON AND CONSUMNITION OF ENERGY VS. GNIP GROWTIh
1978  1979  1980  1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Product ion
(million tons of standard
coal equivalent)       628   646   637   632   668   713   779   855   881   913   958  1,016  1.039  1,048  1,075
Proportion (%)
Coal                   70.3  70.2  69.4  70.2  71.3  71.6  72.4  72.8  72.4  72.6  73.1  74.1  74.2  74.1  74.3
Crude oil              23.7  23.5  23.8  22.9  21.8  21.3  21.0  20.9  21.2  21.0  20.4  19.3  19.0  19.2  190
Natural gas             2.9   3.0   3.0   2.7   2.4   2.3   2.1   2.0   2.1   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0  2T0
Hydropower              3.1   3.3   3.8   4.2   4.5   4.8   4.5   4.3   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.8   4.7   4.7
Consurnplion
(mi lion tons of standard
coal equivalent)       571   586   603   594   621   660   709   767   809   866   930   969   980  1,038  1,090
Proportion (M)
Coal                   70.7  71.3  72.2  72.7  73.7  74.2  75.3  75.8  75.8  76.2  76.2  76.0  75.6  76.1  74.9
Crude oil              22.7  21.8  20.7  20.0  18.9  18.1  17.4  17.1  17.2  17.0  17.0  17.1   17.0  17.1  18,0
Natural gas             3.2   3.3   3.1   2.8   2.5   2.4   2.4   2.2   2.3   2.1   2.1   2.0   2.1   2.0   2.0
Hydropower              3.4   3.6   4.0   4.5   4.9   5.3   4.9   4.9   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.9   5.3   4.8   5.1
GNP Index
(constant prices)     100.0  107.6  116.0  121.2  131.8  145.4  166.9  188.2  203.5  225.7  251.2  262.1  272.7  295.0  333.4
Energy Intensit Index
(consumption/GNP)     100.0  95.4  91.0  85.8  82.5  75.9  74.5  71.5  69.7  67.2  65.0  65.1  62.6  61.6  57.3
Notes: (1) Excluding bio-energy. solar, geothermal and nuclear energy.
(2) All fuels are converted into standard coal with therrmal equivalent of 7,000 kilocalorie per kilogram. The conversion factors are:
I kg of coal (5,000 kcal) =0.714 kg of standard coal
I kg of crude oil (10,000 kcal) = 1.43 kg of standard coal                                                  >
I cubic meter of natural gas (9,310 kcal) = 1.33 kg of standard coal                                                 Z
(3) The conversion of hydropower is based on the specific consumption of standard coal for thermal power generation of the year.  X
Source: China Statistical Yearbook 1991.1.                                                                                             _



- 51 -                                      ANNEX 2X1
China: Oil & Gas Production
(1949  --- 1992)
Y cr                        G             5 s                          Crude oil
growLn                            ~~~~~g rowth
B OCM            ?e 5rDwth        D.              m tons       % growth          p. .
1949         0.01                                          0.12
1930         0.01            0.00                           0.2          66.67
1951         0.00          (57.14)                         0.31          55.00
1952         0.01          166.67                          0.44          41.94
1953         0.01           37.50                          0.62          40.91
1954         0.02           36.36                          0.79          27.42
1955         0.02           13.33           89.83          0.97          22.78            39.27
1956         0.03           52.94                          1.16          19.59
1957         0.07          169.23                          1.46          25.86
1958         0.11           57.14                          2.26          54.79
1959         0.29          163.64                          3.73          65.04
1960          1.04        258.62                           5.20          39.41
1961          1.47          41.35                          5.31           2.12
1962          1.21         -17.69                          5.75           8.29
1963          1.02         -15.70                          6.48          12.70
1964          1.06           3.92                          8.48          30.86
1965          1.10           3.77            12.87        11.31          33.37            20.35
1966          1.34          21.82                         14.55          28.65
1967          1.46           8.96                         13.88           4.60
1968          1.40          -4.11                         15.99          15.20
1969          1.96          40.00                         21.74          35.96
1970         2.87           46.43                         30.65          40.98
1971         3.74           30.31                         39.41          28.58
1972         4.84           29.41                         45.67          15.88
1973         5.98           23.55                         53.61          17.39
1974         7.53           25.92            17.82        64.85          20.97            13.51
1975         8.85           17.53                         77.06           18.83
1976         10.10          14.12                         87.16           13.11
1977         12.12          20.00                         93.64           7.43
1978         13.73          13.28                        104.05           11.12
1979         14.51           5.68                        106.15           2.02
1980         14.27          -1.65                        105.95           -0.19
1981         12.74         -10.72                        101.22           -4.46
1982         11.93          -6.36                        102.12           0.89
1983         12.21           2.35                        106.07            3.t7
1984         12.43           1.80                         114.61           8.05
1985         12.93           4.02             0.83       124.90            8.98             2.77
1986         13.76           6.42                         130.69           4.64
1987         13.89           0.97                         134.14           2.64
1988         14.26           2.66                        137.05            2.17
1989         15.05           5.50                        137.64           0.43
1490         15.30           1.65                         138.31           0.49
9191         15.40           0.67                        139.79            3.07
1992         15.70           1.95             1.31       142.00            1.58             1.33



- 52-                                                ANN-EX 21
China: Oil & Gas Production
(1949- 1992)
Gas Produton (BCM)
1949 
1950 -
1951
1952
1953
2953 t
2936   W
1957    i
195t %
1959
1961-
1962 t a 
19f2
1963
2966 e 
O           1967
2961
2969
C)   -<IY7                =
.-  19,70
1972 3 
1974                                    At _
1975
1 9,76 
1977 1
____        ~~1978
1979 0                                                         U
1981   j                             _
19tl 1"     
19t2   ra. 
1983   1
199A7 
1 98-4
198,
19t69 
198X 9
1989
1990
1991
1992   1
Oil8Productiori (Mon ton 8
Oil Prodiiazon (Mii^on ton)



Maujor Oil & Gas Field Production
(1988- 1992)
Crude Oil                                        Natual Gas
Million Ton                                        (BCM)
Year         1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Field                                                                                     I
Totil           137.0     137,1    138.3      139.8     142.0      13.9      14.5      15.2     15.4       15.7
A. Orshore
Daqing             55.70     55.56     55.62     55.62     55.66      2.23     2.25      2.25      2.27      2.29
Shengli            33.30     33.36     33.51     33.55     33.46      1.42      1.54      1.44     1.44       1.44
Huabei              6.12      5.48      5.35      5.01      4.80      0.21     0.21      0.25      0.25      0.28
Liaohe             12.58     13.35     13.60     13.70     13.85      1.64      1.71      1.75     1.77      1.77
Xinjiang            6.15      6.40      6.80      7.02      7.30      0.46     0.50      0.50      0.55      0.68
Dagang              4.22      4.08      3.83      3.81      3.90      0.39     0.36      0.35      0.36      0.37
Henan               2.57      2.55      2.52     2.38      2.30      0.04      0.05      0.04      0.03      0.04
Zbongyuan           7.22      6.98      6.30     6.10      5.80       1.29      1.27      1.35     1.27      1.22
JIn                 3.15      3.41      3.55      3.41      3.42      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.13      0.17
Cbangqing           1.42      1.43      1.47      1.54      1.64      0.02     0.02      0.03      0.05      0.05
Jangban             1.02      0.93      0.83      0.73      0.77      0.06      0.07     0.08      0.06      0.08
Yumnen              0.53      0.54      0.55      0.69      1.05      0.01     0.01      0.01      0.01      0.03
Jiangsu             0.72      0.80      0.86      0.87      0.86      0.04     0.04      0.04      0.03      0.03
Qinghai             0.64      0.73      0.81      1.02      1.06      0.03     0.04      0.05      0.08      0.05
Sichuan             0.12      0.12      0.13      0.14      0.14      5.94      6.26     6.43      6.48      6.51
Yanchang            0.29      0.34      0.41      0.47      0.51
Dian-Qian-Gui       0.05      0.07      0.09      0.10      0.12      0.02      0.02     0.03      0.03      0.04
Jidong              0.18      0.29      0.35      0.37      0.39      0.01      0.03      0.03     0.02      0.04
Tarim                         0.03      0.15      0.55      0.89                                   0.00      0.02
B. Offshore
CNOOC               0.75      0.90      1.27      2.41      3.87                                                       :>
td
t-



- 54 -                            ANNEX 2.3
China Crude Oil Price
(1988 - 1992)
Year          High (average)            Low (average)         Weighted Avg.      Growth
Price (Y/T)  Weight (%)  Price (Y/T)  Weight (%)    Price (YFf)          % p.a.
1988        500           30          115           70            230.5
1989        500           30          144           70            250.8           8.81
1990        500           30          174           70            271.8           8.37
1991        530           40          210           60            338.0           24.36
1992        530           50          210           50            370.0           9.47
6001
500
400
2
p=300
IV
.U
200
1001
0                                                             L
1988           1989          1990           1991           1992
Year
high                low          *       Weighted
Average



- 55 -                              ANNEX 24
CHINA: Oil /Products Consumption and Exports
(in Million Tons)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993  %growth    Total%
P.a.      Increase
Production         134     137      138      138      140     142      143         1           7
Domestic           109     112      117      117      123     134      139        4            28
Consumption
Net Exports        25       25      21       21       17       9        4        (26)         (84)
Export            27      27       25       24       25      21       19        (6)          (30)
Import            2        2        4       3        8       12       15        43          757
CHINA: Oil/Products Consumption & Exports
160 T
140
120
I 100
80-
60 
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
*  Production               O Domestic Consumption  * Net Exports






-56 -                         ANNEX 2.5
POLICY LETTER ON OIL AND GAS SECTOR REFORMS
Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director
China and Mongolia Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
The United States of America                                 December 30, 1993
Dear Mr. Burki,
Prior to the negotiation of the proposed Bank Financed Sichuan Gas Development
and Conservation project, I hereby present, on behalf of the Government of China, a
statement on the status of the ongoing reform and next phase of reform program in China's
oil and gas sector and the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC).
The major objective of the reforms in the oil and gas sector and the restructuring
of CNPC is to improve the productivity and economic efficiency and to promote the
development of petroleum and gas industry by: (a) separating the governmental function
from the management of the enterprises; (b) defining clear-cut property relationship; (c)
establishing the market for oil and gas exploration and development compatible with
international practice; (d) improving the legal and regulatory system for macro-control; (e)
transforming the oil and gas fields and other petroleum enterprises into independent legal
entities bearing full rights and obligations in the market competition.
1.    Separating the governmental function from the management of enterprises.
CNPC shall transfer its administrative function to the departments concerned under
the State Council, and operate as a national state-owned company to manage and supervise
the state assets in its subsidiaries. The government departments concerned shall focus on
policy-making, regulatory formulation and medium and long-term planning. The regular
operations of CNPC will be free from direct interference by government agencies.
2.    Phasing in the corporatization and restructuring of the oil and gas fields.
Oil company, service company and social welfare units shall be spun off the main
body of the oil and gas fields, and become independent legal entities. The existing pattern



- 57 -                          ANNEX 2.5
of self-contained, self-served petroleum administrative bureaus shall be transformed.
Meanwhile, in accordance with the Corporation Law, and based on assets evaluation and
property rights verification, oil companies, service companies and some social welfare
units shall be restructured, according to their different status, respectively into solely state-
owned companies, state-holding   companies, and limited liability companies with their
stock held by the state, legal persons and employees, thereby establishing the modern
enterprise system compatible with the international practice.
3.    Setting up the market for oil and gas exploration and development and creating a
competition mechanism for enterprises.
After they meet all the necessary requirements, all exploration districts,
development and construction projects should subject to open and fair competition in the
market, and the enterprises shall compete for oil and gas exploration and development on
the basis of qualification. Thus a competitive environment shall be set up in which the
well managed enterprises shall survive whereas the badly run ones shall be eliminated.
4.    Further expanding the opening up and international cooperation for the on-shore oil
exploration and development in China.
CNPC shall cooperate with foreign oil companies to explore and develop the blocks
in east and west China endorsed for joint ventures by the government, in accordance with
international practice and the relevant regulations. On the other hand, CNPC's activities
shall extend to the outside world and CNPC shall participate more vigorously in
competition in the international petroleum market, including concession contract and
cooperative development.
5.    Improving the state's macro-control and regulatory system.
The government administrative agencies shall be designated for macro-control and
their functions and responsibilities shall be clearly defined. The oil and gas prices shall
be rationalized and administrated prices shall be gradually unified with the market prices
and converge with the international price. The central-planned production and marketing
shall be gradually replaced by the market-based practice with state guidance, so that the
enterprises can operate independently with profit-maximizing as their objective. The
accounting system shall also be reformed to meet the international practice, and the
incidence of taxation be reduced and made more fair. The infrastructure of oil and gas
market should be improved and the market supervision and management be strengthened.
Those reforms shall be standardized and guaranteed through legislative process.
All the above mentioned reforns are to be implemented as part of the national
reformns in the economic system, and shall be basically completed by the end of 1990's.
Since the beginning of this year, great progress have been achieved great progress in
implementing CNPC's restructuring program, formulating regulations on operation
mechanism transformation of petroleum enterprises, transferring the operation power to the
--------_



- 58 -                          ANNEX 2.5
leve] of Petroleum Administrative Bureau, and determining the direction and basic
framework for the restructuring of CNPC.
The study for action plan concerning the sector and CNPC restructuring, as you are
aware, is being undertaken jointly by C&L Advisory Co. and the specialist group made
up of CNPC and government agencies. The final report shall be completed next year and
is expected to be put into practice step by step, in the context of the actual situations.
Yours sincerely,
Jin Renqing         (signed)
Vice Minister of Finance
People's Republic of China






- 59 -                        ANNEX 2 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE
RESTRUCTURING OF THE CHINA NATIONAL
PETROLEUM CORPORATION
A. BACKGROUND
Economic Reform in China
1.          The process of reform of the centrally planned Chinese economy to a
market-based economic system was initiated in the late 1970s. In recent years, it has
gained momentum, fuelled by past successes and the strong economic perforrnance of the
more-liberalized sectors of the economy. Considerable progress has been made in putting
in place the appropriate macroeconomic policy framework for the transition to a market-
based economy, from trade to price liberalization, to encouragement of foreign investment
and nonstate enterprise development, to decreased involvement of government agencies in
the management and operations of state enterprises. This is not to say that the process is
nearing completion. There is the need for further trade reform if China is to qualify for
participation in the GATT.  Moreover, there remain important concerns about the
relatively slow progress of reform in the financial and strategic sectors of the economy.
Further separation of government from enterprise management in the strategic industrial
sectors of the economy is required. There is not yet in place an appropriate legal and
regulatory framework, nor an effective competition policy, for the efficient functioning and
governing of a market-based economy. There has been only relatively modest progress
to date in the restructuring of state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Indeed, it will take time to
develop the new social systems to replace the present provision of housing, pension, health
and education benefits through public enterprises, and to generate the alternative sources
of employment opportunity that will be necessary before large levels of excess labor can
be shed from the SOEs.
2.          The process of reform has tended to lag in the designated strategic industrial
and energy sectors of the economy. These are dominated by large state-owned enterprises
(SOEs), many of which are relatively inefficient and high-cost operations. They are also
burdened by social obligations and government policies which are inconsistent with
efficient and competitive company performance in a market-based economy. Of the total
industrial enterprise losses, coal accounts for some 21 percent and crude oil a further
14 percent. This is in part due to "policy losses" from underpricing of energy. For the
SOEs to achieve financial viability and efficiency, a consensus appears to be emerging that
most industrial SOEs will require greater independence from state industrial bureaux and
planning commissions than is now the case; that they will need to undertake extensive
restructuring of their operations, focusing on their core business activities; and that they



-60 -                          ANNEX 2.6
will need to emphasize productivity enhancement, including change of management,
financial and inforrnation systems. Furthermore, these actions will need to progress in
parallel with reform of the policy framework governing their sectors, including further
liberalization of sector markets and prices. In recent months, significant price reforms
have been initiated in the energy sector; coal and crude oil prices are planned to be fully
liberalized within the next three years. Moreover, average levels of well-head gas prices
have been increased by some 50 percent. However, in order to mobilize the necessary
resources for sector development and to provide adequate incentives for efficient supply
and consumption of gas, further improvement in gas pricing and allocation is indicated.
Under the proposed Bank-financed Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project,
the Sichuan authorities would prepare shortly a time-bound reform action plan based
largely on a Sichuan Gas Allocation and Pricing Study recently been completed with the
assistance of international consultants.
3.           A major task of the ongoing enterprise reform in China is to define and
separate the different functions of the various groups concerned with the supervision and
operation of the SOEs. During the last decade, various reform measures were introduced
to increase the autonomy of state-owned enterprises, most notable among these is the
contract responsibility system (CRS) whereby the SOEs are held accountable under
performance contracts concluded with the government.  However, the CRS has not
resolved the confusion of fiscal and investment decisions, and SOEs continue to renegotiate
their obligations and benefits with the government. Recent reformn initiatives to refine the
CRS are linked to tax reform to separate taxes (which are to be rule-based) and profit
targets of SOEs.
4.           The enterprise policy framework governing the SOEs has been considerably
improved by the Regulazions on Transforming the Management Mechanisms of State-Owned
Industrial Enterprises (NOM) issued in July 1992. The NOM is the core of China's new
governance policy towards the SOEs. The guiding principles of the NOM are to separate
government administration from enterprise management, increase the autonomy and
accountability of state-owned enterprises, increase competition and market-orientation.
With the NOM, enterprise management is granted clear authority over most economic
decisions, including prices, production, sourcing and employment. As owner, the state
retains the right of approval over such important matters as large capital investments, joint
ventures, mergers and acquisitions. The NOM does not, however, address certain key
issues such as the government oversight function, ownership and the SOE corporate form.
In addition to the NOM, Regulations on Enterprises' Shareholding System Experiment were
issued in 1992 to promote the restructuring of state enterprises as shareholding companies.
In this connection, the government has issued its Views on Standards for Limited Share
Companies and Views on Standards for Limited Liability Companies. All these efforts are
indicative of the government's resolve to eventually transform the state enterprise system
into a full-fledged independent corporate structure.
5.           All the state-owned enterprises in China follow  a unified enterprise
accounting system. As a first step to modernize the accounting system in China, the
general principles of enterprise accounting have recently been revised by the Ministry of



-61-                           ANNEX 2.6
Finance (MOF). These revised principles are generally consistent with those of inter-
national accounting standards. Within this broad framework, general accounting standards
are being developed with technical assistance of international consultants. In addition.
Specific accounting standards for selected sectors, including oil and gas (notably accounting
treatment of exploration costs), would also be revised and developed in accordance with
international accounting standards.
Oil and Gas Sector Management and Reform
6.           Coal meets approximately three quarters of China's commercial energy
needs. The shares of oil and gas in energy consumption are about 17 percent and 2
percent, respectively. China is a net exporter of oil, with annual production in 1991 at 140
million tons and exports of 17 million tons of oil/products (net of imports). China's oil
production is largely from onshore fields with production from the Daqing and Shengli oil
fields accounting for approximately 64 percent of total production. Most of the major oil
and gas producing fields in China are considered mature and many of these fields have al-
ready experienced natural production decline. Consequently, total domestic oil production
has been increasing relatively slowly in recent years, and not keeping pace with the growth
in domestic demand for petroleum products which has been increasing in parallel with the
strong growth in the economy. Thus, the recent trend of net oil/product export decline is
expected to continue and China could become a net oil importer in the near to medium
term.
7.           Demand for natural gas has been supply-constrained for a number of years.
Gas production has been increasing by 2-3 percent per annum in recent years, to reach
15.4 billion cubic meters in 1991.  Of this total, roughly half is nonassociated gas
production, ninety percent of which is produced in Sichuan province. The remaining
production is associated with onshore oil production. Sichuan gas production is planned
to increase from the present level of 6.5 bcm to 8.0 bcm in 2000, to be achieved through
increased budgets for exploration and development. The Chinese authorities are also
promoting gas-oriented exploration in other regions with the objective of diversifying
supply sources and increasing the nonassociated gas portion of domestic supplies.
8.           The Government has recognized both the need to accelerate oil and gas
explorations and development activity, and the benefits to the nation of involvement of the
IOCs in this endeavor (not only from the perspective of capital resources but also the
transfer of technology and expertise that accompanies foreign investment). From the early
1980s exploration in offshore basins has been open to foreign investment, although
exploration results have been modest. In 1986, the IOCs were also invited to explore
onshore basins in eleven southern provinces. In recent months, there has been a renewed
effort to involve the IOCs in the onshore exploration and production efforts. Twelve
regions in China will be opened for foreign investments, including the prospective Tarim
Basin in the northwest and existing oil fields in northern and eastern China.
9.           Until 1988, the Ministry of Petroleum lndustry (MOPI) generally oversaw
all upstream activities in the oil and gas sector. As part of the administrative reform in



- 62 -                         ANNEX 2.6
1988, the responsibility for overseeing the entire energy sector was consolidated under the
Ministry of Energy (MOE). The former MOPI was transformed into a corporation, the
China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), which continues to report directly to the
State Council.  Since further administrative reforms in March 1993, MOE has been
replaced by the Ministries of Power and Coal. The State Pricing Bureau is responsible for
setting energy prices. The State Planning Commission has the responsibility for review
and approval of the CNPC strategic plan and investment program, on behalf of the State
Council. The newly established Economic and Trade Commission (ETC) oversees national
economic policy. The Ministry of Finance approves CNPC's accounting standards, annual
budget, tax and profits remittance to the government. CNPC's trade activities require the
approval and authorization of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations.
10.         The oil and gas sector in China is characterized by the compartmentalization
of responsibilities.  CNPC is in charge of all onshore exploration and development
activities in China. The China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC), created in
1982, is responsible for offshore operations, including negotiations and administration of
production sharing agreements with international oil companies.  The Petrochemical
Corporation of China (SINOPEC) is responsible for most petroleum refining and
petrochemical production based on liquid petroleum feedstocks. The Ministry of Chemical
Industry (MCI) is responsible for petrochemical plants using natural gas and coal as
feedstocks. The China Chemical Industry Import/Export Corporation (SINOCHEM) is in
charge of oil and products trading. As part of a recent reform initiative, China United Oil
Company (Sinoil), a joint stock; company with limited liability has been established by
CNPC  and Sinochem  (each with 50 percent ownership).  Sinoil's operations cover
import/export of oil and refined products as well as overseas investment in oil/gas
ventures.
11.         There are eight enterprises affiliated with CNPC headquarters in Beijing,
each operating as independent economic entities. In addition, there are 36 subsidiaries also
operating as separate legal entities.  Amongst this group, 22 are regional petroleum
administrative bureaus which are responsible for petroleum exploration and production, and
3 for oil/gas transport. Total employment is reported by management to be in the order
of 1.4 million, of which about one million are employed in provision of auxiliary services
for oilfield support (including geophysical and geological service companies, drilling and
oLher oilfield auxiliary service companies, petroleum engineering and construction
companies and petroleum research and educational institutes) and social welfare (including
employee housing, schools and hospitals).
12.          The Chinese authorities are committed to introducing a far-reaching program
of oil and gas sector reform.  Reforms are needed both in the organization and
management of public enterprises, and in the policy environment in which they operate to
offer a "level playing field." The ultimate objectives of the sector reform process for
CNPC are set out below:
(a)   accelerated growth of oil and gas production in order to support economic
development;



-63 -                           ANNEX 2.6
(b)   the creation of a competitive domestic oil market;
(c)   the development of Chinese exploration and production companies, oil field
supply service companies and specialized petroleum and exploration
consulting firms which will be efficient and competitive both in the domestic
oil market and, over time, will become competitive in the international
market.
13.          As an SOE, CNPC is now challenged to implement the NOM and to develop
recommendations on the oil and gas sector policy framework to induce efficiency gains
within the broad framework of the national enterprise reform. To this end, CNPC has
established reformn management units at headquarters and in all of its larger operating
subsidiaries. It has encouraged its subsidiaries to explore new management and incentive
systems, and to examine how they might best separate their core business activities from
their ancillary oil field supply, service and construction activities. CNPC has also sought
out the experience and expertise of international oil companies and consultants on subjects
pertaining to oil and gas sector reform and state oil company restructuring, through such
vehicles as a workshop on international Petroleum Management and Reform held in Beijing
in July, 1992 under the joint sponsorship of CNPC and the World Bank. Based on the
reconmnendations emerging from this workshop, a comprehensive restructuring action plan
would be developed. To provide an analytical framework for building consensus on a
detailed program of action to achieve the transition/transformation of the sector in line with
the above reform objectives, a local team headed by CNPC would collaborate with
international consultants financed under the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) to carry out a
restructuring study.
B. STUDY OBJEcrIvEs AND SCOPE
14.          The principal objective of the study is to develop detailed, practical
recommendations on reforms both in the organization and management of CNPC, and in
the policy environment and legal/regulatory framework which are consistent with the
objectives for sector reform (para. 12). In addressing the issue of how best to restructure
CNPC, the study should give highest priority to the operational efficiency and financial
viability of both the existing entities and any new enterprises to be established.  In
recomrnending the creation of new enterprises, emphasis is also to be placed on the
development of competitive markets for the different oil field services, including drilling,
seismic acquisition and processing, as well as for exploration and production.
15.          International consultants would work closely with the Chinese study task
force on the following subject matters:
(a)    Sector reform strategy and policy reform framework;
(b)    Legal and regulatory framework for the sector, including:



-64-                           ANNEX 2.6
(i)  separation of government (policy, taxation and regulation) and
enterprise (operational) functions,
(ii)  the government oversight function and petroleum industry regulation,
and
(iii) petroleum law and sector taxation;
(c)   Competition policy and market development;
(d)   CNPC instirutional restructuring (including development of a model of
CNPC organization and management toward commercialization and
corporatization of CNPC entities);
(e)   Detailed implementation plan of the reform program; and
(f)    Training.
16.         In view of the complexity and multidisciplinary nature of the study, the
study is broadly divided into three modules:  (a) Module I-commercialization and
corporatization of CNPC; (b) Module II-policy and governance: rationalization of
relationship between the government and CNPC and the role of a regulatory authority; and
(c) Module III-legal framework. The international consultants for carrying out Module
I above are also invited to submit proposals for an option to carry out Module II as well.
Separate international consultants are expected to be hired to carry out, in parallel, Module
III. The consultants for different modules will coordinate closely with each other as the
modules are interrelated and there are some obvious overlaps.
17.         The study would proceed in two main phases. The first phase will include:
(a)   a critical assessment of the present institutional, legal, regulatory and
financial framework; identification of the principal issues and factors
hampering CNPC's efficient operation and development and the major areas
that will need to be addressed in the restructuring program;
(b)   an assessment of different, potentially promising organizational models for
CNPC, taking into account relevant international experience and practices;
and
(c)    development of pilot programs for the restructuring of two of CNPC's
subsidiaries, the Sichuan Petroleum Administration [SPA is a major
nonassociated gas producer with gas production of about 6.5 bcm in 1992]
and Dagang Petroleum Administration [DPA, Dagang is the sixth largest
oilfield in China with oil production of about 3.9 million tons in 1992].
CNPC's approach to reform is to use these demonstration programs to



-65 -                          ANNEX 2.6
explore options, and then build on the lessons learned from the pilot results
prior to company-wide implementation.
18.         The output of the first phase would be an interim report that would provide
the basis for a workshop in China. This workshop would be jointly sponsored by the
Government and the World Bank. Those selected reform options would then become the
focus of a second phase of analytical work.
19.         The second phase would include:
(a)   implementation of pilot programs for restructuring CNPC's two subsidiaries,
SPA and DPA, with the assistance of the international consultant; and
(b)   analyses in considerable depth of the scope and pace of implementing these
measures with a view to ensuring a smooth transition toward achieving the
full reform agenda over the longer term. The output of the second phase
of the study would include an evaluation of the results of the pilot programs.
MODULE I: COMMERCIALIZATION AND CORPORATIZATION OF CNPC
20.          The scope of the module on "commercialization and corporatization of
CNPC" would include the following:
For CNPC as a whole,
(a)    An assessment of the overall sector management and administrative
framework within which CNPC operates.
(b)   A critical review of the existing CNPC organizational structure, including
the relationships and linkages between CNPC and its eight headquarter
affiliates and thirty-six subsidiaries.
(c)    An assessment of the need to "simplify" CNPC and concentrate on core
business activities, and related benefits.
(d)   An analysis of the options/constraints for restructuring its core and auxiliary
business activities, with particular attention to be paid to the issues of labor
redundancies and social obligations.
(e)    An assessment of the merit of establishing one or more vertically integrated
petroleum companies. (CNPC wishes to explore if there is merit in moving
into downstream petroleum operations).



- 66 -                         ANNEX 2.6
(f)    A  detailed  analysis  of the  reforrn  options  and  constraints  for
commercializing and corporatizing CNPC core and auxiliary business
activities,
(g)   A detailed analysis of possible forms of ownership and diversification of
financing for CNPC's different businesses and other activities.  In this
connection, CNPC has expressed an interest in promoting experiments in the
joint stock company option. Assess the organizational structure and legal
framework required for the transformation of CNPC into a joint stock
company, including the establishment of corporate governance instances and
functions.
(h)   Develop detailed recommendations for restructuring CNPC, including a
program for commercialization and corporatization.
(i)    Design a detailed multiphase implementation program for CNPC reform,
including prioritization and sequencing of actions and a timetable for
implementation; and
(j)   Identification of staffing and skills required to implement the reform
program, and preparation of an appropriate training program.
For CNPC's two subsidiaries, SPA and DPA,
21.          Within  the  above  reform  framework  for overall CNPC, detailed
implementation programs for restructuring SPA and DPA would be developed. The scope
of work would include the following:
(a)    An assessment of the present organization structure, management techniques
and procedures, including performance indicators and incentive system, and
the impact on managerial accountability and operational efficiency.
(b)   An assessment of the present policies and procedures for corporate planning
and financial management, including pricing, investment financing, cost
controls and financial reporting.
(c)    An assessment of present staffing levels, skill mix, employment and
compensation programs and procedures.
(d)   A review of present supply sourcing policies and procedures.
(e)    An assessment of recent operating performance in the principal core
business units and auxiliary service units.
(f)    An assessment of the potential for improved efficiency within the existing
organizational structure.



- 67 -                          A.NNEX  .26
(g)    An  analysis  of options  for  restructuring  the  regional  petroleum
administrations, assuming spinoff of service companies.
(h)    Develop  for  each  regional  administration  recommendations  for
cominmercialization and corporatization, a productivity enhancement program
and related human resources development program.
(i)    Develop for each regional administration a restructuring strategy and a
detailed implementation program, including prioritization and sequencing of
actions and a timetable for implementation.
(j)   Identification of staffing and skills required to implement the reform
program, and preparation of an appropriate training program.
MODULE II: POLICY AND GOVERNANCE
22.          The scope of the module on "policy and governance" would include the
following, and elaborations of the areas which are of special interest are attached:
Sector Policy Framework
23.          In collaboration with the counterpart team, establish what is the present
situation for the subjects listed below, and their reform status, and examine what further
initiatives are required to achieve sector reform objectives:
(a)    energy pricing and the timetable for removing remaining price subsidies;
(b)    competition between producers for oil and gas, respectively, including
internal and external conditions for companies to enter the market and
various forms of ownership, including foreign companies;
(c)    organization and various forms of ownership of oil and gas pipelines and
storage facilities, including possible separation of pipelines from the
production companies and open access to oil and gas pipelines;
(d)    restrictions on interprovincial and international trade in oil and gas and
oilfield-related supplies and services;
(e)    regional barriers to the movement of capital, labor and other factors of
production;
(f)    discrimination in the fiscal regime, on access to capital, on access to
exploration prospects, etc;



- 68 -                         ANNEX 2.6
(g)   policies towards investment (both foreign and local) in the different
segments of the oil and gas business; and
(h)   state-owned enterprise social service obligations to employee and reform of
social service delivery systems.
Government and CNPC Relationship
(a)    Analyze how CNPC now interfaces with the Government and the Petroleum
Administrative Bureau, and examine the ramifications of this for CNPC
performance and financial viability, and for achieving in the future a
competitive, market-based oil and gas sector.
(b)   Assess the reform options with respect to the following aspects, taking into
account the experience of other countries which have made the transition
from an administered petroleum industry dominated by the state oil company
to one that is market-driven and in which there is competition between
companies:
(i)  enterprise rights and obligations;
(ii)  the rights and obligations of shareholders (private or state);
(iii)  how best for the state to exercise its ownership rights while staying
at arm's length with respect to management of the state enterprise;
(iv)  the appropriate role for the board of directors of a state-owned
enterprise;
(v)  which government policy functions are considered essential to
effective governance of the industry, and of these which can be
delegated to a regulatory agency; and
(vi)  how best to achieve the transfer of authorities in a transitional
period.
(c)   In consultation with the Chinese study team, develop recommendations for
a phased reform program toward rationalization of government and
enterprise relationship, focusing on the division of responsibilities between
the Government, CNPC and regulator authority.
The Role of the Regulatory Authority
(a)    Establish in what areas petroleum  industry operations are now de facto
regulated, by which government agency or department and under what
authority, and come to a judgement as to the adequacy of the present system



-69 -                          ANNEX 2.6
vis-a-vis a market-based oil and gas industry in which there is competition
amongst a number of oil companies.
(b)   Define and seek agreement upon the subject areas which require regulation,
including safety, environment, commercial and technical aspects; the
principles and policies which will govern regulation of the sector, and the
status and powers of the regulatory authority(ies) to be established.
(c)    Develop a preliminary outline of the powers, responsibilities and structure
of the regulatory authority(ies) and assist in defining its role relative to other
official bodies, taking into account the experience of alternative approaches
to petroleum industry regulation followed in other countries.
(d)   Identify the appropriate legal framework and laws needed to establish and
empower the regulatory authority(ies).
C. STUDY ORGANIZATION, REPORTING AND TIME SCHEDULE
24.         At the request of the Chinese government, the World Bank is providing
assistance to the govermnent in executing the study for administrative purposes. In this
respect, the Bank will issue a contract to the consultant to provide essential services in
carrying out the study. While the Bank and the government will jointly oversee the work
of the consultant, the ultimate client is the People's Republic of China and its implementing
agencies. A local study team will be involved in the day-to-day supervision and structuring
activities of the study. This is a study of the Chinese authorities who have the primary
responsibility in the preparation of a reform action plan. The international consultant, who
is responsible for providing technical assistance and training to the Chinese counterpart
team, must pay particular attention to ensure that the Chinese counterpart is "on board"
throughout the study process. In this connection, the international consultants would bring
to bear their intemational experience and facilitate the induction of modern organization
and management techniques in the oil and gas industry. To facilitate the exchange of ideas
between the international consultants and the local counterpart team, the consultants will
conduct workshops in China in conjunction with carrying out the proposed study. It is
envisaged that a minimum of three workshops would be conducted during the inception
stage, and at the end of phases 1 and 2 of the study.
25.     A Leading Group will be established which will oversee the work of the Chinese
project team and international consultants. It will provide study direction, review principal
study findings and recommendations and guide the consultants on the course to be followed
in implementation of the CNPC reform program. The Leading Group will be comprised
of senior representatives of CNPC and concerned Chinese government departments and
representatives of the concerned World Bank departments.
26.     The local counterpart study team, headed by CNPC, is in place. It is comprised
of senior officials from CNPC, the Economic and Trade Office and the Development Study



- 70-                          ANNEX 2.6
Center of the State Cou.ncil, State Planning Commission, the State System  Reform
Commission and the Ministry of Finance. The local task force would collaborate with the
World Bank and JGF-financed international consultants in carrying out the studies. The
international consultant is directed to collaborate closely with the counterpart team and
involve it as much as possible in completion of the study program of work and the analysis
of study options, the development of reform strategy recommendations and preparation of
the implementation program. To this end, it will provide training seminar(s) at the outset
of the project, going into detail on the study methodology and information requirements.
The counterpart team will also assist in providing information and arranging meetings with
the Chinese authorities. It will also provide translation services.
27.       On reporting, the consultant will prepare an interim report on phase 1 of the
study and a draft final report on phases 1 and 2. The study final report will be completed
incorporating the comments and conclusions of the Leading Group. All the reports will
be in English. Five copies of all the reports will be sent to CNPC and ten copies of them
to the Bank. In addition, the consultant will prepare monthly progress reports, to be sent
to the Bank and CNPC covering the following subjects: the results of the work performed
to date, progress on completion of the work program and adherence to the study program
schedule and outstanding issues/problems encountered.
28.      Study Time Schedule.
October 1993 -
March 1994         Workshops/fieldwork/issues  identification/option
analysis
April 1994         Interim report
May 1994           Leading Group review, workshop, direction on the
Phase 2 program of work
June/July 1994     Refinement  of  option   analysis,  workshops,
development of recommendations on reform strategy
and implementation
August 1994        Review and consultation within Leading Group re
Phase 2 findings and recommendations
September 1994     Submission of draft final report and program of action
October 1994       Submission of study report.



- 71 -           %             ANNEX 2,6
MODULE II: POLICY AND GOVERNANCE
AREAS OF SPECIAL INrEREST
The Chinese study team is responsible for the study and design of policy and
regulation under "Module III", taking into account the experience of foreign countries.
International Consultants are responsible for providing suggestions to address the following
questions mainly based on data gathering and analyses of the relevant policies and
regulations in main oil-produced countries (including at least USA, Russia, Mexico,
Venezuela, Brazil, Britain, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia, etc.); the following
aspects should be classified into different models with analyses of their relative pros and
cons, then develop recommendations.
Governance on Oil/Gas Sector
*     Which government agencies or departments are empowered to govern the
oil/gas sector. How do they divide their duties and responsibilities and who
is responsible for coordination between them?
*     'What are these regulatory authorities' focus and scope, e.g., to protect
domestic resources, oversee the appropriate exploration and development,
guarantee stable supply of oil/gas as well as safety, environmental protection
or prevent excess profits, etc?
*     What ways and means does the government use and at what degree to
regulate the petroleum sector?
Which organ (government agency or nongovernment one) and at what scope
and degree governs oil/gas resources, especially which organ and how does
it manage risky exploration and who assumes these risks? How are oil/gas
reserves managed and who confirms these reserves and how to price them?
How are the proven reserves usually transferred to the producers? How to
recover the exploration capital investment?
Based on the conditions of the main oil producing countries, the above aspects should be
classified into different models with analyses of their relative pros and cons, then develop
recommendations.
Government and National Oil Corporation Relationship
*     What is the legal basis to establish National Oil Corporations (NOCs) in
each country? What are the major types of legal basis?
a     Who represents the ownership of state assets in an NOC-is it a government
agency (e.g., Ministry of Finance) or some other organs to represent the
state? What are the major types of representatives in state asset ownership?



- 72 -                        ANNEX 2.6
Compare to a non-NOC, what special responsibilities does an NOC have to
assume? What special powers and favorable conditions are given to the
NOC? If an NOC suffers economic loss through the assumption of special
responsibilities, e.g., stabilize price and supply, does the Government
compensate the NOC? What are the major types of compensation?
*     How to allocate profits between Government and NOC. What are the major
types of profit allocation?
*     Do NOC and non-NOC compete on the same level in the same country? Are
there any discriminations? How does Government ensure fair market
competition, including competition between the subsidiaries of NOCs?
*     Are there any special government requirements regarding the content,
methods and scope of NOC management ? And how to achieve these
requirements in reality?
Please use actual examples to illustrate and analyze the above aspects, then develop
recommendations.
Regulatory Authority
*     Regarding the necessity and legal basis to set up a regulatory authority
between the governrnent and oil companies, what are the major types of
such regulatory authority in other countries?
*     The legal status, power, functions and responsibilities of the regulatory
authority.
*     What ways and means does the authority use to govern?
*     The relationships between the regulatory authority and other government
agencies, (e.g., Ministry of Petroleum or Ministry of Energy) and oil
companies.
Analyze the above aspects by citing actual examples and compare them, then develop
recomnmendations to the Chinese team.
Sector Policy
Analyze the petroleum exploration and development policies of major oil
producing countries, including the background of policy setting, policy evolution and
differences among these countries. The major areas include:
*     Policy on Resources



- 73-                           ANNEX 2.6
(a)    What are the appropriate policy reforms to protect oil/gas resources,
rationalize development and utilization of resources, prevent adverse
resource development and monopoly, abuse, excessive competition and
wastage of resources?
(b)    Which of these policies are effective and can be applied to China?
*     Pricing Policy
(a)    Price setting basis for oil/gas
(b)    Price setting for transmission by pipelines
(c)    Are these prices controlled and regulated by the government? Which of the
methods are the most effective ?
(d)    Are there differences in pricing due to different development stages of
oil/gas fields, different oil/gas qualities? If so, how to set prices and on
what basis?
*     Tax Policy
(a)    Are there any special policies to stimulate exploration investment?
(b)    Are there any forms of discrimination over the taxation and tax rates due to
significant differentials in production cost and profits because of different
qualities of oil and gas (e.g., wax content, sulphur content, or viscous oil,
sour condensate  oil and  high-pour-point oil), reservoir depths and
development stages?
(c)    What are the policies on encouraging the development of fields which have
low profits so as to increase the degree of resource utilization?
(d)    How about the oil company(ies) which suffer losses due to high cost at the
stage of the tertiary recovery? Does the government give them special
policy?
(e)    Does the government use tax policy to adjust and transfer different profits
amongst the oil companies?
Analyze and compare the tax policies in different countries and recommend to the Chinese
team practical and effective tax policies.
*      Investment Policy



-74-                          ANNEX 2.6
(a)   W%hat investment policies (including foreign capital) for oil/gas exploration
and development have been set by the main oil-producing countries? What
are the major types of these policies?
(b)   What are the differences of these policies?  Which of them are the most
effective?
*     Trade Policy
Are there any policy restraints or restrictions over oil/gas import and export in each oil
producing country? What are the differences in these policies? What are their results?
Competition Policy & Market Requirements
*     Analyze and provide some facts about the national oil industries (in at least
three countries) which have made the transition from a nonrnarket system
to a market-based one. What are the main difficulties and barriers during
the transition? And how to overcome them by means of appropriate policies
and measures?
What is the role of Government in developing and governing the oil/gas
market mechanisms to protect and encourage oil companies competing at the
same level.
Are there any policies to be used to encourage open and fair competition
between oil companies and service ones, and prevent monopoly, unfair
competition or illicit behavior.
Provide the following actual examples on open competition amongst
companies following market regulations: one onshore regional exploration
project, one onshore concession development project and one competitive
bidding for onshore drilling; analyze the different areas of market
management in exploration and development and highlight the main issues.
Organization, operating mechanisms of oil and gas transmission enterprises,
their relationships with    the producers, marketers (oil companies), and
how to prevent monopoly and illicit competition.
Price and tax policies for service companies (e.g., geophysical prospecting,
well drilling, logging, construction, down-hole service, etc.).
In addressing the above questions, the international consultant should include actual
examples, statistics, analysis and concrete recommendations (not only conceptual).
Chinese study team will put forward more questions on the basis of the answers to the
above questions in order to deepen the study gradually.



- 75 -                             ANNEX 3.I
SICIHUAN PROVIINCE COMMERCIAL ENERGY BALANCE
1970-1990
(in % of total consumption)
Tot       _             %  of Total Consumption
Year    Consumption       Coal          Oil          Gas         Hydro
m tce *                                              Power
1970            16.38           74          6.0          16.2          3.8
1971            21.17         77.3          3.3          15.7          3.7
1972            23.29           76          3.3          15.5          5.2
1973            23.39         72.3           3.6         16.5          7.6
1974            23.80         68.9          4.7          17.3          9.1
1975            29.94         70.6          4.4          16.5          8.5
1976            30.31         68.4           4.3         18.9          8.4
1977            36.19         68.8          4.0          18.7          8.5
1978            38.48         68.5          4.3          19.4          7.8
1979            39.36         67.8          4.6          19.1          8.5
1980            41.25         71.4           3.2         17.5          7.9
1981            40.05         72.9           3.3         15.2          8.6
1982            40.30         71.9           5.4         13.6          9.1
1983            43.30         72.4           5.5         12.8          9.3
1984            47.96          74.1          5.4         11.8          8.7
1985            52.50         74.8           5.3         11.0          8.9
1986            55.40          72.6          5.7         12.3          9.4
19S7            58.16          74.1          5.1         11.7          9.1
1988            63.18          74.9          4.8         10.9          9.4
1989            65.03          74.2          4.5         11.4          9.9
1990            63.12          74.3          4.1         11.4         10.2
Source: Sichuan Statistical Yearbook, 1991
* m tce: in mnillion ton coal equivalent



S!ichuani Gas ConsulmIption
1987 --1992
(BCM)
Year                       1987              1988               1989               1990              1991               1992
1CM        5        C BCM    %       BCM                BCM       %       BCM        %       BCM       %
Towal Production                     5.9                5.9                6.3               6.4               6.5                6.5
Producer's Own Use                   0.5                0.4               0.6                0.5               0.5                0.6
Comnmercial Sales                    5.4       100      5.5      100      5.7       100      5.9      100      5.9       100      5.9      100
1. Chemical Industry                 3.3       61       3.5      63       3.6       64       3.8      64       3.8       64       3.9      65
a. Fertilizer Plants                2.8       52       2.8      52       3.0       53       3.2      53       3.1       52       3.2      54
Sichuan                         0.6       11       0.6       11      0.6       11       0.6       11      0.6       10       0.6       10
Luzhou                          0.6       12       0.6      11       0.6       11       0.6       10      0.6       10       0.6       10
Yunnan                          0.4       8        0.4       8       0.4        8       0.4       8       0.4        7       0.4       7
Guizhou                         0.4       8        0.4       8       0.5        8       0.4       8       0.4        7       0.4       7
Small Fertilizer                0.7       14       0.8      14       0.9       15       1.0       17       1.0      18       1.2      20
b. Other Chemicals                 0.5        8       0.6       1 1     0.6       11       0.6       11       0.7      11       0.7       11
Sichuan Nylon                   0.4       7        0.4       7       0.3       6        0.4       6       0.4        7       0.4       6
Others                          0.1        1       0.3       5       0.3       5        0.3       5       0.3        5       0.3       S
2. Metallurgy                        0.6       12       0.7       12      0.7       12       0.7       11      0.7       11       0.7       11
Great Wall Special steel            0.1       I        0.1       2       0.1       2        0.1       2       0.1       2        0.1       2
Chengdu Seamless Steel              0.1       2       0.1        3       0.1       3        0.1       3       0.1       2        0.1       2
Weiy.an Steel                       0.0       0        0.0       0       0.0       0        0.0       0       0.0        0       0.0       0
Chengdu Steel                       0.0       0       0.0        0       0.0        1       0.0       1       0.0        I       0.0       0
Chongqing Steel                     0.3       5       0.2        5       0.2       4        0.2       4       0.2        3       0.2       3
ChongQing Second                    0.1       2       0.1        2       0.1       2        0.1       2       0.1       2        0.1       2
Others                              0.0       1       0.0        1       0.0        1       0.0       1       0.0        1       0.0       1
3. Machinery                         0.4        8       0.4       8       0.4        7       0.4       6        0.4       7       0.4       7
Secood Heavy Machinery              0.1       1       0.1        1       0.1        1       0.1       1       0.1        1       0.1       I
Others                              0.3       6       0.4        6       0.3       6        0.3       5       0.3        6       0.4       6
4. Light Industry                    0.4       7        0.4       7       0.4        6       0.4       6        0.4       6       0.3       5             Z
5. Residential                       0.2       4        0.3       5       0.3        6       0.3       6        0.4       6       0.4       7             Z7-
6. Others                            0.5       9        0.3       6       0.3        6       0.4       6        0.4       6       0.3        5
(A



Sichuan Gas Consuinption                                                                      Sichuan Gas Consumption
1987                                                                                         1992
(BCN)                                                                                        (BCM
Otheri                                                                             Residenti I        Sferv
9%                                                                                     %5%
',D1
Litht Industry 7%
Machinery 7%
Machinery 8%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ifle
Fcrlili"r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FriIz 
Plant&
52   Metallurty                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plants
54 %
12 %Ote
Chernicals                                                                               Chierical.
3%                                                               11~~~~~~~~~~~~~%
z
z~
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _             rm



- 78 -                         ANNEX 3.3
ENERGY CONSERVATION IN SICHUAN
Institutions
1.           Sichuan Province has in place an elaborate system  of institutions for
initiating, evaluating, implementing and monitoring energy conservation activities in the
Province. The principal organizations involved in this field of activity at provincial level
are:
(a)   The Sichuan Province Planning Commission. The Commission, which
reports to the State Planning Commission (SPC), is responsible for setting
overall policy regarding energy conservation activities in Sichuan. In 1992,
it set up a Resources Conservation and Comprehensive Utilization
Division,responsible for these activities in the fields of water, electricity,
coal, oil, natural gas and raw material recycling. They are ultimately
responsible for setting energy consumption quotas and (in collaboration with
the Provincial Bureau of Standards and Measurement) promulgating
equipment and unit energy consumption standards for the various industrial
subsectors; and
(b)   Offices set up jointly by provincial government departments and bureaux
and the energy producers which are responsible for the allocation of their
specific energy carriers to each consuming enterprise, as well as overseeing
energy conservation activities in the production units under their control.
These offices include:
(i) The Three Electricity Office (responsible for power allocation,
power conservation, and safety in power production, distribution and
utilization),
(ii) Coal Conservation Office,
(iii) Petroleum Products Conservation Office (most petroleum products
consumed in Sichuan are imported into the Province),
(iv) Natural Gas Conservation Office,
(v) Water Conservation Office, and
(vi)  Raw Material Recycling Office.
(c)    There are also, at provincial level, parallel organizations which oversee the
activities of the energy consuming enterprises and residential users.
Prominent in the energy conservation field are the Provincial Government
Departments of Chemical Industry, Metallurgy and Machine Building.



. 79 -                        ANNEX 3.3
These departments pr ovide annual energv conservation targets to the
individual enterprises in their subsectors, and monitor their performance.
(d)   Every industrial enterprise in the Province has an Energy Conservation
Engineer who is responsible for ensuring that energy conservation activities
are carried out according to the guidelines issued by the above
organizations, to ensure that the energy consumption quotas are not
exceeded and to carry out effective housekeeping measures on the plants.
In the larger enterprises, energy conservation groups have been established
which are capable of carrying out energy audits and developing their own
energy  conservation  programs.   They  frequently  pass on  energy
conservation know-how to the smaller companies, using the Provincial
Governmnent Industrial Departments as the conduits.
(e)   A Provincial Energy Conservation Service Center and a number of
municipal service centers have been established to provide technical
consultancy and energy audits to the enterprises in their geographical areas.
The main functions of the Provincial Center are:
(i)  to provide to the provincial government recommendations and
background information for energy conservation policies and
regulations; and
(ii)  to give technical guidance to the Energy Conservation Service
Centers at municipal and county levels.
(f)    The Municipal Service Centers are the core of the system, providing
practical implementation of energy conservation policies; they provide a
bridge between the planning and monitoring functions of the Government
and the practical issues faced by the enterprises. Their principal functions
are:
(i)  performing energy audits for small and medium-size enterprises;
(ii)  monitoring energy consumption;
(iii)  designing equipment;
(iv)  introducing  innovative equipment and procedures for energy
conservation;
(v)  providing information dissemination;
(vi)  through training courses, seminars, etc., enhancing the understanding
of enterprise managements about the potentials of energy
conservation. In accordance with the plans elaborated by the Energy
Conservation Offices, the Center carries out energy audits and may
also implement the installation of the required equipment, processes
and procedures for energy conservation.  The Center may also
undertake similar activities commissioned by an individual enterprise
and receive a fee for its services.



- 80 -                          ANNEX 3.3
Incentives
2.                  There are three main forms of incentives for enterprise managements
to conserve energy. All are based on energy consumption of the enterprise compared to
the norms and allocations decreed by the state and provincial authorities.
(a)    A two-tier energy pricing system has been in operation for some time and
is currently being improved. In the new system for natural gas, which
began on June 1, 1993, enterprises will have to sign contracts to take a
contractual amount of gas every month; this quantity is based on a quota
allocation, (a quota which in general will be less than in previous contracts).
Except when the enterprise is shutdown for planned maintenance or is
operating on a reduced level of gas offtake contractually agreed, the
enterprise will pay for the total amount of gas stipulated in the contract,
regardless of the actual offtake up to the quota granted. The unit gas price
will be based on a wellhead price which is expected to average out at about
Y 0.24 per cubic meter, to which must be added transport and purification
costs. Typical wellhead prices (in Yuan per cubic meter) are as follows:
For fertilizer plants      0.22
Other industrial users     0.24
Residential users          0.28
Commercial users           0.42
If quantities of gas in excess of the quota are consumed, a higher price will
be charged,(subject to contract negotiations). For such excess quantities
delivered, it is expected that industrial users will pay about Y 0.40 per cubic
meter and commercial users about Y 0.62 per cubic meter for quantities
supplied over and above the quota.. This arrangement is expected to be in
force for about a year. Substantial price increases will take place in 1994
and thereafter.
(b)    At times when there is a constraint on the supply of a particular energy
carrier (due to production unit malfunction or other causes) those enterprises
currently consuming more than their quota would find their supply of energy
cutoff.
Effectiveness of Energy Conservation Activities
3.           Three main criteria have been used to measure the effectiveness of energy
conservation activities over time:
(a)    Global energy consumption (measured in tons of coal equivalent (tce) per
Y 100 million GNP;



- 81 -                          ANNEX 3.3
(b)   Industrial power consumption (in kWh) per Y 10,000 of industrial output;
and
(c)    Industrial energy consumption (in tce) per Y 10,000 of industrial output.
The following table shows the actual figures for Sichuan Province in 1992 and the planned
targets for 1993:
1992      1993   % Reduction
Global Energy Consumption            51,500   50,500          1.94
Industrial Power Consumption           2,100     2,040        2.86
Industrial Energy Consumption            3.0      2.96        1.33
In 1992, 1.9 million tce was conserved (compared to the 1991 energy consumption; the
planned saving in 1993 (over the 1992 consumption level) is 2.0 million tce.
Historical Perspective
4.           In the early 1980s, a national campaign of energy conservation was initiated.
Since there was a shortage of indigenous energy resources in Sichuan, the conservation
campaign was taken up intensively by the Provincial Government. As a result, in the
period 1981-89, a total of Y 10 billion was invested in Sichuan for energy conservation
projects.l/ This investment had led by 1990 to a cumulative saving of 18 million tons
of coal equivalent (tce) per year. Thus the total energy saved through these conservation
efforts over the period 1981-89 was over 70 million tce. This savings momentum has been
maintained in the early 1990s, so that today, an extra 2 million tce are saved every year,
representing a saving of about 20 million tce per year over the 1980 energy consumption
level.  To put these figures in perspective, it should be noted that the total energy
consumption today in Sichuan amounts to 80 million tce in industrial and urban areas and
20 million tce in rural areas, making a total of about 100 million tce per year.
5.            At the beginning of this period, there was a rapid and significant decline in
natural gas availability in the Province, with production dropping from 6.4 billion cubic
meters per year to 5.2 cubic meters per year. To meet this challenge, (i) salt boilers in
the Province were converted to use coal as the heating medium instead of natural gas and
(ii) bitumen was substituted for natural gas in the production of carbon black, an essential
ingredient in the manufacture of rubber. Altogether, an annual saving of about 1.5 billion
cubic meters of natural gas were obtained by this fuel switching.
1/    In many cases, these projects had concomitant benefits, including capacity expansion and product
quality improvement.



- 82 -                         ANNEX 3.3
Subsectoral Energ) Savings
6.           There are three principal energy-consuming industrial subsectors in Sichuan
Province-Chemicals (including fertilizers), Metallurgy and Machine Building. Together
they account for more than half of total industrial energy consumption. It is therefore
natural that a significant proportion of energy conservation activities should have been
focussed on these subsectors.
(a)    Chemical Industry. The Chemical Industry consumes about 40 percent of
industrial energy consumption. A large part of this is as feedstock for
fertilizer production. About 50 percent of natural gas consumed is for
fertilizer production, with about 10 percent being utilized for the
manufacture of other chemicals. Since 1980 the Chemical industry has
shown impressive savings in energy usage, as the following table shows:
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER Y 10,000 OF OuTPtrr
OF CHEMICAL INDusrRY
Year                       tce
1980                      12.68
1984                      10.43
1985                      9.67
1989                      8.97
1991                       8.39
1992                      8.28
1995 (Estimate)           7.00
2000 (Estimate)           <6.00
(b)   Metallurgy. In 1992, the metallurgical sector consumed about 8 million
tce, which was made up of 6 million tons of coal, about 5 TWh of
electricity, 40,000 tons of petroleum products, and 660 million cubic meters
of natural gas, representing about 11 percent of natural gas utilized in the
Province. The main areas where energy conservation efforts have been
successful have been in the BOF steel making furnaces, and in the electrical
steel furnaces, which were originally heated by alternating current instead
of the more energy efficient direct current.  As a result, the industrial
energy consumption per Y 10,000 of output has been reduced from 12.0 in
1980 to 7.34 in 1992, a reduction of almost 40 percent.
(c)    Machine Building.  The Sichuan Machine Building Industry (which
includes the electronics industry) consists of about 300 enterprises.



- 83-                         ANNEX 3.3
Together, they consume about 1 million tce of energy, of which 23 percent
is in the form of coal and oil, 37 percent is in the form of electric power
and 40 percent as natural gas, representing some 5 percent of the natural gas
consumed in the Province.  The principal uses of direct energy in the
subsector are for driving prime movers and heating furnaces and kilns.
Natural gas is used by some 60 enterprises, mainly for process preheating.
There have been two main phases of activity in the field of energy
conservation:
(i) Phase I (from 1982-88), when the emphasis was on improvements
in housekeeping, and achieved a reduction of 20-25 percent in
energy consumption; and
(ii) Phase II (from 1989 onwards), when the emphasis switched to
energy-saving process modifications, which have so far achieved a
further 15 percent energy savings. At the beginning of this phase,
most of the subsector's equipment was almost 40 years old and was
consequently energy intensive. In the course of this phase of the
energy conservation program, modifications included improved
furnace insulation, modernized combustion nozzle technology, and
changes in furnace configuration. In order to reduce consumption
of natural gas, many gas fired furnaces were converted to coal fired
units.  In addition, power consumption was reduced by  the
installation of less power intensive equipment such as transformers,
electric motors and fans.
As a result of the activities in these two phases, the Subsector's IEC
per Y 10,000 has been reduced from 4.5 tce in 1980 to 1.0 tce in 1992.
Potential Savings from Energy Conservation in the Future
7.          A common pattern in energy savings over time has been observed in many
countries which have undertaken energy conservation programs. In the first phase, there
is an initial buildup when organizational problems are overcome, surveys carried out and
information disseminated. In a second phase, high energy savings are obtained when
housekeeping measures are introduced and the obvious retrofitting projects (requiring low
capital investment and short implementation times) are identified. In a third phase, more
complex and higher capital cost projects (often requiring process changes) are identified
and implemented. Thus, after an initial buildup, the annual incremental savings reach a
peak and then begin to decline, although, of course, the absolute level of energy savings
continues to increase from year to year.



- 84-                           ANNEX 3.3
8.           In the industrial sector, the greatest potential savings are likely to continue
to be found in the three energy intensive subsectors-chemicals (including fertilizers),
metallurgy and machine building.
(a)    Chemicals and Fertilizers. Intensive studies have been carried out in the
fertilizer sector to achieve greater energy savings. Such savings are critical
to the economics of production of nitrogenous fertilizers, since natural gas
is used not only as an energy source but forms the principal raw material
for ammonia and urea. Investment programs which are currently being
developed are estimated to lead to savings in the consumption of natural gas
of 15-25 percent in medium and large scale production units and 25-
30 percent on the smaller units.
The electrolysis of sodium chloride brines to produce caustic soda and
chlorine is an important operation in the Sichuan Basic Chemicals industry.
Some of the electrolysis cells have already been modified to reduce
electricity consumption, and the process of modernization will be continued
in the future.  Modernization can be expected to reduce the power
requirements per ton of caustic soda from 2,700 kWh to 1,900-2,000 kWh,
a saving of up to 30 percent.
(b)    Metallurgy.   The trend to convert the electric steel furnaces from
alternating current supply to direct current supply will be continued,
resulting in further significant reductions in power consumption in the
subsector.
(c)    Machine Building. Future plans for energy conservation in this subsector
are likely to be concentrated on the Second Sichuan Heavy Machine
Building Works which is the largest energy consumer in the industry, and
one of the largest machine building complexes in Asia.  In 1992 it
consumed 170,000 tce, including 70,000 million cubic meters of natural
gas. Preliminary estimates indicate that some 40 percent of current energy
consumption could be cut by appropriate energy conservation investments
and programs (e.g., redesign of furnaces and kilns for process preheating).
It is tentatively estimated that the cost of these programs could amount to
Y 300 million, of which $20 million would be the foreign exchange cost.
foreign exchange cost.
(d)    Residential.   A vigorous program  to indoctrinate the public in energy
conservation awareness is to be pursued.  This will include a special
"Energy Conservation Week", encouragement of the marketing of energy
saving domestic appliances, and conversion to natural gas use of coal- and
briquette-fired cooking stoves and boilers, in order to improve energy
efficiency and to reduce pollution.



- 85 -                         ANNEX 3.3
Future Role of Government Energy Conservation Institutions
9.           As the country's program  of economic reform  develops, many of the
functions currently carried out by government institutions in the field of energv
conservation will be superseded by the interplay of market forces. The Provincial Planning
CoMTnission has already begun to examine what would be the appropriate role for these
institutions to play under these circumstances.  The following list of items represent
preliminary thoughts which could usefully be subject to further examination. Most of these
activities would best be performed through the Energy Conservation Service Centers at
different levels.
(a)   Initiation and monitoring of projects in the field of renewable energy.
(b)   Providing guidance to enterprise managements and government officials in
determining reasonable energy conservation targets.
(c)    Exercising influence on manufacturers to phase out the product of energy
inefficient equipment.
(d)   Providing low interest loans for pilot and demonstration projects in the field
of energy conservation.
(e)    Leasing energy saving equipment and energy monitoring instrumentation.



- 86-                          ANNEX 5 1
GAS FIELD DEVELOPMENT AND
REHABILITATION SUBCOMPONENT
A. SICHUAN NATURAL GAS UPSTREMA  SECTOR
1.          Geological Summary. The Sichuan Basin, located in the eastern part of
Sichuan province, covers a sedimentary area of about 180,000 km2. It is surrounded by
high mountains composed of Paleozoic and Proterozoic formations. The remainder of the
basin consists of low mountains and hills with a relief of about 300 to 500 m with outcrops
of Jurassic and Cretaceous formations. The stratigraphic sequence in the basin consists of
relatively thick (0.8 to 11 km) sedimentary sequence from the Precambrian (Sinian)
crystalline basement through the Quatemary system.  Structurally, the basin may be
divided into four major parts: (a) the Central High (an uplifted zone with about 6 km of
sediments in the central part of the basin), (b) the Southeast Depression (a folded zone with
about 9 km of sediments), (c) the Western Depression (a depression zone with about 11
km of sediments), and (d) the Southwest fold-Belt (a series of southwest trending
anticlines).  Most of the hydrocarbon (essentially natural gas) bearing formations
encountered are carbonates (limestones and dolomites located generally below the Lower
and Middle Triassic intervals). Very limited quantities of oil have been found in some of
the Jurassic sandstone formations in the north central part of the basin.
2.           Hydrocarbons in general, and natural gas in particular, in Sichuan are found
in sediments of Sinian, Carboniferous, Permian and Triassic age.   The Sinian
(Precambrian) consists mainly of thick dolomites, up to 650-m thick, with a permeability
consisting largely of fractures restricted to the crestal portions of structures. The
Carboniferous, which is about 2,000-m thick, consists mainly of dolomites and limestones
and has much better developed fractures and pores. The Carboniferous reservoirs appear
to be limited to the eastern part of the basin which has been so far the most prospective
area. The Permian Yangsin limestone (400 to 500 m in thickness) is widely distributed
throughout the basin and is generally quite tight.  Large gas reservoirs have been
encountered in the Permian where the formation has been fractured. Multiple reservoirs
generally have separate gas-water contacts and production is determined by degree of
fracturing. Finally, the Triassic rocks, more than 1,000-m thick, consist of dolomites,
limestones, anhydrites and shales and are widely distributed throughout the basin.
Production from the Triassic is slightly better than the underlying formations but remains
highly dependent on fracture development.
3.           Structurally, all of the gas fields addressed by this project appear to be
closely related to an arcuate thrust fault zone which strikes north-south in the southem
portion and nearly east-west in the northern portion of the zone. The age of the faulting
and hence, the structures, would appear to be quite young by virtue of the shallow
deformation as evident on the seismic sections as well as suggested by the rather high



- 87-                          ANNEX 5.1
topographic relief associated with crestal positions of the structures.  As such, the
migration of the gas probably occurred fairly recently, hence one would expect the smallest
closures, even if located well down the flanks of the structures, to be productive. Gas
accumulations have been found in both the hanging wall and foot-wall positions on the
structures.
Reserves, Production and Prospects
4.           Systematic oil and gas exploration and development started in Sichuan in the
1950s. Most of the discoveries were natural gas with practically no oil. Since then, more
than 300 surface structures have been identified, of which, some 83 commercial gas fields
have been confirmed. Total proven and probable reserves are estimated at 400 bcm and
140 bcm, respectively, of which more than one half is in the eastern part of the basin.
Cumulative production reached about 120 bcm in 1992. Annual delivery rate increased
progressively over the years to reach about 6.0 bcm (17 mmcm/day) in 1980, after which
it declined by about 15 percent during the 1980-85 period. To counter the decline, SPA
stepped up its exploration activities and carried out several field rehabilitation programs.
Bank support has included the recently completed Weiyuan Gas Field Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2580-CHA). The exploration efforts have been successful in increasing the
basin's resource base by more than 150 bcm of proven reserves and has identified several
geological prospects, that could not be fully developed, due to the lack adequate equipment
and materials. The field rehabilitation programs and the development of some of the newly
discovered fields enabled SPA to arrest the decline and slightly increase its production,
which reached about 6.4 bcm in 1992 (18 mmcm/day). The production is expected to
continue increasing slightly, to reach about 6.7 bcm in 1995, after which it would again
start declining, by about 10 percent a year, unless some of the major fields recently
discovered are developed.
5.           Suboptimal Recovery. The production decline experienced in the mid-
1980s, while less than one half of the proven reserves was produced, is an indication of
poor gas recovery from the field reservoirs. The problem is generally associated with
inadequate development schemes consisting of a limited number of wells by which no
production plateau can be achieved. This is often caused by insufficient investment
programs, which characterize several of SPA's gas fields. These fields have been operated
for years under suboptimal development schemes, with a limited number of wells. To
meet an ever increasing gas demand, the wells have been produced at excessive flow rates,
which has caused in many cases, severe water influx, with a subsequent substantial
production decline, while the reserve recovery is as low as 40 to 50 percent. In similar
fields developed under optimum schemes, such a decline would normally start when the
reserve recovery reaches 70 to 80 percent. Increasing the recovery level now, would be
much costlier than under an optimum development scheme. In fields with very active
water drives, substantial quantities of gas may be irremediably lost into the reservoirs.
This has been the case for the Weiyuan field, where the reservoir has been completely
flooded by formation water, causing the production to fall considerably, while only about
13 bcm of gas has been recovered out of an estimated proven reserves of 40 bcm. The
problem could be worse for several of the newly discovered fields, where reservoir depth,
geological complexity and H2S content are much greater than in the older fields, and



- 88 -                          ANNEX 5.1
where, due to the lack of financial resources, only few appraisal and delineation wells have
been drilled.
6.           Inadequate Gas Conservation. The exploitation of gas fields for several
years under suboptimal development schemes, becomes a serious gas conservation problem
at the field level. In this regard, a major lesson learned from the development of the
Weiyuan gas field is that, substantial quantities of gas have been irremediably lost into the
reservoir, due to overproduction and subsequent reservoir flooding. As mentioned earlier,
Weiyuan gas field development was not optimized. The field was drilled over several
years, at a low pace, following a large well spacing pattern, and the wells put on
production at their maximum flow rate as soon as completed. As the Bank financed study
concluded, the reservoir has been completely flooded, which renders it highly unlikely that
it can be economically rehabilitated, although only about 30 percent of the gas has been
recovered.  All resuscitation pilots have resulted in a continuously increasing water
production and very little gas. While gas reservoir damage to this extent is rare, in the
case of Weiyuan, the major cause can be associated with inadequate field development and
production schemes, particularly: (a) excessive well flow rates which affected the ultimate
recovery; (b) excessive water-gas ratio from the beginning of the field production; and
(c) inappropriate well completion techniques as well as a limited number of wells on a
large spacing grid by which no production plateau could be achieved. This production
technique, which appears to be driven by high production targets, is still being applied in
several gas fields. Although, all gas reservoir aquifer properties are not similar to the
Weiyuan field reservoir, the technique entails, nevertheless, a substantial loss of gas, as
generally reflected by the low gas recovery in most of the Sichuan gas fields.
7.           Lack of Gas Treatment Capacity. SPA's gas contains significant quantities
of H2S, which is extremely corrosive. Of the 6.4 bcm produced in 1992, about 6 bcm
contained 0.001 to 6.5 percent of H2S. SPA owns and operates 8 desulfurization plants
with a total design capacity of about 5.6 bcm/yr. Of these plants, 5, with a total design
capacity of about 4 bcm/yr, are operated between 10 percent and 70 percent of their
capacity. Of the 5 plants, 4, built between 1966 and 1973, require complete refurbishing.
Due to the lack of foreign exchange, SPA could not adequately maintain these plants, much
less refurbish the old ones and add new capacity to minimize the growing shortage in gas
treatment. As a result, SPA is able to adequately treat only 3.5 to 4 bcm/yr. Remaining
sour gas is mixed with "sweet" gas, to lower its percentage of H2S content, before entering
the transmission and distribution systems. By mixing the 2 types of gas, SPA obtains an
H,S content varying between 200 and 500 mg. per cu.m. of gas compared to 20 to 25 mg.
per cu.m. recommnended by the international gas industry.
8.           The H2S contained in the gas becomes highly corrosive in the presence of
water as can be observed in SPA's gas transmission and distribution systems and other
surface facilities, which are highly corroded. SPA produces a large quantity of formation
water with the gas from the field reservoirs. The bulk of this water should normally be
removed at the wellhead level before the gas is completely dehydrated in specially
conceived plants. In SPA's gas fields, most of the wellhead primary water separation
stations are old and inefficient. Thus, significant quantities of water are left in the gas,
_ ~ ~ ~ -   - - -   - - -



-89 -                            ANNEX 5.1
hampering the gas treatment operations and overloading the field gathering lines. With
regard to dehydration, most of the gas produced in the south and southeast districts, about
one third of SPA's total production, is not dehydrated at all because of the lack of surface
facilities. In the other districts, the dehydration is also inadequate due to poor performance
of existing facilities, which are old and lack the necessary spare parts. Several of these
facilities, originally designed for lower water volumes, require complete refurbishing. As
a result, the quantity of water which is carried out with the gas in the transmission and
distribution system is 10 to 15 times greater than levels recommended by the industry.
The water also formns slugs of acidic solutions, which are extremely corrosive restricting
the flow of gas in many parts of the transmission and distribution network and gas
treatment plants.
9.           Inadequate Treatment and Disposal of Produced Formation Water.
Most of the reservoirs in the Sichuan gas field reservoirs contain substantial quantities of
water (formation water) underlying the gas (water drive reservoirs), often in the form of
thick water bearing intervals. To avoid or minimize water production, the number,
spacing and deliverability of the production wells should normally be carefully determined.
High gas flow rates often result in water influx, which is also called water coning. Once
the coning has occurred, reduction in gas production rates would not necessarily eliminate
the water influx, which often continues to increase to the point where the wells have to be
shut-in and abandoned. This phenomenon has apparently affected a number of the Sichuan
gas fields, particularly those that have been produced with a limited number of wells.
About 2 million tons of formation water has been produced in 1993, most of which comes
in the form of streams with the gas. As gas fields mature, the quantity of water increases
substantially for the last few years. The water is then removed at the wellhead level
through primary separation. On average, 80 percent of produced water is disposed of
through subsurface injection into porous formations. The remaining water is saline, often
salt-saturated and generally contains substantial quantities of other chlorides, sulfur,
hydrocarbons, and heavy metal ions, which are harmtful (corrosive) to the injection
equipment. This water, therefore, is treated along with some well drilling, work-over and
stimulation liquid wastes in earthen pits and, occasionally, in tanks built above-ground
before subsurface injection or discharge into rivers and off-site natural drainage. Most of
the existing water treatment facilities were developed a number of years ago when
production of fornation water was lower than now. As a result, the treatment, which is
limited to gravity settlement of particles and addition of some chemicals, is inefficient.
A limited quantity of the saline water is also processed by the local industry for extraction
of salts (sodium chloride/NaCl, and potassium chloride/KCI).
10.           Not all subsurface injection is carried out through deep off-site disposal
wells. Large quantities of formation water are injected in depleted gas reservoirs through
old gas wells.  In one area (Zigong), the water is injected into fractured carbonate
formations at a depth of about 300 m. Although reportedly these formations (of Triassic
age) do not contain groundwater aquifers, injecting formation water at a such shallow
depth, without treatment such as addition of corrosion inhibitors, could possibly become
a source of long-term contamination of shallower groundwater zones through fluid
migration and channelling behind well casings. SPA is aware of such a risk, hence efforts



- 90-                           ANNEX 5.1
have been made over recent years to develop a better subsurface injection scheme.
However, the lack of necessary equipment and financial resources compounded with the
overall external pressure for more gas delivery, have prevented SPA from drilling deep
off-site disposal wells. Monitoring movement of injected fluids and integrity of injector
wells and old wells that intersect the injection zones is not effectively carried out due to
the lack of equipment. Similarly, the chemical treatment is inadequate.
Other Operational Problems in Sichuan
11.          The most significant operational problems constraining SPA's upstream
activities are associated with:  (a) use of inadequate equipment to produce sour gas;
(b) insufficient formation water removal and gas dehydration capacity; (c) low well
productivity; (d) inadequate field drilling and production equipment; (e) insufficient seismic
data to properly locate development wells; and (f) lack of coordination and overlapping
responsibilities particularly between the operating enterprises.
12.          To effectively address these problems, SPA would need to: (a) introduce
appropriate seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment; (b) introduce
improved well drilling and completion equipment and materials for operating in severe
environments of H2S, CO2, high pressure and high temperature; (c) build the necessary
field gas treatment facilities to bring the project's incremental gas production to pipeline
specifications, (particularly adequate gas desulfurization, wellhead gas water primary
separation, and gas dehydration); (d) adopt optimum field development techniques before
bringing fields on production, consisting of conclusive reservoir delineation and appraisal
and a well advanced initial development phase with the aim of maximizing the ultimate gas
recovery; (e) introduce adequate equipment and materials to enhance gas well productivity,
particularly with regard to high pressure hydraulic fracturing of tight gas reservoirs and
horizontal drilling; (f) rehabilitate some of existing drilling rigs with provision for adequate
well materials including equipment which would allow multiwell pad drilling, thus
minimizing the use of land particularly in highly cultivated areas; (g) upgrade seismic data
acquisition, processing and interpretation, reducing the risks of drilling dry or poor
productivity development wells; (h) acquire the necessary seismic data for more reliable
selection of well locations and use as a field development tool; and (i) strengthen
management and field operational technical and institutional capability through specialized
technical assistance covering all aspects of the gas sector activity and extensive training.
13.          Lack of Dehydration Capacity. In addition to formation water, Sichuan
natural gas generally contains a high level of solution water in a form of gaseous mixture
and vapor. This type of water condenses into liquid as the gas is cooled from the high
reservoir temperature to the cooler ground surface temperature. Its inadequate removal
at the wellhead level, which is the case in several of SPA's fields, results in serious
operational problems. The water seriously overloads the gathering lines and hampers
follow-up gas treatment operations such as desulfurization, transmission and distribution.
Removal of this water or water vapor from the gas, also called dehydration, is essential
for protecting equipment and surface facilities of SPA as well as of the consumers. The
industry has developed three dehydration methods, which are used worldwide. Depending



-91 -                           ANNEX 5.1
on the gas composition, these involve the use of either a liquid desiccant, solid desiccant,
or refrigeration in specially conceived plants located in the fields before the gas
transmission and distribution network. Sichuan gas is generally dehydrated using the liquid
desiccant with a concentrated solution of trimethylene glycol.
14.          SPA fields are not equipped with sufficient and efficient gas dehydration
facilities; existing facilities are old and lack the necessary spare parts.  Some of the
facilities have suffered severe corrosion problems and could be the source of operational
hazards if they are not overhauled in the near future. Most plants are not equipped with
adequate monitoring of gas dehydration quality and plant configuration and operations are
often not appropriate for Sichuan gas. Glycol concentration is generally less than the
design of the plants suggesting that excessive water is being carried out in sales gas.
Furthermore, most of the natural gas produced in the south and southwest districts, about
one third of SPA's total production, is not dehydrated at all due to the lack of facilities.
Reportedly, only glycol is being injected into gathering lines at the well sites. While this
may remove some water, it is still insufficient and the gas contains an excessive level of
water vapor. As a result, significant quantities of water overload the gas transmission and
distribution system, condensing into liquid and forming slugs of water restricting the flow
of gas . The problem is further exacerbated by the presence of H2S, which forms acidic
solutions, further accelerating corrosion. This is noticeable in most of the field surface
facilities as well as in the transmission and distribution system, all of which now requires
extensive repairs and maintenance.
15.          Inadequate Seismic Coverage.  Although much of the basin has been
covered by a fairly detailed seismic grid, data quality of some parts of the basin has been
poor. Highly fractured fornations, particularly in crestal areas of the gas fields, appear
to distort seismic signal, resulting in unreliable data interpretation. In addition, extremely
difficult terrain has limited the coverage of several potential areas, particularly on the
flanks of structures. This problem has been frequently encountered in East Sichuan,
including the fields to be developed under the proposed project, where only dip lines have
been surveyed. Because of this, the seismic interpretation is dependent on line-to-line
correlations and thus is unreliable. As a result, the number.of non productive development
wells has been relatively high. New structures and some appraisal wells are drilled using
minimum  seismic data.  Although present data interpretation might suggest favorable
structural configurations, additional detailed seismic would conceivably optimize the field
development drilling program. Fields with thinning gas reservoirs in structurally high
positions, such as Wubaiti, Mingda and Woxinshuang, have not been accurately mapped
due to poor seismic quality and inadequate coverage.
16.          Inadequate Drilling and Production Equipment. SPA drills 100 to 105
wells per year, of which 70 percent are development and appraisal with the remaining,
exploration. Drilling activity consumes about 60 percent of SPA's total upstream budget.
To drill and service its wells, SPA owns and operates 87 drilling and work-over rigs with
a drilling depth capacity varying from 4,000 to 6,000 meters. Compared to international
standards, SPA's drilling performance is low with a drilling efficiency about one-third less
than it should be. One of the main reasons is that rig design, concept and equipment are



-92-                             ANNEX 5.1
no longer adequate for current drilling conditions (increasing depth with hard and fractured
forrnations, H2S, CO2 and high pressure). The rig fleet consists of about two-thirds
Chinese and one-third Rumanian manufacture. Most of the rigs are old and worn out
resulting in about 30 percent of the drilling time being devoted to rig repairs. Mechanical
and hydraulic power availability is insufficient causing excessive rig breakdowns. Solids
control equipment on most of the rigs is inefficient leading to substantial reservoir
formation damage, which is one of the main causes of the low well productivity. All of
this leads to lengthy drilling time, which in turn causes excessive hole enlargement,
invasion of gas-bearing formations by large volumes of drilling fluid losses, and poor
casing cement bonding, all of which contribute to an overall poor quality well.
17.          With regard to production equipment, the size of tubing being used by SPA
in wells with high flow rates could be a problem affecting not only the well productivity
but also overall gas recovery. SPA produces most of its well through a 2-7/8 inch size
tubing, which is rather small. A review of wells with flow rates higher than 0.30 mcm
per day of gas shows an excessive wellhead flowing pressure, which is inconsistent with
the reservoir characteristics and production parameters. This generates high back pressures
within the reservoir and excessive gas flow velocities. Back pressures accelerate the decline
of well flow rates over the reservoir life contributing to the low productivity of the wells
and to a reduced ultimate gas recovery. High velocities of gas flow develop erosion
problems for the tubing, wellheads and surface facilities. Another problem associated with
the tubulars being used by SPA is the casing policy. In this respect, SPA's current casing
program is based on a minimum engineering design criteria with the view of using as little
tubulars as possible. While the formula is acceptable for shallow fields with homogeneous
and well known geology, its application for Sichuan gas fields and particularly in East
District, has proved to be highly detrimental to the overall well quality and subsequently,
to the well productive life. Given the complexity of the geology of SPA's fields, the high
pressure deep wells require a revised casing design with introduction of some high grade
casing. Other inadequacies in production equipment relate to safety aspects of the wells.
In this regard, wellheads are not equipped with remotely operated master valves. Similarly,
there are no subsurface safety valves in the wells. These valves are standard equipment for
gas fields, particularly those containing H2S.
18.          Lack of Coordination.  The field activities are carried out by various
operating enterprises of SPA. These enterprises are organized on a functional basis and
operate generally in a safe and workmanlike manner but appear too compartmentalized.
This makes field operational coordination difficult to establish. The overall level of
communications between field operational sites and enterprises is poor and the response
time is reportedly very slow when special field operations are needed. For example, well
completion and production testing which determine the drilling of offset wells, are
excessively delayed due to the lack of readiness of the relevant enterprises. As a result, the
well drilling proceeds without taking full advantage of recent drilling results. Variations
and lack of integration of field operational practices within the different enterprises seem
also to affect field coordination and more importantly hamper the overall operational
perforrnance. In this regard, some of the enterprises continue to apply practices developed
by SPA many years ago during the initial stage of the field development while few others



-93 -                          ANNEX 5.1
have successfu]ly revised them in light of recent improvements in technology. In general,
improvements have been noticeable in areas where foreign specialized assistance has been
used such as in electric logging, low pressure reservoir stimulation and to some extent in
seismic. Due to the lack of resources, however, SPA has not been able to benefit from the
new technology. For example, contrary to many oil and gas operating companies, for
selection of infill well locations, SPA does not use seismic to full advantage, which has
proved to be highly reliable technique for reducing the risk of drilling non productive wells
in the development of known fields.
B. THE PROPOSED UPSTREAM COMPONEN"TS
19.         Components' Objectives. The proposed upstream components constitute
a portion of SPA's Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plan (1990-2000) investment program.
They would assist SPA in delaying the anticipated production decline, increasing gas
deliveries and addressing current major operational problems, particularly those associated
with field production optimization and subsequent long-termn gas conservation at the field
level and with overall gas purification. They consist of: (a) development of 14 gas fields
in East Sichuan and rehabilitation of about 190 existing potential wells in East and Central
Sichuan. Field development and well rehabilitation are expected to yield a total gas
production of about 70 bcm to be produced at an average of 3.4 bcm/yr from 1996 to 2015
assuming a project implementation start-up in 1994. This would increase SPA's gas
production from the current level of about 6.7 bcm/year to about 8 bcm/year in the year
2000.  This production level would be sustained for 6 to 7 years after 2000;
(b) introduction of modem gas production technology which would improve the field
productivity (by 10 to 30 percent), and substantially enhance the overall gas recovery (to
about 70 to 75 percent), would become an important gas conservation measure at the field
level; and (c) enhancement of field environment and safety through adequate purification
(dehydration and desulfurization) of sour gas, and efficient treatment and disposal of waters
produced from gas reservoirs.
20.          Description of the Upstream Components. The upstream components to
be financed under the proposed project constitute about 40 percent of SPA's 1993-2000
investment program, which is part of the Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plan (1991-2000) and
about 70 percent of SPA's East District Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plan investment
program. These components consist of:
(a)    Seismic Survey. Acquisition of about 8,800 line-km of seismic, including
data processing and interpretation in the field to be developed under the
project;
(b)   Field Development. Development of proven gas reserves in 14 selected gas
fields in East Sichuan through: (i) drilling of about 100 infill development
wells; and (ii) construction of surface facilities consisting of gas gathering
systems, gas dehydration and desulfurization plants;



- 94 -                         ANNEX 5.1
(c)   Well Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of old gas wells, about 90 in East
Sichuan and 100 in Central Sichuan, through work-over, reservoir
stimulation and well recompletion techniques;
(d)   Improvement of Field Environmental Management.  Development of
formation water injection schemes to be supplemented by construction of
water an other liquid waste treatment facilities and installation of mobile
solid waste process units; and
(e)   Consultancy  and  Training.   Institution building through  technical
assistance and training in modern petroleum technology and management.
21.          Seismic Survey. The seismic surveys to be carried out under the proposed
project would delineate the extent of the gas fields as well as minimize the risks of drilling
dry development wells as a result of poorly chosen well locations. To achieve these
objectives, the data quality requires substantial improvement through advanced data
acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment and technology. The surveys would
consist of about: (a) 3,570 line-km of infill seismic to be acquired as early as possible
during the project start-up phase in order to precede the development drilling; (b) 2,550
line-km of appraisal seismic, to be acquired during the 1995 and 1996 field seasons to
define the field boundaries, both down the flanks and also along the strike of the fields;
and (c) 2,680 line-kln of extension seismic, to be acquired during the 1997 and 1998 field
seasons to delineate structural culminations adjacent to the project's fields. The new
seismic would enable SPA to achieve a fairly dense reliable coverage, which would
eliminate some of the existing ambiguities associated with the interpretation of data on
complex faulted and fractured structures, where any proved closure could be gas bearing.
A limited amount of high quality seismic would also be used, on a trial basis, to determine
the viability of direct hydrocarbon indicators, such as bright and flat spots.  These
indicators may be indicative of less dense formations due to possible increased porosity and
gas-filled pore spaces.  These techniques have proved to be successful in fields with
subsurface geology similar to the Sichuan gas fields. The seismic coverage of the project's
fields would be as follows: Wubaiti 2,200 line-km, Fengjiawan 1,700 krn, Mingda 800 km,
Tanmuchang 700 kmn, Shuangjiaba 700 km, Yunhegzai 600 km, Teishan 570 km,
Shaguanping 450 km, Wanshunchang and Longtou 430 km, Mobanchang 420 kmn, and
Woxinshuang 230 km. The seismic program, including supply of 5 telemetry acquisition
systems and 2 processing and interpretation systems has been estimated at US $38.6
Million equivalent.
22.          Field Development. SPA's operation includes about 83 producing gas fields
with a total proven and probable reserves presently estimated at about 400 bcm and 140
bcm respectively. Twenty-two fields are located in East Sichuan District, spread over an
area of about 50,000 km2, with total proven and probable reserves presently estimated at
about 200 bcm and 94 bcm, respectively. Geological and geophysical work carried out
over recent years indicates that the basin's gas resource base could be much larger than
now projected, particularly in East Sichuan where about 80 potential structures have not
yet been fully evaluated.  However, these structures are in deep complex geological



-95-                          ANNEX 5.1
formations where drilling and production conditions are becoming increasingly more
difficult and costly. Exploring and developing these structures would require enormous
incremental investments and would entail exploration related risks. In this regard, SPA
would seek government approval for opening up concessions for direct foreign investment.
The project will include technical assistance to SPA for petroleum development promotion
to potential international investors. The draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 5.4
23.   -     The proposed gas development program was designed as a result of a gas
reserve assessment followed by a field-by-field evaluation; the above study was carried out
with the assistance of TCC-financed international consultants. A program of geological
and geophysical studies will be followed by a program of development and extension
drilling. This program will consist of drilling about 100 development wells in 14 fields
selected on the basis of their gas potential. These fields, which are located in East Sichuan
(see Map IBRD No. 25138), are Wubaiti with 37 wells, Mingda with 7, Tieshan 2,
Yunhenzai 5, Shuangjiaba 6, Fuchengzai 1, Tanmuchang 4, Shaguanping 8, Wanshunchang
2, Longtou 7, Mopanchang 6, Gaofenchang 6, Woxinshuang 5, and Fengjiawan 4. Their
original proven and probable reserves have been estimated, by the aforementioned
independent reserve assessment study, at about 184 bcm and 10 bcm respectively, of which
about 15 bcm has been produced. Based on a projected 80 percent rate of recovery, their
current proven recoverable reserves are estimated at about 135 bcm. The fields have been
discovered over the last 10 years, except one (Woxinshuang), which has been producing
for about 30 years with substantial remaining reserves.  There are five other fields
(Shaguanping, Wanshunchang, Longtou, Shuangjiaba and Fuchengzai) that have been
producing since they have been put on stream during the period of 1985-90. To be put on
production, the remaining fields require production wells and wellhead connection
facilities, which will be provided under the proposed project. Some of the recent appraisal
drilling results have indicated that the Wubaiti field, for example, would be much larger
than previously thought, proven and probable reserves estimated at 33 bcm and lObcm
respectively. These estimates are expected to increase as more is known about the extent
of the field as a result of project implementation.
24.          About two thirds of the proposed drilling program, would be infill
production wells and the remaining would be development and extension production wells.
To ensure higher productivity, the wells would be located following an optimum spacing
pattem and on the basis of field reservoir perforrmance and the most recent drilling,
geological and geophysical data. The wells would be drilled, stimulated and completed
using modern techniques, equipment and materials. Well completion would involve
bottom-hole assemblies including packers. Drilling locations that might fall-near populated
areas and cultivated land would be grouped and directionally drilled from multiwell pads.
This cluster drilling is expected to reduce substantially the use of land, the risks of any
environmental degradation, which might be associated with drilling wastes and the overall
field development cost. The total incremental gas production to be achieved from the
proposed field development component would be 58 bcm at an estimated cost of
$394.6 million equivalent.



- 96-                          ANNEX 5 1
25.          Well Rehabilitation.  This program  consists of restoring production in
wells, which have ceased producing or their flow rates have declined considerably, due to
hole mechanical problems or changes in reservoir characteristics. The bulk of the wells
to be rehabilitated under the proposed project, appears to have been affected by the lack
of reservoir permeability and subsequent decline in bore-hole gas drainage. Corrosion of
bottom-hole equipment and sand influx have also caused some wells to cease production.
The 90 East Sichuan wells have been selected from more than 15 gas fields, in areas with
substantial recoverable reserves and 100 Central Sichuan wells are within Moxi and
Bajiaochang field with 25 bcm and 20 bcm of proven reserves respectively. A limited
quantity of gas has been produced from Moxi and no production has started yet in
Bajiaochang. The well rehabilitation work program would consist of a detailed technical
review of SPA's previous stimulation and well completion techniques. Based on the
review results, field pilots involving propped and fracture acidizing treatments would be
carried out with the objectives of containing the fractures within the targeted interval
(extended vertical fractures generally lead to serious problems of water influx) and
selecting adequate proppants and fracturing liquids. New well recompletion design,
including permanent production packers and perforating techniques, would also be field
tested and used. One or two wells would be selected in Central Sichuan fields for side-
tracking (horizontal well), which could improve the well productivity. Side-tracking could
be based on a limited seismic survey to identify gas-filled high porosity zones by use of
hydrocarbon indicators. Because of the uncertainty about the magnitude of problems
associated with idle wells, work-over cost estimates and production to be gained are
difficult to predict. However, based on SPA's previous experience and taking into account
the new equipment and technology to be used, the proposed well rehabilitation program
is expected to yield about 5 bcm and 7 bcm of gas in East and Central Sichuan respectively
along with about 75,000 tons of condensate from Bajiaochang field at an estimated total
cost of about $135.2 million equivalent.
26.          Improvement of Formation Water Injection Scheme.  In addition to
displacing a significant quantity of coal, which would otherwise worsen the air quality in
Sichuan, as already indicated in the project's environmental impact assessment, the
proposed project would also assist SPA in its efforts to develop an appropriate scheme to
dispose of its huge quantities of produced formation water and other liquid and solid wastes
in a proper manner. The scheme would first be limited to the project's fields and then
extended by SPA, on its own, to other gas producing areas in Sichuan. It would consist
of developing effective subsurface injection programs for forrnation water and other liquid
wastes. A large part of the scheme would be carried out in selected areas of the fields to
be rehabilitated as no formation water is expected to be produced in the fields to be
developed under the project in the near future. As these fields are new and are not yet in
production, their development would be designed following appropriate reservoir
management techniques by which no influx of formation water would be expected until
after 12 to 15 years from now. Even then, water influx would be much less than what has
been experienced by SPA in the past. However, some of the fields would be provided
with facilities of a limited capacity, which can first be used for disposal of well drilling
and stimulation waste waters and then increased later if required.



- 97 -                         AN'NEX 51
27.          The scheme's subsurface injection program would consist of identifying deep
geological formations, in off-site locations nearby the fields where large capacity wells
would be drilled and adequately equipped for disposal of significant quantities of formation
water and other liquid wastes. Selected injection formations should be of a low pressure
to avoid vertical fractures through which disposed liquid could channel to other horizons.
The wells would be drilled away from and deeper than any known hydrocarbon bearing
intervals to ensure that injected water would not move into any previously or currently gas
producing formations. Injection zones would be tested and selected based on their capacity
to hold large quantities of waste liquids. Groundwater aquifers intersected by disposal
wells would be isolated by 2 and possibly 3 casings adequately cemented and periodically
checked. Bottom hole section casing would be at least 60-m deeper than the lowermost
known aquifer and adequately sealed by cement to avoid any waste water channelling
upward behind the casings. No injection would be carried out through multiple casings.
The wells would be adequately equipped and field operators provided with the best
practical technology to carry out continuous monitoring of injected waste water and well
integrity. Well drilling, work-over and stimulation waste water would also be disposed of
through subsurface injection.  Hazardous liquids, such as drilling, work-over and
stimulation fluids, would be treated before injection to avoid deterioration (corrosion) of
the disposal well facilities.
28.          Improvement of Liquid and Solid Waste Treatment Facilities.  The
project's forrnation water injection scheme would be supplemented by adequate liquid
waste treatment facilities. Limited to the fields to be rehabilitated under the project, these
units would allow SPA to select the most appropriate process technology, which would
then be used to upgrade existing units throughout Sichuan Basin and develop new ones.
The treatment process to be selected would be based upon field proven technology,
efficiency, ease of operation and maintenance, capable of continuous operations with
minimal no sludge generation. It would process contaminated formation water and other
field waste liquids. It would be integrated into the facility configuration, which in turn
would be based on the most effective mechanical treatment (gravity separation by
sk irmnming and hydrocyclone centrifuging or enhanced coalescence by precipitation and
filtering) including chemical treatment to enhance the process efficiency.  Chemical
treatment would also be taken into account and limited to field-proven products such as
surface active agents (surfactant, foaming agents, demulsifiers and emulsion breakers),
coagulating agents and polyelectrolyte. Complete chemical feed piping and pumps together
with solution dosing tanks will be provided with each unit.
29.          Most of the solid wastes consist of drilled cuttings and associated sludge
contained in earthen pits. These pits are now causing some concem to SPA as a large part
of the drilling activity is within cultivated lands. About 130,000 cu.m. of drilled cuttings,
mud and sludge are produced each year within the well locations, which cover a total area
of about 120 hectares. Pits are active for the duration of the drilling operations, which last
between 6 and 12 months. Those pits located in cultivated lands are generally closed after
the wells are completed, by conventional methods, such as dispersing, pumping and burial.
Others are simply abandoned or converted to formation water reserve slumps. In many
cases, however, these non concrete lined pits become a source of contamination, suggesting



-98-                           ANNEX 5.1
that such wastes should be treated. Drilling waste is best treated onsite while well drilling
is in progress. In this regard, the project would assist SPA in introducing new equipment
and techniques to tackle these problems. First, multiwell pad directional and horizontal
drilling would limit the number of well locations. Second, the drilling rigs would be
equipped with adequate mud solids control systems with mobile drilling fluid and cuttings
processing units. The units, which are now field proven and extensively used in North
America and Western Europe, separate solids from liquids through a closed loop
mechanical process, which is supplemented by flocculants. The fluids are totally recovered
for reuse (recycled within the drilling rig fluid circulation system) and the drilled cuttings
and associated sludge are rendered harmless for the environment and solidified for use in
field civil works. The units also would eliminate or considerably reduce the size of the
drilling site pits, which constitute substantial space consuming constructions in well
locations. The units are self contained trailer or skid mounted and can be used by any type
of drilling rig.
30.          Upstream  Components' Impact on Ultimate Gas Recovery and Gas
Conservation. To achieve an ultimate gas recovery and subsequently an adequate gas
conservation at the field level, the project will introduce, through the proposed upstream
components, appropriate techniques in well spacing, well completion design, surface
facility configuration and operating and maintenance. Well spacing will be based on
reservoir characteristics and gas volumetric displacement parameters, which will be derived
from conclusive production testing of appraisal and delineation wells and from other
reliable bottom-hole data, thus ensuring uniform reservoir drainage. It will be the focal
point of the field development scheme and designed with the possibility of a phased
implementation through infill drilling. Well completion design will be based on a bottom-
hole assembly configuration that allows controlled production flow rates, ensuring a
uniform reservoir depletion. It will include equipment that eliminates sand production,
thus reducing equipment wear and shutdowns for surface facility cleanout. It will involve
adequate casing and tubing strings, minimize risks of well damage and facilitate well
preventive maintenance and repairs.
31.          Surface facility configuration will be based on a multiyear-production plateau
tak-ing into account accurate determination of reserves for an optimal recovery. This will
result in larger gas treatment units and water removal vessels than generally conceived by
SPA. Larger field based self contained modular facilities will be preferred to several small
ones which are added during the field production life. Larger units provide more treatment
flexibility and handling of a significant gas/water ratio. The plants' operating pressure will
be as low as possible in order to delay or eliminate compression allowing maximum gas
recovery at least cost. Some of the plants' modules can be removed as the gas reservoirs
are depleted, hence operating and maintenance will be based much more on reservoir
management rather than production targets. To optimize exploitation and as a routine
reservoir management aid, fields will be developed using reservoir simulation with cross-
sectional model. Reserve depletion will be managed through simulation with the aim of
maximizing gas recovery. Reservoir behavior will be monitored through periodic down-
hole pressure and temperature measurements using modern equipment including bore-hole
televiewer. Updating and improving reservoir data will be continuous and part of field



- 99 -                          ANNEX 5.1
development plans. Reservoir vertical permeability and fractures will be particularly
studied in order to continuously quantify the nature and magnitude of water encroachment
into gas wells. Field development plans will be made flexible to incorporate new reservoir
data continuously as they become available.  Multilayer reservoirs will be selectively
completed to avoid watered-out intervals and control watercut levels.  Commingling
production from more than one reservoir will be avoided except for those intervals that
have the same reservoir characteristics and production parameters. Production stimulation,
particularly high pressure fracturing, will be based on ultimate recovery using cross-
sectional simulation studies and taking into account the risk of water encroachment.
32.          An Independent Regulatory Agency. In order for SPA to develop and
implement a sound reservoir management policy with the aim  of recovering 70 to
80 percent of in-place reserves and achieving an adequate gas conservation at the field
level, usual field development and production plans driven by demand considerations
designed essentially for present needs will have to be altered to encompass long-term
considerations, particularly with regard to production optimization. However, as in many
developed and developing countries, particularly those that are energy supply constrained,
setting the production level without any government influence or company quick payout
consideration, has proved to be difficult. Rules and regulations governing the sector in
general and field-operating practices in particular are especially ill-defined and inadequately
implemented by state owned companies.  This is a major obstacle to sound field
management. Many countries have successfully addressed this problem by establishing an
independent agency whose main role is to regulate the sector. Independent of any political
interference and operating separately from any government ministry and other politically
oriented organizations, the agency proved to be an efficient tool for separating resource
ownership from regulation. Some countries entrust both, ownership and regulations to
their state companies which has proved to be a problem for countries that now are opening
up their petroleum sector to private-sector participation.
33.          In the case of the gas sector in Sichuan, a role for a such a regulatory
agency would be approving, monitoring and regulating the physical aspects of exploration,
development and production of oil and gas. The agency would deal with gas conservation
issues, ensure the integrity of gas field development plans and that hydrocarbon resources
are maximized using sound technical and economic principles and taking into account
safety and environmental practices established by the international industry. Monitoring
gas production volumes would be one of the first tasks of the agency. In this regard, the
agency would evaluate each field separately and an appropriate production rate set by
taking into account the available reserves, the ultimate recovery potential, the reservoir
depletion plan, the presence of an active water drive, the potential for reservoir damage,
the production capability of the wells and other reservoir characteristics and gas volumetric
displacement parameters. A maximum well rate limitation (MWRL) would be established
for fields where the agency believes that reservoir damage or gas losses into the reservoir
may result from excessive production flow rates. MWRL are usually set annually with the
view of achieving a maximum gas recovery from the reservoirs taking into account specific
reservoir parameters such as formation pressure, temperature, compressibility, porosity,
permeability, recovery life and other relevant characteristics derived from well production



- 100 -                        ANNEX 5.1
tests. The agency could also specify maximum gas flaring limits to acconmmodate genuine
mechanical breakdowns in gas processing plants, field power failures and production
testing of offset wells. To encourage field preventive maintenance, penalties should be
applied for flaring gas beyond the set limits.
34.          Other Roles for the Agency. The agency could also act as an instrument
of the Government policy in issuing petroleum exploration, development and production
licenses. It could prepare petroleum licensing promotional material and data packages,
determine bidding documents and conditions, administer access to technical data, receive
and evaluate proposals, negotiate and execute agreements and check that the licensee
conforms with the license conditions. With regard to monitoring and regulating the
petroleum operations, while the operational decisionmaking is the responsibility of the
operating companies, the agency could develop rules and regulations establishing minimum
standards for well drilling operations, production, gas processing and transmission, water
disposal operations and other technical field practices. Furthermore, the agency could also
develop and enforce oil and gas field operating safety codes covering all aspects of
petroleum exploration, development, production, processing, transmission and marketing.
Another important role for the agency would be monritoring, auditing production, oil and
gas revenues, royalties, taxes and other Government's financial interests in both Chinese
and foreign operating companies. Once established, the agency could also deal with oil
and gas related pricing, costing including review of operating companies' investment
programs for economic regulation. The establishment of such an agency would be in
phases, over two to three years. The regulatory framework will be addressed under the
JGF-financed study on oil and gas sector restructuring.



-101 -                         ANNEX 5.2
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SUBCOMPONENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.          The gas transmission and distribution system  (T&D) of the Sichuan
Petroleum Administration (SPA) comprises a pipeline grid and a number of spurs, totaling
about 2,800 km in length. It transports about 16 million cubic meters of natural gas per
day from five gas producing regions (Northwest, Southwest, South, Central and East) to
about one million, commercial entities and small industries through the city gas companies
and directly to about 600 large industries. This system is about 12-20 years old, except
for the north loop linking East and Southwest regions, which was built about five years
ago. Its maintenance and expansion plans have been underfunded, mainly due to financial
constraints. It is prone to breakdowns (110 since 1978), gas leakages and accidents. A
preinvestment study (called the Diagnostic Study) of the system was recently completed
with the assistance of PRIF-financed international consultants to evaluate the capability,
efficiency and reliability of SPA's T&D system and to determine the most efficient
measures for its rehabilitation, environmental upgrade and expansion to transport an
additional 4 million cubic meters of natural gas per day expected to be produced in the
East region.
B. DIAGNOSTIC STUDY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
2.          The recently completed Diagnostic Study concluded that:
(a)   the integrity of the system is uncertain and the safety of the operating
personnel and the general public is being put at risk;
(b)   the standards and safety regulations for system  operation have been
frequently disregarded and internal corrosion in the pipelines due to release
of nonspecification gas (wet and sour gas) into the transmission system is
the most serious problem;
(c)   in emergencies, the grid control system cannot efficiently respond to rapid
changes in the operating conditions;
(d)   the responsibility for the operation of the system is divided between several
departments, and there is a lack of accountability at senior management
level; and
(e)   the expertise of the staff requires upgrading.



-102-                            ANNEX 5.2
Major Issues
3.           Major issues in gas transmission and distribution are: a) damage control and
rehabilitation of transmission and distribution system; b) optimal expansion of the system
to meet the enhanced gas supply targets; and c) efficient and safe operation.
4.           To address the above issues, the strategy formulated by SPA, which has
taken into account the recommendations of the diagnostic study, include the following:
(a)   installation of gas dehydration and purification facilities at identified sour
gas locations to ensure that only dry, sweet gas (in accordance with
specifications) will enter the transmission and distribution system;
(b)   implementation of a rehabilitation and capacity expansion plan, for the
transmission and distribution system, as recommended by the diagnostic
study, that would mitigate the risk and optimize the upgrading and
expansion for safe and efficient operations over the next 20 years;
(c)   reorganize the gas transmission and distribution operations to clearly focus
the responsibility for efficient planning and operation of the system;
(d)    upgrading the staff expertise; and
(e)    enhancement of safety regulation.
Gas Purification
5.           To ensure system integrity and to increase the life expectancy of the gas
transmission and distribution system, only dry and sweet gas (in accordance with the
specifications) would be allowed to enter the pipelines. Gas dehydration and purification
facilities will be installed at a central location at each gas field producing nonspecification
gas. If this is not feasible, then the facilities will be installed at the receipt stations for gas
entering the transmission pipelines. Actual locations will be determined through site
feasibility studies.
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Gas Transmission and Distribution
6.           The plan, as formulated under the Diagnostic Study, has the dual purpose
of (a) upgrading the reliability and capability of the system; and (b) deterioration
monitoring and evaluation so that the best rehabilitation and capacity expansion decisions
can be made during the next 20 years. In system upgrading, emphasis has been on (a)
improvement of control, communication and, maintenance capability and (b) rehabilitation
through replacement of parts/components rather than outright substitution of the whole
plants/sections. Deterioration monitoring and evaluation of the system will be an ongoing
process. Once set in motion, this process will provide early warning of any trouble



-103-                          ANNEX 5.2
brewing in the system and will enable appropriate and timely remedial measures to be
undertaken.
Upgrading the Reliability
7.          It will take an estimated year and a half under the best possible conditions
to set up the gas purification subcomponent under the project. Meanwhile, the mainlines
will be pegged clean and dry as required and where sour conditions are present or
suspected, inhibition by continuous injection and batching will be utilized to mitigate the
internal corrosion process. Gas quality monitoring instrumentation will be installed on the
system and monitoring will determine the ongoing need for inhibition operations. Once
the network has been cleaned and operating according to the newly upgraded standards and
procedures, the drying and inhibition operations can be phased out. The exception will be
any local short sections which continue to see wet/sour service.
8.           External corrosion protection will be upgraded in one section near Well Wei-
6 and thermal electric generators will be installed to replace existing rectifiers at nine
stations where the power reliability has been identified as being low. However, the most
important consideration for the future is to monitor increased current requirements which
may be indicative of wide spread coating deterioration in the future.
9.           A total of eleven river crossings have been identified, which need to be
carefully examined to determine if they can withstand probable flood conditions. SPA has
identified these rivers only as high risk and high consequence locations. The plan assumes
all eleven will need to be replaced using modern mechanized methods as a cost-effective
precaution against flood failure.
10.          The plan recommends the implementation of a supervisory control and data
acquisition system (SCADA) system tailored to SPA's needs which includes mainline
measurement and automation at selected locations and a supporting telecommunications
system. These systems will provide SPA with basic control and data gathering capability
which will make their operation more efficient in routing gas to supply customers and in
responding to emergency shut downs and maintenance situations.
11.          All meter runs will be inspected and replaced as required.  Metering
accuracy is a key business consideration for SPA.  All mainline valves will be
operationally checked and replaced as required with valves which are easy to maintain and
fully compatible with the operators required for SCADA. Scrubbers and valves at stations
will be upgraded to and overpressurization protection will be provided for the mainlines.
Equipment, procedures, and training will be upgraded to provide SPA with enhanced
maintenance and construction capability at the district level.
Deterioration Mlonitoring
12.          The plan will also initiate a program designed to determine the extent of
deterioration which has already occurred on the pipeline system. This program consists



-104-                         ANNEX 5.2
of hydrostatic testing of three to four representative sections of pipeline which have been
exposed to a potentially severe corrosive environment inside the pipe. These sections can
be removed from service for extended periods of time without a major business disruption
to SPA and will provide a good basis for assessing overall system condition. The second
important data gathering means put forward in the plan is the in-line inspection (ILI) of the
173-kilometer Lianglu pipeline. This will involve extensive modifications to the existing
pipeline but will establish the actual pipeline condition and will provide future ILI
capability, as well as increase the efficiency of all pigging operations. The Lianglu
pipeline is a major transmission section which moves the gas to the urban centers of
Sichuan province from the primary fields in the east region.
Capacity Expansion
13.         SPA's plan provides for expansion of SPA's pipeline network in the east
region in order to move reserves out of the Wubaiti, Fengjiawan, and Mingda areas. In
order to meet the forecast supply and demand requirements, approximately 211 kilometers
of NPS 18 pipeline will be constructed and commissioned by year end 1996. An additional
72-km of NPS 10 and NPS 16 will be installed by year end 1999. In order to handle the
maximum supply through Lianglu forecast by Sproule Associates, facilities expansion is
required on the south trunkline of the system. The expansion consists of looping the
existing Naxi to Fuying pipeline with 35 km of NPS 20 pipe by 1994 and adding a
compressor station at Hejiang (West) by 1996. The station will consist of two centrefugal
compressor units (5,000 HP each) to begin with, one of which is backup, and a third unit
of the same size to be added by the year 2000.
Customer Pipeline
14.         It was determined at the outset of this project, during the data gathering and
coanfirmation stage, that detailed consideration of customer pipelines was outside the scope
and would therefore not be considered in the rehabilitation planning. These pipelines are
not owned by SPA, the majority are not operated by SPA, and no data is available for
consideration. Nevertheless, they are the downstream recipient of problems generated by
the producers and SPA with respect to gas quality. The diagnostic study report has
emphasized not merely a cost-effective approach to pipeline rehabilitation but has also put
in considerable effort to explain the reasoning for the approach. Volume 111, "Assessment
of System Integrity," in particular describes the concems and evaluation process used to
formulate a plan. This information should be presented by SPA to its customers in the
interest of public safety and avoidance of business disruptions.
15.         SPA will be forming a task force to implement the rehabilitation plan. This
task force should take the responsibility to inform and educate the customers and, if
necessary, work with them to review and upgrade existing construction practices and
procedures. If agreement with individual customers can be reached, SPA may extend its
cleaning, drying, and inhibition programs to major customer lines. Cleaning and drying
runs will give an indication of possible conditions inside the pipeline and gas composition



- 105 -                        ANNEX 5.2
into the customer line should be estimated by SPA prior to recommending any inhibition
program.
16.         In addition, SPA should advise its customers that no major expenditure such
as hydrostatic testing or in-line inspection (if feasible) should be undertaken without the
task force first determining the need by evaluating the risks and consequences of failure
for the specific pipeline(s). If the decision is made to proceed with such an operation, the
standards developed by SPA (with outside consultant assistance) for their rehabilitation
program should be adopted for customer use.
Environmental Upgrades
17.         In examining control options for reducing methane emissions from fugitive
equipment leaks, there are three basic types of leaks: random, chronic and normal
operational. Random leaks are those that may be expected to occur due to normal wear
and certain irregular effects (improper installation or equipment defects), but that provide
little or no trouble once repaired.  Chronic leaks are those that require frequent or
continuous maintenance due to more persistent and difficult to correct causes such as poor
or inadequate designs, demanding process conditions, high usage or abusive environments.
Normal operational leaks on the other hand are inherent to the design of some components
such as certain pump seals and compressors seals. This type of leak cannot be classed as
random or chronic but may become a random leak through wear.
18.         Based on observations made by the consultants during the field work, most
of the equipment leaks are of the random type. The best, most efficient method of
controlling those types of leaks is to implement regular leak detection and repair (LDAR)
programs (inspection and maintenance programs). Based on the experience of industrv in
the United States, it is reasonable to expect a 70 percent reduction in fugitive emissions
if LDAR programs are performed on a regular basis in accordance with US EPA leak
performance standards.
19.         An LDAR program consists of using a portable organic vapor analyzer to
check (screen) potential fugitive emission sources for leaks. Those sources that give a
maximum screening value above some specified limit (for example, 10,000 ppm) are
considered to be in need of repair or replacement and are said to be leaking. Those
components that screen below this value are considered to be in an acceptable state of
repair and are said to be not leaking. Leaking equipment components are to be tagged and
scheduled for repair.
20.         If less than two percent of all potential sources are leaking then fugitive
equipment leaks are considered to be well controlled. Otherwise, more frequent LDAR
programs are required. To apply an ongoing LDAR program for all potential leak points
at all facilities on the SPA system could be a onerous task. However, a more selective
approach which targets sources with the highest leak frequency may provide a much
greater return on control efforts would be much more cost effective. Specifically, efforts
should be focused on leakage past valve seats into the vent systems, and on leakage from



- 106-                         ANNEX 5.2
valve packing systems since these sources account for 85.2 percent of total fueitive
me-.uane emissions. Secondary efforts should focus on compressor seals and packings,
open-ended lines and pressure relief devices as these source are relatively few in number
and are prone to leaking; they account for an additional 7.0 percent of fugitive methane
emissions.
21.          Recommendations. Initial efforts to control methane emissions from the
SPA natural gas system should be focused on the problem of fugitive equipment leaks.
Comprehensive ongoing leak detection and repair programs should be implemented, and
that they be conducted at a frequency of at least once annually. If more than two percent
of the components are determined to be leaking (that is have a screening value of 10,000
ppm or more) during these programs, then the frequency of the programs should be
increased as required. Specific recommendations for the scope of the LDAR program and
for some additional control measures are itemized below by type of source.  The
incremental reductions in methane losses that may result from each option are summarized
in the table at the end of this section.
(a)   Valves. Considerable effect may be required to bring all components into
a state of good maintenance. A certain portion of the components will
likely be beyond reasonable repair and need to be replaced. Based on
discussions with several commercial valve repair and remanufacturing
companies and on results of the field inspections, it is estimated that
probably 30 percent of leaking valves in use on the SPA system will need
to be replaced.  With the ban on asbestos packing materials in North
America, a variety of options have emerged including die formed graphite,
and various types of polymeric materials. Some of these new materials
have broader ranges of application and can provide superior leak control.
These better packing materials should be installed in all valves that can
accommodate them. Maintenance teams may require special training to
install these packings.
(b)   Compressor Seals. Compressor Seals are prone to leaking and can be
significant sources of emissions. To repair compressor seals it is usually
necessary to have a complete system shutdown unless backup compression
facilities are available. Two reasonable solutions to this problem are to
either install high performance packing systems which will last the full
period between regular shutdowns, or install a small incinerator to dispose
of seal gases when they occur until a convenient shutdown can be arranged.
It is recommended that better seals be installed to the extent possible.
However, this must be coupled with improved alignment and increased
maintenance of the packing case to be effective. Where major modifications
or repairs are required, it is recommended that small incinerators be
installed to dispose of any seal gases.
(c)   Open-Ended Lines. Where a block valve is connected to a vent system,
a second valve should be installed immediately downstream  to control



- 107 -                           ANNEX 5.2
leakage past the valve seat.  Where a block valve opens directly to the
atmosphere, it should be equipped with a chained cap or plug. In both
cases, the existing valve should be repaired or replaced so that it is in good
working condition.
(d)    Pressure Relief Valves. When pressure relief valves reseat after having
been activated, they often leak because the original tight seal is not regained
due to damage of the seating surface or a build-up of foreign material on the
seat plug. An effective method of controlling this source of emissions is to
install a rupture disk immediately upstream of the pressure relief valve. It
is recommended that this be done at all SPA facilities. The rupture disk
will shield the valve from corrosive process fluids during normal operation.
Moreover, if an overpressure condition occurs, replacement of the disk may
be delayed until the next scheduled shutdown period.  In the interim,
protection against overpressuring is provided by the relief valve. A pressure
indicator should be installed between the valve and the rupture disk to show
when the rupture disk has failed. If frequent replacement of rupture disks
is required, it may be appropriate to install a block valve upstream of the
rupture disk to facilitate early replacement or repair of the components.
22.           For the LDAR  program  to be effective there needs to be a strong
conmuitment by both site personnel and by administration.  Moreover, some central
monitoring and enforcement of the program by SPA is required. It is recommended that
a dedicated microcomputer, maintenance software package and data management system
be purchased to help organize maintenance and inspection activities and track
improvements in environmental performance.
23.           Methane emissions reductions that are achievable through implementation
of the above options are tabulated below.
Emissions Reduction      Methane Reductions
Option                 (tons/year)
Installation of Double Valves on       53,282
Vent Stacks
Installation of Plugs on Open-          1,194
Ended Lines
Rupture Disk Installation and           6,736
Replacement of Leaking PSVs
Upgrade Compressor Seals                  528
Upgrade control valve Packing              77
Upgrade Block Valve Packing             15,257
Total                                   77,074



- 108-                        ANNEX 5.2
24.         A total methane emissions reduction of 77,074 tons per year can be achieved
through implementation of all of the above options. An additional 6,377 tons per year
reduction on methane can also be realized through the replacement of 832 defective block
valves and 34 defective control valves as part of LDAR programs on block valves, and
control valves.
Reorganization of Gas Transmission and Distribution Operations
25.         Until recently, the responsibility for planning and operation of SPA's
transmission and distribution system was divided between the five gas producing sub-units,
notably the East Sichuan Gas Production Company, and headquarters' Transmission and
Distribution Department. This had led to a lack of coordination and procedural consistency
in the operation and maintenance of the system.  It had also resulted in a lack of
accountability at the senior management level. This has, in turn, contributed to the release
of non-specification gas into the system. Further, long-term plans for the operation and
development of the system have never been drawn up and its maintenance and capacity
expansion has remained underfunded.   SPA  recognizes that without an efficient
transmission and distribution system, linking the gas resources with the markets, efficient
development of the gas sector would not be possible. Thus, SPA has recently established
the Gas Transmission and Distribution Company (GTDC), consolidating all the
transmission and distribution operations into a single sub-unit which is fully accountable
for efficient transportation of gas from the fields to major consumers and the city gas
companies. The organization chart of GTDC is in Chart 3.
Upgrading of Staff Expertise
26.          SPA's transmission and distribution system is quite extensive and requires
a broad base of skills to adequately manage, operate and maintain it. In comparing the
analysis of skills required to operate and maintain this system to a high level of reliability
and accuracy with the skills currently available in SPA, the Diagnostic Study has identified
skill deficiencies in key areas which has resulted in severe degradation of the system
operations and integrity over the years.  SPA would have to place high priority on
correcting the skill deficiencies particularly in the management of transmission and
distribution operations, project management, long-term planning, demand management,
system integrity assessment, pipeline failure investigation, preventive maintenance,
measurement engineering, geotechnical engineering, gas control and dispatch, and
environrmental protection. The program of skill upgrading would include the following:
(a)   On-the-job training in parallel with system  rehabilitation, deterioration
monitoring and capacity expansion with assistance of consultants to be
engaged to provide the necessary expertise;
(b)   Courses on specialized topics to be held in Chengdu; these courses would
be designed and conducted by experts from an experienced gas utility and/or
gas technology institute in North America and Western Europe; and



- 109-                          ANNEX 5.2
(c)    Post-graduate studies (two-year course) in the universities in North America
and Western Europe for twenty staff and short courses (4-6 months) for 50
staff in business administration, gas utility management, project
management, and the various disciplines of gas technology.
Safety Regulation
27.          The standards for design and operation of natural gas transportation systems
were compiled by Sichuan Petroleum Administration's Design Institute and were
promulgated in 1980, under a decree of the former Ministry of Petroleum Industry
(MOPI). The oil and gas safety regulations were prepared by China National Petroleum
Corporation (CNPC) and were approved and promulgated in 1989 by the State Council.
SPA, in its capacity as an administrative bureau, is responsible for the enforcement of
these standards and safety regulations. However, as an operating agency, SPA is not best
suited to enforce these standards, also with the forthcoming enterprise reforms, there will
several independent agencies and companies operating in the gas sector and it will be
necessary to establish an office of the Regulator (or a Regulatory Commission). The
Regulator's office should be established in the central governrnent with a branch office in
Chengdu, to oversee the enforcement of standards and safety regulations in Sichuan
Province. This would be addressed under the oil/gas sector restructuring study.
C. GAS TRANsMISSION AND DISTRIBUrION PROJEcr COMPONENT
28.          Based on the recommendations of the diagnostic study, the gas transmission
and distribution component of the project would cover rehabilitation, environmental
upgrade and capacity expansion of the system and the necessary technical assistance for
project implementation and staff skills upgrading. Specifically it would include;
(a)    Rehabilitation and upgrading of pipelines, measurement, corrosion control,
corrosion inhibition, telecommunication, gas control, gas quality monitoring
and emergency response facilities of SPA's entire gas transmission and
distribution system;
(b)    Deterioration monitoring and evaluation of the transmission and distribution
system;
(c)    Cost-effective measures to reduce methane emissions, including:
(i) installation of second valves at vent stacks;
(ii)  installation of chained caps or plugs at the open ended lines;
(iii)  upgrading of packing for control valves;
(iv)  replacement of high performance packing of compressor seals;
(v)  replacement of pressure relief valves and control valves;
(vi)  upgrading of packing for block valves;
(vii)  replacement of block valves;
(viii) plugging of open-ended lines; and



-110-                          ANNEX 5.2
(ix)  replacement of control valves which cannot accommodate packing.
(d)   System capacity expansion through the construction of:
(i)  20 in diameter x 35-km long loop line from Fuying to Naxi;
(ii)  18 in diameter x 16-km long loop line from Wubaiti to Jiangzhi;
(iii)  18 in diameter x 71-km  long loop line from  Wulonghe to
Daosuiqiao;
(iv)  18 in diameter x 124-km long pipeline from Jiangzhi to Wulonghe;
and
(v)  10 in diameter x 40-km long pipeline from Fengjiawan to Wanxian,
along with the related corrosion control, measurement and gas
control facilities;
(e)   Provision of a supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA) for
the whole transmission and distribution system; and
(f)    Technical assistance covering,
(i)  consultant services for,
3     system deterioration monitoring and evaluation,
-     training of SPA staff in Chengdu,
-     upgrading the operation and construction manuals, and
(ii)  Overseas training of SPA staff.
29.          Measures for environmental upgrade (i) through (v) above are expected to
result net economic benefits; while measures (vi) through (ix) would result in net economic
costs.  The proposed GEF funding would finance most of the incremental costs of
measures (vi) through (viii).
Implementation
30.          SPA  will be the agency responsible for the project execution.  The
implementation of this component will be organized through its subsidiary, the Gas
Transmission and Distribution Company, with the manager of the company as the Project
Manager. Services of international consultants, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank, will be retained to advise and assist in svstem rehabilitation. The draft Terms
of Reference for the consultancy services are attached.



- 111 -                        ANNEX 5.2
REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY EXPANSION OF
GAS TRANSMIISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
IMPLEMENTATION AND TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.          The gas transmission and distribution (T&D) system of Sichuan Petroleum
Administration (SPA) comprises a pipeline grid and a number of spurs, totaling about
2,800 km in length. It transports about 16 million cubic meters of natural gas per day
from five gas producing regions (Northwest, Southwest, South, Central and East) to about
one million commercial entities and small industries through the city gas companies and
directly to about 600 large industries. This system is about 12-20 years old, except for the
north loop linking East and Southwest regions, which was built about five years ago. Its
maintenance and expansion plans have been underfunded, mainly due to financial
constraints. It is prone to breakdowns (110 since 1978), gas leakages and accidents. A
pre-investment study (called the Diagnostic Study) of the system was recently completed
with the assistance of international consultants to evaluate SPA's T&D system's capability,
efficiency and reliability and to determine the most efficient measures for its rehabilitation
and for its expansion, if required, to transport an additional 4 million cubic meters of
natural gas per day expected to be produced in the East region.
2.           The plan, as formulated under the Diagnostic Study, has the dual purpose
of (a) upgrading the reliability and capability of the system and (b) its deterioration
monitoring and evaluation so that the best rehabilitation and capacity expansion decisions
can be made during the next 20 years. In system upgrading, emphasis has been on (a)
improvement of control, communication and, maintenance capability and (b) rehabilitation
through replacement of parts/components rather than outright substitution of the whole
plants/sections. Deterioration monitoring and evaluation of the system will be an ongoing
process. Once set in motion, this process will provide early warning of any trouble
brewing in the system and will enable appropriate and timely remedial measures to be
undertaken.
3.           SPA will be the agency responsible for the implementation of the plan which
will be organized through its subsidiary, The Gas Transmission and Distribution Company,
with the manager of the company as the Project Manager. SPA would like to engage the
services of a qualified consultant, hereinafter called "The Consultant" to assist the Gas
Transmission and Distribution Company in the implementation of the rehabilitation plan.
Scope
(a)   Review  of the  rehabilitation  plan  and  detailed  planning  of its
implementation.



- 112 -                          ANNEX 5.2
(b)    Review of detailed specifications for the materials and equipment required,
procurement documents and bid evaluation.
(c)    Organization and planning of system deterioration monitoring and evaluation
which, inter alia, include;
(i) hydrostatic testing of the pipelines, establishing appropriate
procedures including test pressures and environmental protection
measures, and determining practicality of hydrostatic testing
approach on the basis of test failures; analysis of failures and
correlation of data;
(ii) inline inspection of pipelines, including development of detailed
inspection plans, preliminary cleaning/gauging, drying, caliper runs,
profile tool and ILI, tracking and handling, evaluation of results;
(iii) drying/caliper pigging; identifying sections which should have
priority; sizing/gauging and judging the need for further caliper pig
runs; and
(iv) evaluation of data, assessment of integrity and recommendations for
repair, preventive maintenance or replacement of the pipelines and
related equipment.
(d)    Assistance in the planning of internal and external corrosion mitigation.
(e)    Assistance in rehabilitation management, formation of taskforce and teams,
integrity data gathering, deterioration and mitigation effectiveness
assessment, data management and trend analysis, failure analysis and root
cause assessment, and relevant counterpart training.
(f)    Upgrading of operational and construction manuals.
4.           The consultant will closely coordinate his work with the system expansion
activities and will advise on the specifications of the materials required for system
expansion.
5.           On assignment, the consultant will promptly plan and render all necessary
advice/assistance to the Gas Transmission and Distribution Company of SPA towards
successful completion of the rehabilitation plan. He will be responsible to the manager of
the company and will closely liaise with the vice managers. Except for certain backup
services from the consultant's headquarters organization to be specified in the contract, the
consultant will carry out the assignment in the field, associating the company's staff to the
fullest possible extent in order to provide on the job training using modern up-to-date
techniques of the industry.



-113 -                         ANNEX 5.3
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.          With 5 major operational districts, 28 subsidiaries, more than 100 drilling
rigs, 22 seismic crews, a large gas transmission and distribution network and a total
workforce of about 106,000 people, SPA's training needs are enorrnous. To bridge the
gap and in order for the project to reach its objective of achieving optimal gas recovery,
the project would include a comprehensive training program for SPA staff. In addition,
workshops and on-the-job training by twinning would also be organized, at no cost, by
major equipment suppliers and contractors as part of their sales and field operations service
contracts. Further, the project would include a technical assistance program in in project
implementation and in addressing specific operational concerns.
Proposed Training Program
2.           The objectives of the proposed training program for SPA staff would be to:
(a) ensure the availability of manpower with the aptitude to absorb and effectively utilize
the technology to be imported for project implementation; (b) support SPA's efforts in
strengthening its institutional capabilities in enterprise reforrn, policy forrnulation and
sector management; and (c) provide the basis for continuous development of manpower
skills to enhance the sector's overall performance. Specifically, the project would provide
for short and medium-term training in finance, administration, and field operations to
improve the managerial perforrnance and optimize the development of the sector. It would
also develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between SPA and the international
oil and gas industry, training institutions and energy agencies to ensure effective transfer
of technology. The program is of relevance to SPA's overall objective of enhancing the
development of its human resources and achieving efficiency. It would cover a broad
spectrum of activities in gas production, transmission and distribution along with enterprise
reform and environmental protection. This would include in-house training, overseas
training and overseas study tours.
In-Country Training. In-country training would be specially prepared to
meet SPA's needs and conducted in Sichuan by experts from international training firmns
and worldwide known petroleum institutes and universities. Some 40 foreign experts
would be invited to provide tailor-made courses covering all aspects of natural gas
development (Geophysics, Geology, Drilling, Reservoir Testing and Depletion, Surface
Facility Construction, Purification, Transmission and Distribution, SCADA, Environmental
Protection, Finance, Planning, Administration and Enterprise Restructuring). The courses
would be dispensed in classroom sessions, of about 2 week duration each. They would be
designed for operating personnel, engineers at all levels as well as for managers. They
would be based on the most recent technological developments and focusing on specifically
designed problem areas. Technical operational courses would involve, to the extent



-114 -                           ANNEX 5.3
possible, field application of some pertinent subjects to real life problems. About 1600
selected staff would attend these courses scheduled for the early part of project
implementation. The in-country training would cost about $0.5 million.
4.           Overseas Training. The proposed overseas training would be a major
component of SPA 's manpower development program since completion of the Weiyuan
technical assistance project in the late 1980s. This type of training is generally organized
for the international petroleum industry on a regular basis by international training firms
and well known petroleum institutes. The program proposed by SPA covers the same
disciplines as the in-house training and consists of 1, 2 and 6-month courses. The 1 and
2-month course sessions, for which SPA is proposing about 580 and 135 selected staff
respectively, would be intensive courses. One of the major aspects of these courses, would
be focusing on recent technological developments and emphasizing the practical "how to"
approach, for which participants would be provided with course materials for practical
application. They would be for engineers with some experience and managers at all levels
and specially for those in charge of specific programs. The 6-month training program, for
which SPA is proposing about 63 selected staff, consists of a combination of university-
based oil and gas technology studies and natural gas development management courses.
It could be made up of three modules: (a) basic refresher courses in all aspects of oil and
gas development; (b) current technological developments in oil and gas in terms of
exploration, development, utilization and overall management; and (c) specific projects
related to natural gas to be selected by the participants. Some of the courses could be
jointly organized by universities and petroleum institutes. The program is intended for
young postgraduate professionals, with good performance ratings, to be specialized in their
area of activity and for middle managers to be provided with a firm basis for progression
to senior management. The overseas training would cost about $5.6 million.
5.           Overseas Study Tour Training. The proposed overseas study tour training
consists of tours specifically organized on the basis of agreements with the parties to be
visited, international seminars, conferences and workshops organized by the international
petroleum industry and other institutions. SPA proposed study tours would be to develop
with other oil and gas companies as well as energy institutions multipurpose collaborative
relationships, with the objective of drawing lessons from others' experience. These tours,
which can last up to one month, would be for middle and high level management. SPA
proposed conferences, seminars and workshops would be selected on the basis of their
relevance to its overall development objectives. These training opportunities, which would
not take more than 2 weeks, would be for 280 staff consisting of managers and engineers
at all levels. The overseas study tour training would cost about $2.0 million.
6.           Technical Assistance. SPA's proposed studies and consultancy services
would include technical assistance in project implementation and in addressing specific
field operational difficulties. The studies relate essentially to upstream activities to review
problem areas such as seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation adequacy,
geology and particularly petrophysical aspects of relevant fields, drilling engineering to
improve rig fleet performance, and introduce new techniques. The consultancy services
would cover procurement, promotion of petroleum development to international investors,



-115 -                           ANNEX 5.3
environmental protection and construction of gas treatment plants, pipeline and SCADA.
They would also assist SPA selecting and operating appropriate gas desulfurization process
as well as defining plant locations (centralized vs decentralized). Both the studies and
consultancy services have been designed to ensure effective transfer of technology in all
aspects of natural gas development, transmission and distribution.
7.           Geophysics. SPA has carried out extensive geophysical work over the last
10 years.  Most of the work consists of seismic surveys, which often experienced
problems associated with extreme changes in surface elevations, variable near surface
(weathering problems), complex subsurface structures and lateral velocity variations. Most
wells to be drilled under the proposed project would be seismically located. To minimize
the risk of offset well locations and assess the seismic performance in general, SPA intends
to carry out a seismic study. The objective of the study would be to assess the acquisition,
processing and interpretation of selected lines with a special focus on field structures that
have been seismically defined. It would include reprocessing some lines using the most
recently developed field proven software packages. Based on the reprocessing results, the
study would evaluate the adequacy of SPA data processing technology and its impact on
defining structural features, stratigraphic traps, near surface variations associated with
complex thrusting and folding, and interactive weathering analysis. In addition, SPA
intends to conduct about 500 km of 3D seismic surveys on a very selective basis to resolve
local structural complexities. In this regard, the study should integrate 2D, 3D and, when
available, drilling data and carry out a geophysically-based reservoir evaluation,
particularly the extent of the porosity zones.  Furthermore, part of the study should
evaluate the possibility of improving the database system, such as integrating existing
seismic with other geological and drilling data and digitizing it for conversion to computer
format. The study would cost about $0.2 million.
8.           Geology.  Sichuan's natural gas is found in three different geological
formations. The first is a series of Sinian to Silurian marine carbonates and clastics, with
the Sinian carbonate being the most gas prone. The second is a very thick (2,000 m)
interval of Carboniferous, Permian and Triassic carbonates and reef facies, with the
carbonates being key gas producing strata. The third is the Upper Triassic clastics and
Lower Jurassic limestones, which contain significant gas reservoirs. Most of these gas
bearing formations have very low permeability and porosity and with multiple
noncommunicating fracture systems. Although, containing substantial gas reserves, their
productivity is generally very low. To better understand the geological complexity of the
basin, SPA intends to conduct three studies for Wubaiti, Moxi and Bajiaochang fields. The
studies would concentrate on the stratigraphy, sedimentation and petrophysics. The scope
of the studies would be to establish computer generated isopach, structure, paleostructure,
porosity and pore volume maps using available seismic and drilling data. The maps would
be used for correlations (well electric logs to seismic data interpretation) between the
various data acquisition methods used by SPA, petrophysical analysis, fracture system
delineation and reservoir studies to improve field productivity. The three studies are
expected to cost about $0.8 million.



- 116-                         ANNEX 5.3
9.           Drilling Engineering. SPA owns and operates 87 Romanian and Chinese
made drilling rigs. SPA drills about 100 wells per year, 4,000 to 5,500 m (14,000 to
18,000 Ft) deep and of which approximately 70 percent are appraisal and development and
30 percent exploration. Most of the rigs are old and no longer respond to deep drilling
requirements, particularly in a complex geology, often leading to excessive overall drilling
time. As a result, well quality is seriously affected by numerous problems, of which the
most serious are formation damage, which reduces substantially the well deliverability,
hole enlargement with subsequent inaccurate electric logging data and inadequate casing
cement bonding, both with far reaching implications on well completion and productive
life. Excessive drilling fluid losses while drilling also lead to serious reservoir stimulation
problems. About 60 percent of SPA's total budget is utilized in drilling and associated
operations. Therefore, to improve its drilling operations and reduce overall well drilling
cost, SPA intends to carry out three drilling studies.
10.         The objective of the first drilling study would be to improve the performance
of a selected number of rigs through overhauling. For this the study would assess the
mechanical integrity of the rigs and associated major equipment and propose refurbishing
only those rigs that can be economically operated for the foreseeable future. As the
number of rigs might be reduced, the study should also assess the possibility of
redeployment, to other activities, of affected drilling personnel. The objective of the
second study would be to improve the drilling fluid technology. SPA's drilling fluid
techniques constitute another serious problem area, for which the study would assess the
suitability of the chemicals being used and the adequacy of the rig fluid complexes,
particularly solids control systems.  The study would propose corrective measures
including system formulation and design. The objective of the third study would be to
introduce multiwell pad (cluster) drilling and horizontal drilling. The study would assess
the field areas suitable and equipment requirements for this type of drilling. The study
would propose specific parameters to define locations, number of wells and horizontal
displacements. It would also evaluate the benefits of such drilling techniques. The three
studies are expected to cost about $0.5 million.
11.         Well Production Stimulation and Gas Recovery. Most of Sichuan gas
fields are characterized by very tight reservoirs and low productivity wells. In many fields
with substantial reserves, wells cannot be economically produced unless they are
systematically stimulated.  Effective stimulations in Sichuan fields require complex
sequential operations (high pressure acid fracturing and other bottom hole hydraulic
treatments), which are designed on the basis of measured reservoir parameters. Accurate
measurements depend on conclusive production testings, which are associated with well
quality and equipment performance. Deficient well testing leads to inaccurate reservoir
definition and inadequate overall reservoir management. To assess to what extent these
problems affect SPA operations and how to correct them, SPA intends to carry out 6
different studies.
12.          The studies would be on SPA's well testing and stimulation and reservoir
management practices in the basin in general and in Wubaiti, Moxi and Bajiaochang fields
in particular. These fields have been selected given their different geological setting and



- 117-                         ANNEX 5.3
their relevance to field operations. Each of these fields would be subject to 2 studies, one
for testing and stimulation and the other for reservoir management. The objective would
be to optimize reservoir production using the most economical methods. In well testing
and stimulation, the studies should assess current engineering design and field
implementation practices and propose: (a) well testing programs taking into account well
conditions, drilling and other relevant geological data; and (b) well stimulation modules
conceived to assist engineers in the design and analysis of hydraulic fracturing treatments
based on various well and reservoir parameters and taken into account uncertainties that
can be identified. In reservoir management, the studies should assess SPA's current
approach to reserve recovery and evaluate and determine methodologies to enable SPA to
categorize its reserves and plan their development on a long-term production to achieve an
ultimate recovery rather than on a short-term production to achieve higher volumes. The
6 studies are expected to cost about $1.0 million.
13.         Rehabilitation and Deterioration Monitoring of Gas Transmission and
Distribution System. The plan, as formulated under the Diagnostic Study, has the dual
purpose of (a) upgrading the reliability and capability of the system; and (b) its
deterioration monitoring and evaluation so that the best rehabilitation and capacity
expansion decisions can be made. In system upgrading, emphasis has been on (a)
improvement of control, communication and maintenance capability; and (b) rehabilitation
through replacement of parts/components rather than outright substitution of whole
plants/sections; thus avoiding large scale investments.  Deterioration monitoring and
evaluation of the system will be an ongoing process. Once set in motion, this process will
also provide early warning of any trouble brewing in the system and will enable
appropriate, timely and cost effective remedial measures to be undertaken. Successful
implementation of this plan would however, depend on the development of high quality of
expertise within SPA, for which the services of an appropriate consultant would be
required over about three-year periods. The consultant would assist in: (a) the review of
detailed implementation plan, specifications of materials and equipment, procurement
documents and evaluation; (b) rehabilitation management; (c) capacity expansion,
upgrading of operational and construction manuals; and (d) on-the-job training of SPA's
staff. The consultant will be responsible to the Manager of SPA Transmission and
Distribution Company and will closely liaise with the Vice Managers. Except for certain
back up services from the consultant's headquarters organization, the consultant will carry
out the assignment in the field in full association with SPA's staff. The type and duration
of expertise to be provided by the consultant will match the implementation plan. It is
estimated that this consultancy will cost about $2.1 million.
14.          Environmental Protection. Once the exact locations of wells to be drilled
and surface facilities to be constructed under the project are known along with their
engineering details finalized, SPA would be assisted by an international consultant to
implement a program of mitigation measures (Annex 5.9). The consultancy service is
expected to cost about $0.2 million.



-118-                         ANNEX 5.3
15.         Financial Management. Provisions for training by international consultants
under the project would complement training bv local institutes which is beyond the scope
of the project.
(a)   Training Program Under the Project. The topics would include, inter
alia, accounting principles and practices of international oil and gas
companies; corporate financial management, notably cost control and
management as well as modern financing techniques; pricing policy and
tariff setting, taxation policy and gas marketing. The modality of training
would include a combination of training seminars at SPA, overseas training
and study tours. The cost of this component estimated at $0.7 million, is
included in in-country, overseas and study tour training cost estimates in
above paras. 3, 4 and 5.
(b)   Training by Local Institutes.  Topics would include financial and
managerial accounting, auditing, statistic principles, financial management
and computer applications.
(i) Short-term (6 months) Professional Training. Planned schedule:
1993-95; two classes per year; 40 persons per class; total trainees:
240. Trainees would be selected from SPA finance staff with no
professional titles but are expected to become professional
accountants.
(ii) Two-year College Program at the Southwest Finance and Economic
University. Planned schedule: 1993-96; 40 persons per class; total
trainees: 160. Trainees are high school graduates and are expected
to receive a two-year college diploma upon graduation from this
program.
(iii) English Language Training. Planned schedule: 1993-94; one I-year
class per year; 40 persons per class; total trainees: 80.
(iv)  Other Training.   This would  include TV  education  and
correspondence education.   Planned  schedule: 1993-96; total
trainees: 320.
16.         Cost Sumrnary. SPA's training cost estimates are based on recent price
lists published by international training firms for some components and in-house
calculations for others. The consultancy services are based on proposals received by SPA
in connection with the Project pre-investment studies. These costs (in $ million equivalent)
are:



- 119 -                       ANNEX 5.3
Training
Capacity Building                             0.5
Upstream Operations                           5.6
Gas Transmission & Distribution               2.0
Subtotal                                  8.1
Capacity Building
Upstream Operations                           2.5
Gas Transmission & Distribution               2.1
Subtotal                                  4.6
Project Implementation Support
Procurement                                   0.2
Environmental Mitigation                      0.3
Field Development Promotion                   0.2
Subtotal                                 11.4
SPA Total                                    13.4
CNPC Petroleum Education                      5.0
Total Training & Technical Assist.           18.4
Total                                    48.9






- 120-                         ANNEX 5.4
PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT PROMOTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.          With a view to accelerating the development of the gas sector in Sichuan,
the Sichuan Petroleum Administration (SPA) is considering the opening up of petroleum
blocks to international oil companies (IOCs). As a first step, SPA is seeking the approval
of its parent company, the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), and the
government to open up gas field development of the Datianchi structure for joint venture(s)
with IOCs. To manage this process effectively, SPA needs to build up its capability to
develop and strengthen its ties to potential international petroleum development partners.
To develop this capability, SPA requires technical assistance (TA) from experienced and
qualified consultant(s).
2.          Objectives. The TA objectives are to assist SPA in: (a) bringing to the
attention of the IOCs the hydrocarbon potential of the Sichuan basin; (b) development of
appropriate contractual mechanisms to initiate and increase foreign partner willingness to
invest; (c) development of SPA's technical capability to deal with the international
industry; (d) establishment of effective procedures for mobilization required financial
resources; (e) development of recommendations to the government on a legislative and
fiscal framework within which the SPA can negotiate contracts; and (f) negotiations with
the international investors.
3.           Scope of Work. The consultant would act primarily as an advisor and assist
SPA in carrying out the following tasks:
(a)   assess the potential attractiveness of the Sichuan basin to the IOCs, taking
into account (i) current petroleum resource potential; (ii) fiscal (pricing and
taxation) terms; and (iii) thorough economic analyses of the areas to be
promoted under alternative financing arrangements;
(b)   examine existing petroleum  exploration and development legal and
regulatory framework, evaluate the economic implications of existing tax
laws on foreign investment and recommend to the government amendments,
if any, to ensure that the petroleum agreements to be negotiated would be
in line with the country's legal and regulatory framework and goals;
(c)   evaluate different types of petroleum contractual arrangements, including but
not limited to joint ventures, production-sharing and service contracts, and



- 121 -                        ANNEX 5.4
recommend, after consultation with SPA, the most appropriate form of
agreements for SPA;
(d)   assess SPA's financial resources, skilled personnel and field logistic support
as well as any risk factors associated with the exploration and/or
development contract being offered in order to determine the appropriate
levels of participation and control of SPA and its partners;
(e)   determine the obligations of foreign partners in terms of minimum work
commitment and implementation timing in order to minimize the risk of
delaying economic benefits to be derived from the agreement. With regard
to field production rates, which have been subject to frequent controversies
between host countries and foreign operators, the agreement should be
subject to an independent regulatory agency or a clear statement that the
government, jointly with the operator, will determine a maximum efficient
production rate;
(f)   establish a petroleum data bank where existing geological, geophysical and
drilling data of relevant exploration areas and/or development fields, is
collated, translated and interpreted into formats and packages commonly
used by the international petroleum industry and which should also
demonstrate the geological prospectiveness of the Sichuan basin and
priorities licensing areas, taking into account the petroleum potential and
associated risks;
(g)   organize a promotional campaign to present to the international petroleum
industry, including the aforementioned data synthesis, legislative framework
and model contract; and
(h)   organize a core cadre of technical, financial and legal staff that can be
trained to effectively negotiate petroleum agreements, coordinate with the
private sector, deal with the complexities of petroleum exploration and
development promotion, identify priority areas, develop adequate
approximate cost estimation using published data in order to properly
evaluate the financial commitments of investors, and respond to any level
of interest in Sichuan petroleum development by the international industry.
4.           Qualifications of the Advisor.  The consultant should have extensive
professional experience in the international oil and gas industry with a broad exposure to
many facets of the business. Basic qualifications should be those of, but not limited to:
(a)    Lawyer specialized in the preparation of petroleum laws, regulations and
model contracts and in negotiations of international petroleum exploration
and development contracts. In addition to petroleum law, the consultant
should also possess a broad knowledge of petroleum economics,



- 122 -                          ANNEX 5.4
engineering, geology, geophysics, infrastructure and new ventures analysis;
and/or
(b)    Petroleum economist, or planner or engineer specialized in negotiations of
petroleum exploration and development contracts with indepth knowledge
of petroleum laws and regulations and broad knowledge of petroleum
geology, geophysics, infrastructure and new ventures analysis.
5.           Reports. The consultant will submit the following reports:
(a)    a diagnostic report (issues paper), describing the current situation and
highlighting the major issues related to SPA's future petroleum exploration
and/or development promotion;
(b)    a preliminary assessment report based on existing data regarding the
hydrocarbon potential of the areas and/or fields to be promoted;
(c)    an interim report (at a time to be determined in the advisor's contract) based
on the diagnostic report and the information developed from discussions
with SPA; the interim report should cover all of the items listed under the
above scope of work (para.3), including technical assumptions, economic
analyses and prospectiveness of the Sichuan basin. The report should also
outline the strategy to be adopted and preliminary actions to be taken for the
petroleum exploration and/or development promotion;
(d)    an assessment report with regard to the need for a petroleum regulation that
clearly defines sound resource conservation principles and an outline of a
model contract, taking into account commnents on the interim report; and
(e)    a final report incorporating agreements comments on all previous reports
and a summary of the proceedings/decisions taken during the assignment.
In this connection, the advisor's draft reports are to be discussed in detail
at all appropriate levels of SPA, CNPC and provincial as well as central
governments.  Work sessions would be organized to assist designated
representatives of the government to fully understand the proposed changes.
6.           Duration of the Assignment. About twelve months.
7.           Confidentiality and Conflict of Interest. The contract for this assignment
will provide that the consultant shall not accept or perform any services for any of the
parties investing or negotiating investment agreements with any of the Chinese public
entities with which the consultant will be working. The consultant shall hold strictly
confidential all information obtained during the performance of this assignment which is
not already in the public domain or otherwise lawfully in the possession of the consultant.
The conflict of interest provision will last two years after the end of the assignment, and
the confidentiality restriction will be indefinite.






- 123 -                        ANNEX 5.5
NATIONAL PETROLEUM EDUCATION
DIAGNOSTIC REVIEW
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.          China's oil and gas sector human resource development has been given
greater priority since the early 1980s.  The China National Petroleum  Corporation
(CNPC), which is responsible for all onshore exploration and development activities, is
entrusted with the task of higher education and training of the sector's manpower. CNPC,
which produces through its regional companies about 98 percent of China's oil and all of
the gas, has under its jurisdiction five petroleum institutes that aim to supply the sector
with professional personnel that possesses a sufficient quality of technical and managerial
skills. During the mid 1980s, the educational programs of the 5 institutes were
substantially upgraded to achieve an integrated system of higher technical education. The
programs were also expanded to cover all disciplines of petroleum technical education.
In addition, exchange programs were also initiated and developed with foreign institutions.
2.          Since the last two years, however, there has been a legitimate concern about
the higher petroleum education responsiveness to the sector's needs. For this purpose,
CNPC intends to carry out a diagnostic study of the educational performance of the five
petroleum institutes. CNPC would invite about 10 experts from selected foreign petroleum
institutes and universities to visit China for about two weeks, to: (a) assess the performance
of current fundamental education and training of the institutes; and (b) make
recommendations for improvements including developing a comprehensive approach to:
(a) upgrading the capability of teaching and training personnel, existing programs and some
facilities such as laboratories and libraries; (b) strengthening the institutes' research and
development capacity; and (c) developing and strengthening a sustainable collaborative
relationship between the Chinese and selected foreign institutes and universities. The
experts, each covering a specific petroleum education discipline (Geology, Geophysics,
Petroleum Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Business and
Management, Computer Science and Education and Training Technology), would be
requested to:
(a)   visit the institutes for discussions and inspections of relevant facilities such
as laboratories, libraries, research and computer centers, and classrooms as
well as examination of curricular and course materials;
(b)   discuss with management of the institutes, CNPC and CNPC's regional
companies the perceived strengths and weaknesses of current petroleum
higher education system;



-124 -                         ANNEX 5.5
(c)   assess the relationship of the petroleum higher educational programs to the
needs of the oil and gas fields in petroleum technologies and managements
skills; and
(d)   review the institutes' research and development (R&D) performance and
associated constraints in scientific and technological manpower, facilities,
and equipment as well as the overall impact of R&D on the sector in
general and the operating companies in particular;
3.           Before leaving China, the experts should convey their preliminary findings,
observations and recommendations within the area of their specialization. After leaving
China, each expert would submit, within four weeks, a final report providing their
assessment, issues, conclusions and recommendations for changes to improve the whole
system as well as individual institutes and particularly:
(a)   a brief comparison between the Chinese and worldwide higher level
petroleum education, particularly institutes, universities and related
facilities, with which the experts are associated;
(b)   a outline of major problems, and issues facing the petroleum institutes in
their efforts of achieving a more highly integrated educational system;
(c)   specific programs to upgrade the capability of teaching and training
personnel with the objective of producing professional manpower that can
be technologically competitive in the international oil and gas industry;
(d)   detailed recommendations to update the educational programs to reflect the
most recent advanced and sophisticated technological developments;
(e)   recommendations for short and medium-term overseas training for about 100
faculty members and 150 teachers, including exchange programs to be
associated with relevant Chinese projects;
(f)   requirements to initiate, develop and strengthen sustainable collaborative
relationship, including specific exchange programs, with worldwide known
petroleum institutes and universities;
(g)   procedures to revitalize and continuously evaluate R&D programs and
projects that would contribute to technology advancements of the end-users
qualitatively and quantitatively;
(h)   detailed recommendations on developing and strengthening refresher courses
for field operational personnel that can be carried out by regional training
centers;



- 125 -                         ANNEX 5.5
(i)   suggestions on overall administration and policy of the educational system
including allowing the institutes to have more flexibility in program and
resource change; and
(j)   requirements to upgrade existing laboratory and library facilities in order to
achieve an integrated technological development and information resource
system that will serve the educational system and the Chinese oil and gas
industry;
4.           The recommendations and changes to be conveyed by the experts should
provide flexibility for their implementation, take into account a minimum disruption, and
the resources available to the petroleum institutes.
5.           The experts to be invited should be still active, preferably teaching, in
worldwide known petroleum institutes and universities. They should have extensive
experience in the required specialization.  They should also possess adequate general
knowledge about higher education and the petroleum industry.






-126-                         ANNEX 5.6
PROCUREMENT IMPROVEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.          As experienced in other Bank financed petroleum  projects in China,
procurement could be a major cause of project implementation delays. To minimize this
risk, SPA would develop the technical capability to effectively monitor its international
procurement. For this purpose, SPA recently organized a Procurement Unit to process
necessary documentation for Bank financed procurement. In order for the Unit to operate
effectively, SPA would develop adequate internal procedures. The Unit is part of the
Project Management Organization and operates independently from SPA's supply company.
It consists of 11 subunits to be specialized in different lines of equipment, materials and
services with a total work force of about 70 staff. As of now, the role of the Unit is to:
(a) finalize the technical specifications, clear them with SPA management, send them to
CNPC for final review and approval and then to the Bank for review and concurrence
before transmitting them the procurement agency (PA), which reportedly has not yet been
selected and which would be either China Machinery Corporation (CMC) or China
International Tendering Corporation (ITC); (b) interact with CNPC and PA to ensure that
CNPC's review is expedited and that PA, which is responsible for preparing the
commercial part of the bidding, complete the tender documents and issues them to bidder
with no delays; (c) carry out the evaluation of proposals received by PA, clear the
evaluation report and award proposal with SPA and then CNPC, obtain Bank's concurrence
and then have PA finalize the contract with the selected bidder; and (d) monitor and ensure
the delivery of goods to end users including preparation of necessary customs clearance
documentation and inland transportation.
Major Issues
2.          Procurement process involves 6 different levels of review and approval and
which are the District (Regional), SPA's procurement unit (Chengdu), SPA's management
(Chengdu), CNPC (Beijing), the State Planning Commission (Beijing), the State Council
(Beijing), and the procurement agency (Beijing). Obtaining the various approvals, not
including documents preparation, appears to be a lengthy process, requiring, based on
recent experience, 6 to 8 months. Separately, SPA has very limited knowledge of
international competitive bidding (ICB). Further, the Procurement Unit would be better
off to start with a small number of subunits and staff that can be increased as needs arise.
If maintained as of now, the Unit management would have difficulties to ensure
coordination and clarity of responsibility within the subunits.



- 127 -                        ANNEX 5.6
3.          To develop the necessary procurement cabability, SPA would require an
individual consultant with adequate experience in procurement for petroleum projects and
capable of introducing new skills. The consultant would advise SPA in all matters related
to procurement, including assisting SPA to:
(a)   organize  the procurement unit with  definition  and  description  of
responsibilities of the subunits;
(b)   adapt to  SPA's  international  procurement  requirements  (through
International Competitive Bidding [ICB] and Limited International Bidding
[LIB]) and where appropriate to local procurement requirements (through
Local Competitive Bidding [LCB]), the Model Bidding Documents
specifically prepared by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with Bank's
Procurement Guidelines;
(c)   develop, where necessary, for use with the adapted Model Bidding
Documents, bid evaluation criteria specific to gas field equipment;
(d)   prepare annual procurement plan and related budget;
(e)   develop adequate decision making procedures and delegation of authority by
which the number of approval levels is reduced, if possible to one within
SPA and to the minimum possible within the other agencies;
(f)   prepare equipment technical specifications based on relevant performance
and characteristics rather than supplier catalogs in order to attract a
maximum of competition;
(g)   select appropriate methods of procurement to be used for each package (ICB
and LIB) and identify potential bidders for LIB;
(h)   develop a procurement schedule allowing reasonable time for each step but
resulting in a maximum number of contracts awarded within the first quarter
of 1994 calendar year;
(i)    monitor progress of the entire procurement process, particularly within the
various government agencies in Beijing, respond to requests for
clarifications from these agencies as well as from bidders, establish bid
evaluations procedures, expedite bid evaluation and following steps leading
up to final contract signature, establish L/Cs and prepare customs clearance
and inland transportation;
(j)   establish quality control criteria and procedures for monitoring standards;
(k)   prepare annual procurement training plans, including organization of
training courses, seminars and short (1 to 2 days) presentations covering but



- 128-                          ANNEX 5.6
not limited to Bank-'s procurement policies, international petroleum
equipment markets and their related developments, sources of information
about international market prices and trends are discussed; and
(1)    extend the experience gained by the Procurement Unit to SPA's regional and
central supply (procurement) companies to ensure quality and uniformity of
procurement with due regard to the desirable and necessary degree of
decentralization.
Arrangements for the Consultant
4.           The consultant is expected to be working on a continous basis with the
Procurement Unit, preferably in the Unit's offices, for at least one and half years,
attending full procurement cycle for the first 4 or 5 major supply contracts and 2 or 3
service contracts.






- 129-                         ANNEX 5.7
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Introduction
1.          Environmental benefits of the Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation
Project would include the displacement of some 2.9 million tons per year of coal
equivalent, thus reducing greenhouse gases, particulate and sulfur dioxide significantly.
Nevertheless, there are a range of environmental issues which will be addressed as part of
this project. These tend to be site specific confined to areas where the gas is being
developed, collected, compressed and purified. There are also a range of environmental
issues which affect the system as a whole. These include formation water in some of the
old fields, and the presence of hydrogen sulfide which causes corrosion and safety hazards
leading to potential leaks. On the one hand, since the SPA gas systems in Sichuan
Province are confined to rural or agricultural areas, environmental issues generally do not
stress urban areas as does coal burning. Nevertheless, a number of problems have been
reported where gas with a hydrogen sulfide content far above the standard has been
released into the distribution system and could potentially cause a major accident because
of corroded pipes. Current studies carried out under this project have pointed this out and
have proposed mitigation measures which will be incorporated into the project.
2.           Since the exact locations for construction of the project components have not
been finalized, only the basic mitigation measures for each component of the project have
been stipulated. Once the specific engineering details are finalized, a detailed program of
mitigating measures will be produced along with site-specific environmental assessments.
The following list of potential environmental issues will need to be monitored during
project implementation and operation. All are addressed in the environmental impact
assessment (EIA) report:
(a)   Seismic Exploration-storage, transport and handling of explosives and
detonators;
(b)   Drilling-safety from accidental blowouts, wastewater from drilling mud
treatment and equipment and site cleaning, groundwater puncturing and
contamination, air pollution from diesel exhaust gases, dewatered waste
drilling mud;
(c)   Well Gathering Stations-condensate containing volatiles and toxins,
formation wastewater;



- 130-                          ANNEX 5.7
(d)    Gas Purification-stack gas containing SO2, small amounts of wastewaters
containing amines and formation wastewater, ashes from sludge treatment,
waste oils and lubricants, safety issues;
(e)    Pipelines-leaks, potential resettlement and compensation issues, cultural
and biodiversity issues;
(f)    Compressor Station-air pollution from engines, gas leakage, small amount
of wastewater waste oils; and
(g)    Work-over Operations-wastewater containing acids and potential safety
issues.
Land Acquisition and Relocation
3.           The project will require about 700 hectares on a temporary basis and 190
hectares on a permanent basis. All of the required land is used for agricultural purposes.
A larger area will be required in the vicinity of pipelines as a safety zone, where no houses
will be allowed. Site selection is sufficiently flexible to account for safety and social
criteria. After public consultation, site selection may be changed according to the
preferences of local people. Concentrations of people, small villages, or intensive land use
forms such as small industrial facilities, will always be avoided in site selection. Single
farm houses will be avoided as much as possible; however, this may be difficult in the
safety zones of pipelines in more populated areas. This procedure is outlined in Chapter
12 of the Environmental Assessment (EA) report in the project file.
4.           In China, farmers are not legal owners of their land in the sense that they
may sell it for market prices. However, their other rights are comparable. There are
procedures for compensation and resettlement laid down in national and provincial
legislation. In Sichuan, payment is based on the productivity in recent years of the
occupied lands. The compensation for assets is negotiated by local or regional authorities.
Relocation allowance is provided for farmers moving to other fields but not having to move
to another residence and is based on previous income. If insufficient land is available to
compensate the farmer, the local government is obliged to employ the former farmer. In
the case of resettlement of farmers, SPA will have the legal obligation to construct new
houses and find new jobs. After consultation with affected parties and negotiation with the
provincial government, and approval of the compensation and resettlement agreement, all
payments are made directly to the land owners. Compensation for land is generally made
on a land-for-land basis. For temporary land use, compensation is based on previous
production. It is estimated that no more than 10 families will be resettled for all project
components. SPA has a procedure in place which it has been using for some years to
compensate farmers for the permanent and temporary use of their land.



- 131 -                        ANNEX 5.7
Environmental Assessment
5.           Two  TCC-financed  international  consultants  helped  develop  the
envirornental assessment for the project in cooperation with the Research Institute of
Natural Gas Technology and the Environment Department of SPA. The environmental
assessment was reviewed and endorsed by the Asia Technical Department of the Bank.
As part of the environmental assessment process, mitigating measures for expected impacts
have been developed, as well as a component of institution building and training. The
detailed environmental action plan is in the project file.
Hazardous Materials Management
6.           Seismic exploration will involve the use of explosives, which could present
an explosion hazard. The wells, flow-lines and gathering stations involve handling natural
gas, which presents a flammability and explosion hazard as well. Some of the old gas
fields, of which two would be rehabilitated under the proposed project produce substantial
quantities of formation water, often containing hydrocarbons in the form of emulsion. In
addition, a large quantity of the natural gas contains up to 6 percent hydrogen sulfide
which is a toxic and explosive gas. Where this danger exists, gas flaring systems will be
installed. The vented gas can be ignited and the hydrogen sulfide is burned to produce
oxides of sulfur (SOx), which will disperse downwind.
7.          In order to avoid accidents a hazard assessment has been performed for each
of the elements of the gas system based on a conservative scenario using the largest sizes,
highest pressures and maximum effect distances for all possible cases of releases under
worst weather conditions, in accordance with the procedures given in the World Bank
Technical Paper No.55, Techniques for Assessing Industrial Hazards. Safety of the
rehabilitation and extension of the transmission line has been addressed by the PRIF-
financed preinvestmnent study .
Safety: Design, Operation and Management
8.           SPA has safety groups in several levels of the organization and in all
operational units as well as rules and procedures for many of the safety objectives covering
operations, explosions, and fire hazards, as well as maintenance. SPA uses Chinese and
international codes and standards in the design of processes and equipment. SPA facilities
are equipped with hazard detection and disaster management systems such as gas detectors
and firefighting equipment at all drilling production and processing locations; hydrogen
sulfide detectors at high hydrogen sulfide drilling sites, well sites, gathering stations, and
the desulfurization plant. Safety zones for dwellings are maintained around potentially
dangerous locations and a cautious selection is made for locations of installations, as well
as routing for pipelines and the transportation of explosives.



- 132-                         ANNEX 5.7
SPA Environmental Management Organization
9.          In 1975, SPA set up an Environmental Protection Department. The SPA
subordinate organizations set up their own environmental protection sections and
environmental monitoring stations. There are five subordinate organizations involved in
the proposed project. All environmental departments operate under the final responsibility
of the Environmental Protection Committee, which is organized under a vice president of
SPA. Each subordinate organization operates in a specific topographic area or field of
operations, usually with many operational sites. On each of these sites, personnel are
appointed with responsibilities for environmental affairs.
Environmental Monitoring in SPA
10.         In 1975, SPA set up a central monitoring and scientific research station
operating under the responsibility of the central environmental protection department.
Each subordinate organization also has an environrnental monitoring station. Long-term
and annual environmental monitoring plans are developed at the central and subordinate
level. The monitoring includes regular sampling and documentation of accidental
discharges of SPA operations and other relevant environmental quality parameters. The
monitored  enviromnental parameters correspond  to the environmental regulatory
framework. The central environmental monitoring station also carries out environmental
impact assessments and measurements to establish baseline conditions.  The on-site
monitoring stations do the actual sampling at different SPA operation sites, usually with
portable equipment. The central SPA monitoring station reports quarterly in writing to the
Central Environmental Protection Department of SPA. SPA monitoring facilities consist
of one central and 18 on-site monitoring stations which have at their disposal sampling and
analysis equipment. The total number of environmental staff in SPA is about 469, with
292 in environmental monitoring. While the available equipment is adequate to monitor
the environmental effects of the proposed project, most of the methods are backward and
should be updated and automated; these provisions would be included under the project.
11.         SPA has been monitoring pollutants in wastewater and waste gas throughout
the process of natural gas production (drilling, production, stimulation measures, gas
gathering, purification and transmission) since 1978. In addition, ambient air, surface
water, soil, noise and ecological parameters near SPA's natural gas production districts
have been monitored as well. The Environmental Monitoring Plan drafted for the project
is not significantlv different from existing procedures.
Environmental Issues and Mitigation
12.         Summaries of mitigation techniques planned for the major environmental
issues identified during the EA process follow. More detailed explanations can be found
in the EIS, Chapters 7, 8, 9 and the environmental monitoring plan, Chapter 11.
(a)   Measures Against Gas Leakage.  The first line of action against gas
leakage is the quality control and testing of the system as constructed. Next



- 133 -                          ANNEX 5.7
is the control of the quality of the natural gas entering the trunk line to the
requirements of pipeline transmission in order to prevent corrosion of the
interior of the lines and associated equipment. Exterior corrosion measures
will also be included for the long distance transmission lines and associated
systems. The system will be equipped with leak detection instruments and
the producing wells, gathering stations, pressure boosting stations, and
purification plants will be equipped with methane and hydrogen sulfide
detectors and automatic alarm  devices.   Management guidelines will
stipulate complete and detailed operation regulations and maintenance
protocols, as well as routine inspections.
(b)    Solid U'aste Management. Solid waste will be generated from drilling,
pigging, work-overs, gas production, and gas purification operations.
Measures to manage solid waste will include paving of well sites with rock
cuttings, use of a secure landfill for cuttings and waste mud, incineration of
sludge from wastewater treatment, transfer of condensate and oil from
skimmers to a refinery, and solidification of waste drilling muds.
(c)    Groundwater Protection.  Groundwater aquifers can be contaminated
during drilling operations. Measures to prevent groundwater contamination
include use of casings in wells to seal off aquifer areas, improvement of
well completion and cementing processes, paving of well site with cement,
selection of appropriate reinjection wells, and transportation of wastewater
away from the site with pipelines.
(d)    Wastewater Management. Wastewater from drilling operations will be
treated    and  the environmental management of operations will be
strengthened. Formation water will be reinjected in appropriate injection
wells or treated to meet discharge standards for disposal in surface waters.
(e)    Gas Emissions from Pressure Boosting Stations. Only purified (hydrogen
sulfide reduced) natural gas will be used in the system. Air emissions will
be via a stack outside the station. Waste gas from the purification plant will
be treated for sulfur recovery and an incineration process will be used prior
to discharge through a stack with a designed height of 100 meters in order
to effect dispersion of the SOx. The wastewater from the gas purification
plant will be partially recycled and partially treated by concentration and
incineration. The wastewater purification plant will use a biological
oxidation process. Management guidelines will be strengthened in order to
assure that treated water meets specifications before discharge into the
Changjiang (Yangtze River).



SICIIUAN NATURAI, GAS D)EVELOPM ENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN SUMMARY
1.0      Site-Specific     Regulations of the Peoples Republic of China concerning new building, reconstruction and extension projects require
Environmental    that SPA execute for7ts for environmental assessments for new drilling, production, stimulation wells, and natural gas
Assessment       gathering networks. For new natural gas pressure boosling stations, long distance natural gas transmission pipelines,
Development      natural gas purification plants, and refinery and petrochemical factories, reports of environmental assessment must be
completed before itie engineering design phase. The central monitoring and scientific research station of SPA holds a
qualification certificate for environmental impact assessment in China. The Environmental Protection Depariment of
SPA carries out the preliminary investigation and then submits to the Sichuan Provincial Environmental Protection
Bureau and the local environmental protection department where the construction project is located for approval. Once
approval is obtained, design work can begin.
2.0 Air Pollution Control   A system of gas well pressure controlling techniques is employed in order to avoid well blow outs. Well head control
2.1 Blow-Outs              techniques including flaring of the open flow have been developed.
2.2 Gas System Leakage    The major production elements in which natural gas leakage is likely to occur are gas transmission and distribution
systems, gas gathering stations, and production wells. The causes of leakage are mainly the lack of strict control of
natural gas quality, which in lurn leads to corrosion of pipelines and equipment, and finally, leakage. The following
mitigation measures will be adopted:
* strict adherence to design requirements for quality and gas tightness of all gas handling equipment and piping;
* strict enforcement of engineering quality requirements for pressure tests and leakage tests in the various components
of the system;
* control of the quality of natural gas entering the trunk line by regulating hydrogen sulfide content, carbon dioxide
content, and free water;
* corrosion prevention of equipment and pipelines will be achieved through cathodic protection and coating of the
external walls of long distance transmission lines; corrosion prevention techniques will be used for the internal walls
as well, including applications of coatings and injection of corrosion inhibitors;
* corrosion prevention at natural gas producing wells will include injection of gas well corrosion inhibitors;
* corrosion prevention at gathering stations, pressure boosting stations, and purification plants will include coating
applied to equipment for corrosion prevention and the injection of corrosion inhibitors into the equipment for internal
protection;
* strengthening of management technique. The purification plant must guarantee the quality of the purified gas
meeting the requirement of pipeline transmissions. A complete and detailed operation, regulations, and maintenance
systems program will be developed for natural gas production, gathering, transmission, and purification. Routine   >
inspections and checks will be included; and                                                                       Z
* The equipment necessary for detecting leaks will be installed on the long distance transmission pipelines. The      P1
production wells, gathering stations, pressure boosting stations, and purification plants will be equipped with methane
and hydrogen sulfide automatic detectors and alarm systems.                                                        Lu



2.3   Purification Plant Gas A modified claus process for sulfur recovery will be installed. The tail gas from the sulfur recovery unit will bc
Treatment             incinerated and discharged through a stack height of 100 m. Accidental discharges will be burned through a flare
before being vented. The flare will be equipped with a sensitive, automatic ignition device in addition to the pilot
flame. In order to strengthen management, equipment necessary for monitoring and controlling will be obtained.
2.4   Gathering Stations    Only purified natural gas will be used to fuel the gas turbines in order to reduce the amount of oxides of sulfur
and Pressure Boost-   discharged. In case of accidental emergency discharges, the natural gas will be flared prior to discharge. In order to
ing Stations          ensure ignition the venting flare will be equipped with sensitive automatic ignition device.
3.0   Protection Measures
for Surface Water
3.1   Drilling Wastewater   Drilling wastewater consists primarily of washwater from drilling equipment tools and the well site during the drilling
operations. The major components are chemical oxygen demand (COD), suspended solids and petroleum compounds.
SPA will treat drilling wastewater with oil skimming, sedimentation, oil water separator, flocculation precipitation, and
solid/liquid separation. After treatment, the water will be sent to a water storage pond for reuse or discharge. Use of
drilling mud systems containing heavy metals will be strictly forbidden. Sludge produced by the wastewater treatment
system will be dumped in a lined pond and covered with earth. Since the drilling operations will be of short duration
and high mobility, the drilling wastewater equipment will be designed to be skid-mounted.
3.2   Formation Water       Reinjection of formation waters will be reinjected in selected geological formations through specially conceived disposal
wells. In field areas where reinjection is not possible, formation water will be treated to meet discharge standards prior
to discharge into surface water. Since the chloride content of formation water is high, SPA forbids the discharge of
formation water onto farmland. Formation water will be transferred via pipeline to assigned sites for discharge lo
surface water. Reinjection wells will be chosen for permeability of the formation and isolation from aquifer systems.
For formation water that is to be discharged to surface water, treatment will consist of chemical oxidation and
precipitation in the case of high sulfide content. Formation waters with high chemical oxygen demand and high levels
of other pollutants will require more advanced treatment technologics, which would be provided under the project.
3.3   Wastewater from       Wastewater produced during maintenance functions will be separated from process wastewater. The different
Natural Gas Purifica- wastewater streams will be separated in order that separate appropriate treatment processes can be employed.
tion Plant
3.4   Waste Liquid from     Work-over fluids will be collected in lined pits and treated by neutralization and sedimentation. Residue and sludge will
Well Work-overs       be disposed in a lined pit on site.                                                                                         Z
m
X'



4.0   Soil and Groundwater
Protection
4.1   Soil Protection
*  Clister drilling will be adopted in order to reduce the area of occupied land.
*  Rock cuttings produced during drilling operations will be washed to remove greasy dirt. Mud caked by solid/liquid
separation of the mud which cannot be reused, residue from drilling wastewater treatment, and solid waste from
pigging operations will be disposed into a lined pits and covered with earth.
*  Sludge from the purification plants will be concentrated, dehydrated, and incinerated.
*  Condensate will be sent to a refinery for reprocessing.
4.2    Protection of Ground- *  Casing will be used in the drilling operation to seal off aquifers.
water                  0  Well completion and well cementing processes will be improved to ensure isolation of the well bore and the water
bearing strata.
*  The ground surface at the well drilling sites and other construction sites will be paved with cement in order to
prevent percolation of contaminants to the shallow aquifers.
*  Reinjection wells will be selected with greatest depth and best sealing of water bearing layers. Transportation of
wastewater from the wastewater drain to the receiving water body will be accomplished with pipelines.
5.0   Safety Measures
5.1   Seismic Exploralions  *  Explosives will be protected with plastic covers in order to prevent poisoning and other accidents.
*  Explosives and detonators will be stored and transported separately.
*  Operators must be certified before going on duty and will wear antistatic clothes.
5.2.1  Drilling and Work-    0  All drilling and work-over rigs will be equipped with adequate blow out preventer (BOP) equipment.
over Operations-       0  The density of drilling muds will be carefully controlled. Well controlling facilities, including monitoring and
Safety Measures for       treating equipment and manifolds for gas well pressure control, will be installed.
Blowout Prevention    0  The drilling operators will be well trained in individual responsibilities and will be familiar with well control
operations, as well as well shut-off procedures.
5.2.2  Fire Prevention       *  Strict firc prevention codes will be enforced, diesel exhaust pipes will be water cooled, and maintained clean,
exhaust pipes will be set at a safe distance from the well head. Necessary firefighting equipment and materials will
be on hand at the drill site.
5.2.3  Hydrogen Sulfide      *  Windsocks will be installed at the well sites.                                                                              Z
Poisoning Prevention  *  Automatic monitoring and alarm systems will be installed at the well sites in several directiols.                           trl
*  Drilling operators will be equipped with personal protective apparatus and portable hydrogen sulfide monitoring and
alarm instruments.
-.1



5.2.4    Producing Wells   0       Safety valves above and below the ground surface will be installed at the well head.
*      Methane and hydrogen sulfide monitoring and alarm systems will be installed.
*      All necessary firefighuing equiptnent and materials will be on hand.
5.2.5    Well Work-overs  *        Zoning of the high pressure and low pressure areas will be made before the well work-over operations take
place.
*      Overpressure protection devices will be installed.
*      Check valves will be installed to prevent backflow of acid liquid.
*      Pressure tests of the high pressure manifold will be carried out prior to each eperating cycle.
*      A sealed acid injection system will be adopted.
*      Operators will be equipped with gas masks and acid protective clothing.
*      All necessary firefighting equipment and materials will be on hand at the site.
5.3      Pipelines          0      The pipeline will be laid underground to a depth of 0.8 to 1.2 m.
*      Protective casings will be installed where pipelines cross highways.
5.3.1    Safety Measures   *       Pipelines will be buried below the stable layer of riverbeds at river crossing.
in Pipeline Laying *     Routing of the pipeline will avoid zones of dense population and environmentally sensitive areas.
5.3.2    Safety Protection   *     Safety valves will be installed between the well head and the first-stage throttle valve.
Measures          0      Safety valves and check valves will be mounted at the starting ends and the terminals of the connecting
pipelines.
*      The safety system of the main connecting pipeline will include:
(a) a valve house sited at each 10 to 15 km interval along the main connecting pipeline; automatic cutoff valves,
vent valves, venting flares, will be installed in these houses
(b) in the case of a pipeline rupture, cutoff valves, both upstream and downstream of the section affected will close
automatically; downstream vent valves will be actuated to vent the gas remaining in the fractured section of the
pipeline as quickly as possible. All natural gas so vented is sent to the flare for incineration.
5.4   Gathering Stations    *  Automatic safety valves and regulating valves will be installed. In the case of a pipeline rupture, the gas supply will
be cut off. Gas escape lines will also be installed.
*  Fire and explosion prevention measures will include explosion-prove electrical equipment, prohibition of smoking
and open flame, methane monitoring and alarm systems, and the maintenance of necessary firefighting equipment
and materials.                                                                                                         z
*  Measures to prevent hydrogen sulfide poisoning will include: venting of discharged natural gas to an escape line to    7
be burned prior to discharge and equipping personnel with personnel protection equipment including gas masks, and      t
the installation of hydrogen sulfide monitoring and alarm systems.                                                     x



5.5   Pressure Boosting      Pressure boosting stations will have the following safety measures installed:
Stations
* Pressure release valves.
* Automatic safety valve, cutoff valve, and automatic inierlock protection device.
* Air coolers on compressors.
* Natural gas vents in the case of overpressure for maintenance operations through a venting pipeline to a flare of a
nearby gathering station to be burned and discharged.
* Fuel gas for gas turbines will be purified natural gas.
* Fire prevention and explosion:
(a)        Area within the wall around the pressure boosting station is a fire and explosion prevention zone.
(b)        Adoption of closed explosion-proof electrical equipment.
(c)        Structure of the compressor room and pressure boosting stations is built open and semi-open.
(d)        Multipoint hydrogen sulfide and methane monitoring and alarm systems.
(e)        The necessary fireFighting equipment and materials will be maintained on-hand.
(f)        Operators will be certified through examination before taking up post. Personnel on post must wear
working clothes appropriate for explosion hazard areas.
5.6   Purification Plant     0  Proper plant siting and a reasonable arrangement of production equipment, zoning of high pressure, high
temperature, fire prevention and explosion prevention areas                                                              w
* Controlling system and facilities to ensure the safe production will be adopted in the plant design:
(a)        the controlling system will consist of alarms, monitors, automatic controls, interlocking cutoffs, and
power-off protection
(b)        facilities will include direct reading instruments and explosion-proof electrical equipment, isolation
facilities for toxic gases, double source power supply, automatic switch for standby power supply
*  Production management procedures will include detailed technical documents for safe production including operating
regulations, operating parameter manual and a safety manual
* A safe production management system will be adopted including safe production responsibility system, fire
prohibition system and firefighting system.
6.0   Noise Mitigation
Measures
6.1    Pressure Boosting     Control of the noise source at the pressure boosting station will include equipment, design and noise prevention
Station               equipment. A sound isolation room for persons on duty will be provided. Pressure boosting stations will be built in
districts with comparatively sparse populations, where sound insulation screens could be formed easily.                      z
6.2   Drilling               Noise prevention measures at drill sites will include control of diesel engine noise, sound insulation covers, and a sound
proof room for persons on duty.



7.0      Monitoring         Since 1978, SPA has established an environmental monitoring station network at different organizational levels.
Monitoring of selected pollutants in wastewater and waste gas discharged through the whole production process of SPA
7.1      SPA Safety        inclides drilling operations, production stimulation measures, gas gathering, purification and transmission. Ambient air,
Organization      surface water, local soils, the noise environment, and ecological parameters have also been monitored by SPA.
7.1.2    Safety Measures   In order to mitigate the effects of accidental hazards, the safety department of SPA will carry out the inspections of the
following safcty mcasures: seismic exploration, drilling, natural gas well stations, natural gas gathering and
transmission, natural gas purification, and natural gas transmission and distribution.
7.2      Environmental      Details of existing environmental monitoring equipment are shown in the environmental assessment, page 11-8.
Monitoring
7.2.1    Equipment
7.2.2    Environmental    Details of environmental monitoring frequencies are shown in the environmental assessment, chapter I1l, pages 8
Monitoring        through II.
Frequencies
7.2.3    Organization for   SPA has established an environmental monitoring organization. SPA organizations at different levels have set up an
Environmental    atmospheric monitoring laboratory, water quality monitoring laboratory, physical monitoring laboratory, ecological
Monitoring        monitoring laboratory, technical department and instrument laboratory. Currently, SPA has a group of 469 persons
specialized in the environmental field, of which 177 are engaged in environmental protection management and 292 in
environmental monitoring.
7.2.4    Reporting          The Environmental Protection Department of SPA submits environmental monitoring reports to the Sichuan Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau quarterly and environmental quality reports on pollutant discharge annually. The
subsidiary environmental protection section of SPA submits reports on environmental monitoring work to local
environmental protection bureaus quarterly and reports on ambient environmental quality and pollutant discharge
annually.
7.2.5 Actions Taken         The Environmental Protection Department of SPA generates environmental protection plans, environmental monitoring
plans, and environmental protection mitigation plans on the basis of the reports on environmental work, environmental
quality, and pollutant discharge. The Sichuan provincial and local environmental protection bureaus stipuliate
requirements on environmental protection work for SPA and SPA's subordinate enterprises and also set rewards and
penalties.
nri
8.0      Institution Build-  The following program for institution building technical assistance and training will be put into effect during the project
ing and Training   implementation.



8.1       Waste Treatment  Advanced techniques for treating wastewater, solid waste residues (from drilling and well work-over), from oil and gas
ficlds including use of international consultants for techniques in solid/liquid separation of oil and gas wastewater,
techniques for nonhazardous treatment of pollutants and solid waste residue disposal, as well as groundwater
contamination prevention.
8.2.1     Reinjection Tech-  Technical assistance in improved techniques for reinjection of formation water, including intemational expertise on the
niques             techniques and selection of receiving layers for formation water reinjection, the design of reinjection wells, and the
pretreatment of formation water before injection.
8.2.2     Reinjection        Improvement of techniques in environmental impact assessment of formation water reinjection, including technical
Assessment         assistance in the selection of calculation models for the effect on groundwater quality caused by the diffusion of
pollutants after reinjection.
8.3       Groundwater        Improvement of techniques in environmental monitoring of groundwater pollution, including technical assistance in the
Pollution         selection of optimum sampling points, monitoring process, monitoring instruments and modeling of groundwater
contamination caused by formation water reinjection.
8.4       High Sulfur Gas   Improvements of techniques for environmental monitoring in exploitation of high sulfur natural gas fields, including
Fields            technical assistance in creating a regional environmental monitoring network for high sulfur natural gas field exploitation
(drilling, gas production, gathering, and transmission), items to be monitored, monitoring processes, selection of
monitoring instruments, transmission and processing of monitoring data with computerized techniques.
8.5       Purification Plant  Technical assistance in techniques of environmental monitoring of gas purification (desulfurization) plant, including
automatic monitoring of tail gas discharge from the purification plant, automatic monitoring of atmospheric pollution,
and automatic monitoring system for wastewater discharges.
8.6.1     Training          Technical training for qualified personnel to meet the requirements of environmental protection management in a
modernized natural gas production system, including training of technical personnel in environmental protection
management, environmental pollution prevention, and pollution control engineering, environmental monitoring,
environmental impact assessment, and on-site environmental protection management. Technical assistance in state-of-
the-art techniques used in oil and gas fields would be required from abroad.
8.6.2     Monitoring         The available equipment in SPA should be augmenied in order to undertake the environmental monitoring program.
Equipment         The equipment is currently outdated and insufficient. In order to operate the new equipment, technical assistance will
be required in training of personnel.                                                                                        Z
X



9.0      Organi7ational
Arrangements
9.1      Mitigation Pro-   In order to strengthen environmental protection management in natural gas production and mitigation of environmental
gram             impacts, SPA will issue a mitigation program annually on the basis of production schedule, reports on environmental
protcction work, and the result of environmental monitoring assessments of the previous year. Such programs will
include major pollution source control programs, environmental monitoring program, environmental protection, audit
program, and environmental management work program.
9.2      Site Inspections   Based on the miligation program, the Environmental Protection Department of SPA will audit subordinate units of SPA
at regular intervals (quarterly) each year to inspect progress in the mitigation program and adjust the mitigation program
if necessary.
9.3      Monitoring of the The Environmental Protection Department of SPA will summarize the accomplishment of the mitigation program and
Mitigation Plan    draw up a list for commendation of subordinate units according to progress in accomplishing the mitigation program.
Rewards and commendation may be granted after reporting to and being approved by the Environmental Protection
Committee of SPA.
10.0     Resettlement     In this project, generally, there will be no resettlement. In the case there is, SPA would negotiate with the people
affected and make arrangements based on regulations of the government, including the construction of new houses and
10.1     SPA Resettlement location of substitute employment. New houses will have the same size but better quality than the old houses.
Policy
z
z
mr



10.2     Procedures        The projcct will occupy some land. SPA will confer and negotiate with land owners, based on the following procedures:
*     Sites will be selected according to site selection principles and safety standards.
*     SPA will solicit opinion of affected parties
Negotiations: SPA will negotiate and confer with local governments (including farmers) on land compensation and
resettlement of affected parties.
Department in Charge: The project construction management department of SPA is in charge of resettlement and
rehabilitation. The subsidiary production departments of SPA are responsible for the compensation of land acquisition.
Monitoring Agencies: Supervision and examination organizations for land use and land requisition are the local
government, the land management departments of both the local government and Sichuan provincial government.
Consultation: The project construction management department of SPA often goes to the subsidiary production
departments to examine the land use and acquisition process, and has a special department to collect opinions and views
of affected parties.
Reporting: SPA will annually submit land acquisition and compensation summaries to the supervisory and examining
departments mentioned above. The supervising and examining departments will conduct regular and unscheduled
inspections of land use and acquisition every year. These departments will also collect opinion from affected parties and
penalize those people who illegally occupy land as well as confiscating the illegally occupied lands.
Public Opinion: SPA has made investigation into public opinion regarding the environmental impact of the project sites.
The local people have fully understood the project. The opinions of people in two counties of east Sichuan area
(population 860,000 and 931,000 respectively) are included in the environmental assessment report, Annex 3, Chapter
12.



- 143 -                        ANNEX 5.8
INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximative                                      Anticipated
Dates                                             Skill
Activity                      Requirements    Staff-weeks
6/94  1.    Review overall project implementa-     Engineer,            15
tion progress, including procurement  Financial Analyst,
of goods and services, and consultant    Economist,
mobilization; project cost and finan-  Environmental
cing plan; progress of technical       Specialist
assistance and training program.
2.    Review progress of Sichuan gas pric-
ing and allocation reform action plan.
3.    Review progress of restructuring
study/pilot implementation.
4.    Review SPA's finances.
FY1995-96  same as above, two supervisions
per year                             same as above        30
FY1997-98  same as above, two supervisions
per year                             same as above        30
FY1998-    same as above, two supervisions
2001        per year                             same as above         20






- 144-                                    ANNEX  6.1
Sichuan Petroleum Administration (SPA)
Consolidated Income Statements
(in Million Yuan)
1988        1989          1990         1991         1992
Revenues
Gas Production                                830          915           892          977        1,132
Gas Transmission                               195         207           196          227          227
Gas Purification                               25          128           132          169          264
Other Products                                164          246          218          277           275
Total Revenues                         1,214        1,496        1,438        1,651        1,897
Less Sales Tax                          (70)         (88)         (85)          (97)         (98)
Net Sales Revenues               1,144        1.408        1,353        1,554        1,799
Expenses
Raw materials                                   88          123          119          155          167
Power and fuel                                  23           33           25           34           45
Wages                                          138          162          153          236          257
Basic depreciation                            216          202          264           313          402
Overhaul cost                                  173          198          236          239          240
Exploration cost                               256          214          214          257          241
Deferred cost                                   66           70           72           72           72
Administrative Expense                         106          128          133          186          220
Othcr Expense a/                               (60)         (30)         (60)         (30)          61
Total Operating Expenses                1,005        1,100        1,156        1,463        1,706
Operating locome                                  138          309          197           91           93
Interest Expense                            3            8            17           11          35
Net Income                       136         301           179           80           58
a. Nc4 of non-operating income.



- 145 -                                  ANNEX  6.1
SPA Operating Profit Margin
Yuan/mcm
1988         1989          1990          1991          1992
Average Price net of sales tax
City gate price                                170.8         192.9         187.9         205.0         243.5
Well-head                                     132.2         138.3         131.3         142.6        164.5
Purification                                    4.3         20.5          22.4          26.3          42.0
T&D                                            34.3          34.0          34.1          36.1          36.9
Total Unit cost                                149.8         146.8         160.6         191.6         212.4
Production                                    124.8         121.7         133.3         167.2        180.2
Purification                                    8.3           8.5           9.9          11.9          14.5
T&D                                            16.7          16.6          17.5          12.4          17.7
Op. Profit Margin                               21.0          46.0          27.2          13.4          31.1
Production                                      7.4          16.7          (2.0)        (24.7)        (15.7)
Purification                                   (4.0)         12.0          12.6          14.4         27.5
T&D                                            17.6          17.4          16.6          23.7          19.3



- 146-                                  ANNEX 6.1
Sichuan Petroleum Administration (SPA)
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in Million Yuan)
1988        1989        1990         1991         1992
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                                          95          102         130          111          117
Account receivable                           225          249         227          196         236
Advance to supplicr                            14           5           3           28          48
Inventorics                                  697          867        1,007         959        1,170
Total Current Assets               1,031        1,223       1,367        1,294       1,570
Fixed Assets
Fixed AsseAs                                  4,236       4,967        5,438       6,538        7,589
Lcss: accumulated depreciation               (2,318)     (2,518)      (2,729)     (2,919)      (3,295)
Net Fixed Assets                        1,918        2,449       2,708        3,619       4,294
Construction in Progress                      1,331        1,703       2,242       2,413        2,795
Unamortized Dryhole Costs                     1,027         958          886         814          741
Total Faxed Assets                  4,276       5,110       5,836        6,846        7,830
Special Assets                                  228         239          210         243          548
Total Assets                  5,535        6,572       7,414        8,383       9,948
Liabilities & Equity
Current liabilities
Workling Capital loan                        87          147         211         241          341
Accounts payablc                            171          262         389         374          613
Total Current Liabilities                 258         409          600         615          954
Long Term Liabilities
Domestic loans                              432          590         666          879        1,003
Forcign loans                                39          108         127          153         181
Total Long-Term Liabilities               472         697          793       1,032        1,184
Total Liabilities                   730       1,106        1,393       1,647        2,138
Equity
Working Capital Fund                        218          219         219          223         231
Fixed Fund                                 4,036       4,617        5,047       5,876        6,763
Special Fund                                551          630         754          637         815
Total Equity                      4,806        5,466       6,021        6,736       7,810
Total LiabiliLies & Equity                    5,535        6,572       7,414        8,383       9,948






- 147 -                        ANNEX 6.2
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS FOR SPA'S FINANCIAL
PROJECTIONS
Income Statement
1.          Total gas sales have been assumed to be net of SPA's self use of 9 percent
of gas production.
2.          Tariffs are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revenues would be
adequate for achieving the minimum financial performance targets (para. 6.15).
(a)   Under the break-even covenant, the minimum operating revenues of each
of SPA's major profit centers, including gas production, purification and
transmission would have to cover (i) costs directly chargeable to operations
including depreciation, exploration costs and amortization of deferred costs;
(ii) operational interest; (iii) sales and income taxes; (iv) debt repayment in
excess of the amount repayable from the provisions for depreciation; and
(v) required increase in working capital.
(b)   Under the self-financing ratio covenant, earned surplus cash available for
financing future investments has been defined as total earned cash less the
aggregate of (i) cash operating expenses; (ii) operational interest; (iii) sales
and income taxes; (iv) required increases in working capital; (v) and loan
repayments. Separately, the average annual investment program has been
defined as the average of the previous year's actual capital expenditures, the
current year's planned capital expenditures, and the next year's projected
capital expenditures.
(c)   For purposes of calculating the project financial rate of return covenant,
cash inflow has been defined as total earned cash less sales revenues derived
from the incremental production under the project, while incremental cash
outflow under the project has been defined as the aggregate of (i) total
capital expenditures; (ii) cash operating expenses; and (iii) income tax (if
any).
3.           General local inflation rates are assumed at 15 percent in 1993, 12 percent
in 1994, 9 percent per annum in 1995, 8 percent per annum in 1996, 7.2 percent per
annum in 1997, 6.5 percent per annum in 1998/99, and 6 percent in the year 2000.



- 148 -                         ANNEX 6.2
4.           Raw materials, power and fuel costs are projected to increase at 25 percent
per annum in 1993, 17.5 percent per annum in 1994, 10 percent per annum in 1995-96,
and the same rates as those of general local inflation (6 percent per annum) thereafter.
5.           Wages are projected to increase at 25 percent per annum  in 1993,
17.5 percent per annum in 1994, and 10 percent per annum thereafter. The number of
employees is expected to grow at 3 percent per annum in 1993-95, and remains constant
at 1995 level thereafter to reflect the impact of institutional restructuring and streamlining.
6.           General and administrative costs are projected to increase with general local
inflation rates.
7.           Maintenance costs include workover, down-hole services and water injection
costs, and are assumed at Y 40 per cubic meter of gas produced and an oil field decline
rate of 13.53 percent per annum. Maintenance cost of transmission assets is assumed, as
a percentage of assets, at 5 percent in 1993 decreasing to 3 percent in 1999-2000.
Maintenance cost of gas treatment and purification assets; as a percentage of assets; is
assumed at 5 percent in 1993-96, and 3.5 percent in 1997-2000. Maintenance costs of
assets used in the production of other products and services is assumed to increase at the
general local inflation rate.
8.           Exploration cost is based on the successful method whereby dry-holes are
expensed during the year of incurrence.  All geophysical expenditures and non-well
expenditures are fully expensed during the year of incurrence.  The success ratio of
exploration is assumed to remain at 52 percent (viz. 52 percent of the exploration well
drilling expenditures are assumed to be written off during the year of incurrence).
Development well drilling, including dry hole costs (with success ratio assumed to be
80 percent), are capitalized and depreciated over the life of the gas reserves.
9.           Sales tax is assumed to remain at 5.45 percent of well head gas revenues.
3.27 percent of gas transmission revenues, 5.45 percent for gas purification revenues and
an average of 5.4 percent for revenues from other products and services.
10.          Depreciation is conservatively assumed to remain at the present rates of
16.17 percent of gas production assets, 7.14 percent annum of gas transmission assets and
10 percent of gas purification assets.  However, these depreciation rates for major
categories of assets (wells, pipelines and gas purification plants) are considerably faster
than the average economic life of these assets.
11.          The amortization of pre-1988 dry-hole expenses (deferred cost) is assumed
at Y 1.14 per thousand cubic meter of gas produced annually.
12.          Nonoperating income and nonoperating expenses (include pension-related
expenditures, vocational training and other welfare related expenditures) are projected to
increase with general local inflation rates.



- 149 -                        ANNEX 6.2
13.          For income tax purposes, the portion of well-head gas price above Y
80/mcm is not considered as SPA's revenues, but earmarked as Exploration and
Development Fund. On the other hand, the actual exploration costs are not included in the
deductible expenses. Instead, the deductible expenses include a provision for "resource
utilization fee". Under the present tax rules, which are assumed to remain in the financial
forecast period, SPA would continue to report negative taxable income and income tax is
thus projected to be zero.
Funds Flow Statement
14.          Exploration and Development Special Funds and Loss compensation Special
Fund reflect the special funding arrangements between CNPC and SPA, valid until 1995.
15.          Remittances to Government represents the Energy and Transportation fund
remittance assessed at 15 percent of nonoperating income and adjustment fund remittance
assessed at 10 percent of nonoperating income.
Balance Sheet
16.          Accounts receivable is projected at an average collection period of 40 days.
17.          Advances to suppliers is projected at 10 percent of operating cost.
18.          Inventories are projected at 40 percent of the sum of capital expenditures and
operating costs.
19.          Accounts payable is projected at 10 percent the sum of capital expenditure
and operating costs.
20.          Special assets represent funds earnarked for specific uses before the July
1993 change in accounting procedure. A portion (Y 13.5 million) is added to long-term
investment and the remainder amortized over a three year period as current assets.
21.          Unamortized dry-hole costs reflect SPA's pre-1988 dry-hole expenses not
fully amortized.
22.          Unamortized bonus fund represents the current liability portion of pre-July
1993 item "special fund." It is projected to be fully amortized in three years.






-150-                           ANNEX 8 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN
PROJECT FILE
Item No.                  Description
1. Gas Reserve Assessment Study (Sproule Associates Limited)
2. SPA Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Study (Novacorp International)
3. Environmental Assessment Report (SPA and DHV)
4. Sichuan Gas Allocation and Pricing Study (NERA)
5. Working Papers: Field Geological Data, Field Well Drilling and Completion
Programs, Detailed Project Cost Estimates and Procurement Arrangements






CHARTS






-152-                                               CHART 1
PipcLinc Drp.rwmtc  |
GcepbyaicaJ Explor. Dp                     E c   c
E
T    P:tmrol um E &P
Economic Systrm Rcform Of!icc       T|Tsnm Pcttokum Admi.n
_                   Supervision Dcpartmcnt               .rdo_ P2uxieum E A                            E
Auditing DepL=mcnt                 Yi.cnohang Pctrolcum Admin              0  C
Multipie Opcrtion Department            ZhejiazrgP toIcuum Admin.
=
_InstllUtion & Equipmcnt Dept.           Anhui Pcurlcum Admni.                     E .
.E 
A                               q   Refinery & Petro Chemical Dept.         Dsanqwggui P-Lrllum Admni
)   E      -|   Gcncral AdmiristLadve OfEec   |         Changqurg Psu-laumu Admo_
-    ~ ~ ~~          ~E
C
40 E
_EnLrpnse M=agement Dcpa.tmcnten           Qinghai PNuolcum Admin.                 r- |-
0~~~~
r l          _|       ~~~~Personnel Dcparnmcnt                                         u  ue  :OEI   dan       _
Forrign Affin Dcpartment               Xing t uolum Adein.
.~  E 
M  a..,,,~~~~~~~~~LI,-Ad7
<                   j   ClpitL~~~~~r   Deptrurio entDpnct|      q H    iP.u'ulu uAdmjn. |
)  c.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OpcnUonal Ma.rlkting Dept.              Jiagsu Pitrkum Adrn.               E
_       H    ~~~Scientific Development Dept.   |    iJiamgha, Pttrleum Addon. |         --  . 
.2
5- E
Development o: Production Dept. |       Zong>ry-  Patrlcum Adrsu o
-f       Explontion Dcparment                  Sengli P:uolcum Adma.|
<  E
Financial Department                                                       a - Dag   Peuoluam Admin. |  E r
Planning Dcpartmcnt                uHuabi PetroleumAdmim  |             E
q        licobc PeUnleum Adm        L      O
J ilio Piucleum Admn ............|SZ5 
g D lno.| E
Daqing P~~ruleum Adm7n..
Li



153 -                                              T 2
GJ  Education & Training Department
Procurement Department
Production Safety Department                  Natural Gas
Research Institute
Allocation of Supply & Demand Dept.               Southwcst
>                                                 _       Mining District
Gas T & D Company
rl   Financial Department 
= 7   t    _ _   tt;  _                            _ _      ~~~~~~~~~~~South Sichuan
Y}   X                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mining District
w rt                               Planning Department_
_   >                                                 |        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Northwest |
l   1   ~Mining District
|  Measurement Department 
C                                                         Ccntrml Sichuan
r                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mining District
_   Y1  _ _    Cnemical Proceessing Dprmn 
L.~~~~~.
>                                                  _EMast Sinhuan Exploration
L------M Pradureion Departmcnt                           & Driing Company
CcEast Sichuan Gas
Production CompaLny|
CEcnvironmenLnl Department
Env_ronmental Department                   Design Institute
Telecommunication Deparment
>     |    Capital Construction Department



- 54 -                        CHART 3
2    z    4   ~~EXPERTISE UPGRADE|
2 2 H F    _  STANDARDS, CODES & MANUALS
_     -C       FIELD OPERATION TASK FORCE
-            PLANNING RESEARCH & EVALUATION
BILLING & COLLECTION     |
_ Z     =       COST ACCOUNTING
si u   1    BUDGETING & FUNDS MGT.
Z Z                     <                 TARIFFS & PRICING
O,z o  _U Z _ 5ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
STRATEGIC PLANNING
- n N   i  1REPAIRS/OVERHAUL
< @ 5   O   c   MEASURE. & PRESSURE REGULATION  |
CORROSION CONTROL
;;2  C) o:             Qj 2 3CONSTRUCTION MGT.
C                                       PLANNING & DESIGN
DISTRICT OPERATIONS
< g U              <       1  SAFETY & ENVIRON. PROTECTION
LAND ADMINSTRATION
~~~~~~~0 ~~~~~c
Ct V             U O       1     ~    ~~~ TELECOM
GAS CONTROL&DESPATCH      |
LD                      MANAG PROCUREMENT
7, z o          DCMINISTRAT'VE SERVICES
Q 4    _      CSTAFFINGMTRCVNING
a                P GRSONNEL RECORDS
2   z         DEMAND MANAGeMeNT
<                CUSTOMER SERVICE
_  > k X    _  CUSTOM ER CONVERSION
u  >    8    ~~~GAS UTILIZATION|



