                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 27062-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (CPL-37160 SCL-3716A SCPD-3716S TF-28693)

                                          ON AN

                                        IBRD LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$225 MILLION

                                          AND A

                                       GEF GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.3 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                           FOR

            THE SICHUAN GAS DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT




                                     December 22, 2003




Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Infrastructure Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 30, 2003)

               Currency Unit = RMB (Yuan)
                   RMB1.00 = US$ 0.12
                    US$ 1.00 = RMB8.26

                    FISCAL YEAR
               January 1     December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CNOOC           -   China National Offshore Oil Company
CNPC            -   China National Petroleum Company
ERR             -   Economic Rate of Return
FIRR            -   Financial Internal Rate of Return
GTMD            -   Gas Transmission and Management Department
IESM            -   Institute of Economic Systems and Management
km              -   Kilometer
MEIAO           -   Mechanical and Electrical Import and Export
                    Administration Office
MOF             -   Ministry of Finance
PCL             -   PetroChina Ltd.
PCL Southwest   -   PetroChina Southwest Oil & Gas Fields Company
PPIAF           -   Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
SAIETMEP        -   State Administration for Import and Export Trade of
                    Mechanical and Electrical Products
SCORES          -   State Council for Restructuring Economic System
SINOPEC         -   China National Petrochemical Company
SPA             -   Sichuan Petroleum Administration
WTO             -   World Trade Organization




             Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
            Country Director     Yukon Huang
             Sector Director:    Christian Delvoie
             Sector Manager      Junhui Wu
             Task Manager:       Noureddine Berrah

                                            CHINA
         SICHUAN GAS DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Legal Covenants                                                         34
Annex 9. Resettlement                                                            35




Map IBRD 32794

Project ID: P003609                                                  Project Name: SICHUAN GAS DEV &
                                                                     CONSERVATION
Global Supplemental ID: P003404 (Partially Blended)                  Supp. Name: SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON
Team Leader: Noureddine Berrah                                       TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                           L/C/TF Number: CPL-37160; SCL-3716A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3716S
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

       Sector/subsector: Oil and gas (100%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Climate
                            change (P); Other financial and private sector development (P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 03/31/1991                                      Effective: 12/14/1994                12/14/1994
     Appraisal: 05/30/1993                                         MTR: 11/16/1998                  11/16/1998
     Approval: 03/17/1994                                       Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



   Supplemental Name: SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                                        L/C/TF Number: TF-28693

       Sector/subsector: Oil and gas (95%); Central government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Pollution management
                            and environmental health (P)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council:                                                 Effective: 09/16/1994                09/16/1994
     Appraisal: 05/30/1993                                         MTR: 11/16/1998                  11/16/1998
     Approval: 03/17/1994                                       Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           PRC/China National Petroleum Company; Sichuan Petroleum Administration;
                                           PetroChina Ltd.
                      Other Partners:



STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:                 Junhui Wu                                      Richard S. Newfarmer
Team Leader at ICR:             Noureddine Berrah                              Selina Wai Sheung Shum
ICR Primary Author:             Salahuddin Khwaja


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating                             Rating (Supplemental GEF)

                           Outcome:        S                                  S

                     Sustainability:    HL                           HL
   Institutional Development Impact:    SU                           SU
                 Bank Performance:      S                            S
            Borrower Performance:       S                            S


                                                 QAG (if available)        ICR
                               Quality at Entry:                           S
                    Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


The supervision missions of March 1998 and November 1998 found implementation performance
unsatisfactory due to delay in the implementation of downstream activities. The project was, therefore,
considered at risk in 1998. Thereafter, the implementation has been rated as satisfactory.




3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Project Development Objectives

    (a) Support the restructuring of the Borrower's upstream oil and gas sector;
    (b) promote the development and conservation of gas resources in an economic, efficient and
         environmentally sound manner; and
    (c) strengthen the institutional capabilities of China National Petroleum Company (CNPC) and
         Sichuan Petroleum Administration (SPA).

    The formulation of project objectives was farsighted and appropriate. The project objectives were
    formulated at a time when China was still a net exporter of oil and the growth in domestic demand of
    oil and gas was outpacing the domestic production. (The net oil export had decreased from 25 million
    tons in 1987 to about 9 million tons in 1992.) Most of the major oil and gas producing fields were
    considered mature and many of these fields were experiencing production decline. Very large and
    sustained effort to increase exploration and development was essential to increase gas production.
    Critical constraints in the various aspects of technology, management and financing needed to be
    overcome. The sector organization was characterized by the dominance of government control and
    highly centralized planning.

    Since the 1960s, Sichuan Province had been a significant gas producing area but its gas production,
    then representing 42% of the national production, was declining. SPA, a subsidiary of CNPC, was by
    far the largest gas producer in Sichuan accounting for 98% of gas production in the province.

    With about 10% of the country's population and a per capita income of only 50% of the national
    average, Sichuan was one of the poorest provinces in China. While the economic growth in Sichuan
    was averaging around 10%, the growth of energy supply had not kept pace with the demand. As a
    result of severe gas shortages, industrial production was curtailed and industries were switching over
    from gas to coal. The share of natural gas in the commercial energy consumption had decreased from
    19% in 1979 to 11% in 1990 while the share of coal increased from 68% to 74%. Rise in coal



                                                    - 2 -

    consumption was exacerbating the already serious environmental impacts linked with its use.

Global Development Objectives. To assist the Recipient in its efforts to reduce methane emissions,
    enhance the operational efficiency and safety of gas transmission and distribution in Sichuan, and to
    strengthen the institutional capabilities of the operating agency.

    Almost all exploration, production, transmission and large scale distribution of natural gas in Sichuan
    Province was managed by SPA. Its gas transmission and distribution system, consisting of a grid of
    about 3,000 km of high-pressure pipelines was mostly 20 years old and was prone to breakdowns,
    accidents and gas leakages. Environmentally, the natural gas (predominantly methane) is a potent
    greenhouse gas. A pre-investment study of the system estimated that in 1992 around 20,000 tons of
    methane were released from the system into the atmosphere mostly through fugitive emissions. The
    same study concluded that a) the integrity of the system was uncertain and safety of the operating
    personnel and general public was at risk; b) internal corrosion in the pipelines, due to release of sour
    gas, was the most serious problem; c) in emergency situations the system controls would not have
    responded efficiently; d) the responsibility of system operation was divided between five gas producing
    regions and there was a lack of accountability at senior management level; and e) staff expertise
    required upgrading.
    The GEF grant was provided to support the system rehabilitation and to help reduce methane emissions
    as well as large-scale escape of gas due to breakdown and malfunctioning of the system.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    No revision of the objectives was required as there was a clear perception of likely sector development
    at the time of project preparation.

3.3 Original Components:

    The project consisted of the following components:

    a. Oil and Gas Sector Restructuring. Initiation of the first phase of the oil and gas restructuring
        program through, inter alia, commercialization and corporatization of CNPC and SPA,
        introduction of a commercial accounting system, and implementation of productivity enhancement
        and related human resources development programs.

    b. Gas Fields Development and Rehabilitation. Involving i) development of proven gas reserves in
        about fourteen selected gas fields in East Sichuan through drilling of about 100 infill development
        wells, acquisition of about 8,800 line-kilometers seismic survey and interpretation, construction of
        surface facilities consisting of gas gathering systems, gas dehydration and formation water
        treatment units; ii) rehabilitation of old gas wells, about 90 in East Sichuan and 100 in Central
        Sichuan, through work-over, reservoir stimulation and well re-completion; and iii) provision of
        state-of-the-art technology, equipment and materials for geophysical surveys, gas well drilling and
        completion, and production and environmental management.

    c. Expansion of Gas Transmission and Distribution. Involving construction of desulfurization plants
        and installation of: i) about 18-20 inch diameter x 35 kilometers long loop line from Fuying to
        Naxi; ii) about 18 inch diameter x 16 kilometer long loop line from Wubaiti to Jiangzhi; iii) about
        18 inch diameter x 71 kilometers long loop line from Wolonghe to Daosuiqiao; iv) about 18-22
        inch diameter x 124 kilometers long pipeline from Jiangzhi to Wolonghe; and v) about 10 inch



                                                     - 3 -

        diameter x 40 kilometer long pipeline from Fengjiawan to Wanxian, along with the related
        corrosion control, measurement and gas control facilities.

    d. Gas Transmission and Distribution System Rehabilitation. Including: rehabilitation and upgrading
        of pipelines, measurement, corrosion control, corrosion inhibition, telecommunication, gas control,
        gas quality monitoring and emergency response facilities of the entire gas transmission and
        distribution system; deterioration monitoring and evaluation of the transmission and distribution
        system; environmental upgrades to reduce methane emissions through i) installation of additional
        valves at the vent stacks of both the gas gathering and transmission systems, ii) installation of
        chained caps or plugs on open ended pipelines, iii) upgrading or replacement of the seals of control
        valves, iv) replacement of high performance compressor seals, v) upgrading of the seals of block
        valves, vi) implementation of comprehensive gas leak detection and repair program including repair
        or replacement of various types of valves, vii) plugging of open ended lines, and viii) provision of
        methane emission monitoring equipment; and provision of a supervisory control and data
        acquisition system (SCADA) for the whole transmission and distribution system.

    e. Institutional Building.    i) Institutional strengthening of SPA through technical assistance and
        training in modern petroleum technology and management including provision of in-country and
        overseas training of staff in gas field development, gas transmission and distribution, and financial
        management, promotion of petroleum development, and tariff setting; and ii) provision of national
        petroleum education including short and medium term overseas training, lecturing by international
        experts in China, and teaching materials and computer software.

    The projected components were directly supportive of the project objectives.            The restructuring
    component, based on an ongoing study, supported the government's intention to carry out a
    restructuring program outlined in the government's policy letter to the Bank of December 30, 1993.
    The gas fields development component, based on a reserves assessment study, was to help enhance gas
    production through the identification and delineation of additional reserves and rehabilitation of
    existing wells. The gas transmission and distribution expansion and rehabilitation components were
    formulated to enhance the capacity, safety and efficiency of the gas transportation system and to
    minimize methane emissions in line with the recommendations of a pre-investment (diagnostic) study of
    the gas transportation infrastructure.     The institutional building component was to strengthen the
    capabilities of the operating organizations through upgrading the know-how of the staff to promote
    efficient development of petroleum resource.

3.4 Revised Components:

    Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    The quality at entry is considered satisfactory. Prior to formulation of the project, studies with the help
    of international consultants were undertaken on restructuring of oil and gas sector, gas reserve
    assessment, gas transmission and distribution rehabilitation, environmental impact assessment, and gas
    allocation and pricing. These studies analyzed issues hampering the development of gas resources, and
    helped in designing the project and implementation strategies that would promote sustainable
    development. The letter included institutional restructuring and capacity building, alleviation of energy
    shortages in an environmentally sound manner, enhancement of safety and reduction of methane
    emissions. Potential risks to the project were flagged and steps were taken to mitigate these risks in the



                                                     - 4 -

    project design phase and during project implementation. The risks in upstream development, mainly
    due to complex geology, were to be mitigated by the provision of appropriate modern technology and
    equipment under the project.       In the rehabilitation and upgrading of the gas processing and
    transportation infrastructure the risks were minimized through the technical collaboration of the
    implementing agency with an experienced and internationally reputable organization.             To ensure
    financial stability of the investment components, assurances were obtained from the government on the
    implementation of an action plan for the rationalization of gas pricing and allocation criteria.

    The project concept and design were endorsed by peer reviewers and the Bank management. (QAG
    was not in existence.)

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    The project's development objectives were fully achieved and in many cases surpassed. Overall
    project outcome is rated as satisfactory only because of the delayed completion of the upgrading and
    rehabilitation of the system.

    (a) Support the restructuring of the Borrower's upstream oil and gas sector. Highly satisfactory.
        Before restructuring, the China National Petroleum Company (CNPC) was responsible for the
        development of onshore oil and gas resources and the China National Offshore Oil Company
        (CNOOC) was responsible for the development of offshore oil and gas resources. CNPC, in
        addition to being responsible for onshore oil and gas development also exercised some policy and
        regulation functions. Following a restructuring study carried out under the project in 1994 and
        other assessment carried out by the Government of China, CNPC and the China National
        Petrochemical Company (SINOPEC) responsible for oil refining and petrochemical production and
        marketing of products were restructured into two regional (and afterwards competing) vertically
        integrated entities responsible for onshore oil and gas development/transportation/marketing and
        refining/petrochemicals production and products marketing.

        Core activities of CNPC were consolidated into PetroChina Ltd (PCL), which was registered in
        November 1999.        Non-core activities remained with CNPC through its existing subsidiaries,
        organized as service companies.      Core activities of SINOPEC were consolidated into China
        National Petrochemical Company (SINOPEC Ltd) with non-core activities remaining with
        SINOPEC subsidiaries organized as service companies. CNOOC was also restructured with core
        activities consolidated into CNOOC Ltd and non-core activities remained with CNOOC
        subsidiaries organized as service companies.

        By early 2000, the government functions were separated from the business operations of the
        enterprises. During the transition, the China Association for Petroleum and Chemical Industries
        was given regulatory oversight.

        As part of its privatization process, PCL successfully carried out in April 2000 an initial public
        offering for 10% of its shares in international stock markets (New York and Hong Kong) for a
        total value of about RMB20 billion (US$2.5 billion).         In 2002, PCL reported a revenue of
        RMB244.4 billion (US$29.4 billion), 1.3% increase over 2001 and a profit of RMB46.9 billion
        (US$5.7 billion), a 3.2% increase over 2001. SINOPEC, Ltd. and CNOOC, Ltd. were also
        partially listed in international markets. In 2002, restriction on competition between the three



                                                    - 5 -

   companies was lifted in preparation of the gradual opening of the oil and gas markets to
   international oil companies beginning in 2005 (WTO commitments).

(b) Promote the development and conservation of gas resources in an economic, efficient and
   environmentally sound manner. Satisfactory. State of the art technology and equipment provided
   under the project enabled rapid increase in gas production; annual production rose from around 7.0
   billion cubic meters in 1994 to around 8.7 billion cubic meters per year by 2002. Modern reservoir
   management techniques enabled optimal recovery and minimized gas loss. New technologies in
   geophysical work and reservoir modeling, together with better drilling and well completion
   techniques enhanced the productivity i.e., enabled PetroChina Southwest Oil and Gas Fields
   Company (PCL Southwest) to attain its exploration and production goals with fewer wells. With
   the skills enhanced under the project, PCL Southwest could effectively use 3D seismic, conduct
   more accurate reservoir studies, and reduce well drilling and completion time.

   PCL Southwest's proven reserves of natural gas are now estimated at 682 billion cubic meters. At
   appraisal in 1994, the reserves were estimated at 415 billion cubic meters. The increase of 267
   billion cubic meters is far above the appraisal target of 70 billion cubic meters. The target of 8.0
   billion cubic meters for annual gas production was achieved by the year 2000 and current
   production is around 8.7 billion cubic meters per year. PCL Southwest has the capability to
   produce around 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas per year.

   At project commencement, almost all of the gas entering PCL Southwest's gas transmission and
   distribution network was non-specification. With the installation of new facilities and upgrading of
   old facilities, the entry of non-specification gas in the transportation network has been completely
   eliminated and since November 2001 PCL Southwest has been in compliance with the Chinese
   safety rules with regards to the quality of pipeline gas.

   The scope and methodology of rehabilitation and capacity expansion of the transmission and
   distribution infrastructure was defined by a diagnostic (pre-investment) study financed under a
   grant from Global Environmental Facility (GEF). An efficient and cost effective plan emerged
   from the study, comprising: i) rehabilitation involving inspection, monitoring and evaluation of the
   system, repair and upgrading of facilities, and replacement as required; ii) capacity expansion,
   involving installation of additional gas treatment facilities, pipelines, control stations and
   compressor stations; iii) institution building involving consolidation of all gas transmission and
   distribution operations into a single organization that will be fully accountable for efficient and
   safe supply of gas to the consumers; and iv) upgrading staff expertise through on-the-job training
   under technical collaboration with an experienced and internationally prominent operating
   organization.

   Under this plan, upgrading of the system and enhancement of its capacity was achieved by: a)
   optimal rehabilitation through deterioration monitoring and integrity evaluation, enabling
   replacement of parts and components rather than outright substitution of whole plants and sections;
   and b) improvement of control, communication and maintenance capability.              This approach
   maximized technology transfer and skills and minimized the upgrading cost. The plan has been
   substantially completed (with delay) and the network is now capable of transporting 10 billion
   cubic meters of gas annually, compared with 6.5 billion cubic meters at project commencement in
   1995 and 8 billion cubic meters targeted at appraisal.




                                                - 6 -

   Following the project environmental action plan, all drilling formation water, wastewater and
   work-over fluids, process wastewater, and pipeline fluids are treated before appropriate disposal
   i.e., by re-injection or discharge, and all mud and debris from drilling are treated before mud
   re-cycling and burial of debris.

   A total of 942 hectares of land were acquired for project implementation, of which 779 hectares
   were acquired for temporary use and 163 hectares were for permanent use. The affected parties
   were appropriately consulted and compensated in accordance with the laws of the People's
   Republic of China and the regulations of Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality.

   In 2002, PCL Southwest supplied around 8.7 billion cubic meters of natural gas to industrial,
   commercial and household consumers in Sichuan and the neighboring provinces and thus helped
   avoid the use of about 6 million tons of coal. In Sichuan's energy consumption, coal now accounts
   for 50%, hydropower for 35% and natural gas for 15%.

(c) Strengthen the institutional capabilities of CNPC and SPA. Satisfactory. In CNPC, institutional
   strengthening was organized through a program of in-country and overseas training involving
   several hundred professional staff. Following the restructuring of CNPC, PCL incorporated it in a
   larger ongoing program commensurate with its needs. Since PCL had sufficient resources, the
   remaining funds allocated for this purpose were cancelled at Borrower's request.

   In SPA/PCL Southwest, the capabilities were enhanced through: a) a long-term technical
   collaboration with SOFREGAZ who deployed a multi-discipline team of experts to provide advice,
   technical assistance and on-the-job training; b) on-the-job and overseas training with the providers
   of specialized services; c) consultancy services and studies to review problem areas in gas field
   development, processing, transportation and marketing: and d) in-country and overseas courses and
   study tours.

   Areas in which expertise have been upgraded include: geophysics, seismic data acquisition,
   reservoir engineering and management, drilling, well stimulation and recovery techniques, gas
   purification,   transmission    and    distribution,  gas   systems   planning,    instrumentation,
   telecommunication, SCADA, corrosion control, construction techniques, deterioration monitoring
   and integrity evaluation, rehabilitation management, environmental protection, management
   information systems, project planning and management, utility management, financial management,
   gas marketing, tariffs, and gas utilization.

   Before project commencement, management of SPA's gas transmission and distribution operations
   was divided amongst its five gas-producing regions.          Following the diagnostic study, the
   transmission and distribution operations under the management of four gas-producing regions were
   consolidated into a single organization called the Gas Transmission Management Department
   (GTMD). The operations in the fifth region (East region), however, remained under regional
   management, now called the Chongqing Gas Production Division (CGPD). On account of political
   constraints emanating from the separation of Chongqing municipality from Sichuan Province,
   merger of these operations into GTMD could not be achieved and the coordination between GTMD
   and CGPD was provided by PCL Southwest's Director of Planning and Development. This
   consolidation, though partial, still led to a marked improvement in accountability and operational
   efficiency as evidenced by the successfully coordinated implementation of deterioration monitoring,
   integrity evaluation, rehabilitation and capacity expansion programs for upgrading the pipeline
   network.


                                                - 7 -

       Global Development Objective. Assist the efforts to reduce methane emissions, to enhance the
       operational efficiency and safety of the gas transmission and distribution in Sichuan, and to
       strengthen the institutional capabilities of SPA. Satisfactory. As a result of rehabilitation and
       upgrading works undertaken under the project, entry of non-specification gas into the system has
       been completely eliminated. Emergency response arrangements have been upgraded. Installation
       of a supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA) is in progress; it was delayed due to
       SARS and is now due to completed by end December 2003. Fugitive methane emissions from the
       system have been substantially reduced from an estimated 20,000 tons at appraisal to 390 tons in
       1997 and about 50 tons in 2002. Overall, around 170,000 tons of fugitive methane emissions (3.4
       million tons carbon dioxide equivalent) have been avoided since the commencement of the project.
       The Grant funding per ton of carbon dioxide avoided to date amounts to US$2.94.

       The Department of Environmental Protection, adequately staffed with competent professionals and
       headed by a Director, is responsible for planning, implementing and monitoring of measures for
       environmental protection in gas production, purification and transportation as well as monitoring
       fugitive methane emissions and planning of remedial measures.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    A.  Initiation of the first phase of the oil and gas restructuring program through, inter alia,
       commercialization and corporatization of CNPC and SPA, introduction of a commercial
       accounting system, and implementation of productivity enhancement and related human
       resources development programs.

       In 1994 a restructuring study was conducted under the project. Following this study, restructuring
       was initiated in two phases.

       In 1998, a) two fully integrated onshore oil and gas companies were created, one out of CNPC (the
       country's largest oil producer- with a capacity of about 2.9 million barrels per day from 20 fields)
       now called CNPC Group and the other out of SINOPEC, the country's largest oil refiner, with a
       capacity of about 3.55 million barrels per day from 34 refineries, now called SINOPEC Group, to
       operate on commercial basis with clear profit targets set by the Government; and b) the China
       Association of Petroleum and Chemical Industry was given regulatory oversight during the
       transition period to help separate the sector enterprise functions from Government policy and
       regulation functions and to promote competition between all companies operating in the sector, in
       conformity with project's restructuring objectives as stated in the Government's letter to the Bank
       of December 30, 1993 on oil and gas sector reforms.

       In 1999, the Government decided to: (a) spin off the technical services from exploration and
       production; (b) reorganize CNPC and its subsidiaries on the basis of core competencies; and (c)
       list the core business companies on the stock markets. The producing fields with associated
       exploration and development, processing, transmission, distribution and marketing activities were
       transferred to a newly created national oil company­PetroChina Company Limited (PCL)­which
       was registered in November 1999 as a limited liability company.          Simultaneously, the field
       technical services were organized as service providers to PCL and other entities in the sector.

       SPA's core activities (exploration and production of gas in Sichuan and, transmission and
       distribution of gas in Sichuan and neighboring provinces) were taken over by PCL in January 2000



                                                   - 8 -

   and organized as PCL Southwest Oil & Gas Fields Company. The non-core activities remained
   with SPA, registered as a solely state-owned service company.

   Assets to be allocated between SPA/CNPC and PCL have been identified. The Borrower has
   requested amendments to the Loan and GEF Grant Agreements to reflect the transfer of certain
   core assets and liabilities of CNPC to Petro China and these are now in the process of being
   completed.

   Commercial accounting has been adopted by PCL Southwest. Its accounting set-up complies with
   the relevant Chinese financial and accounting regulations.        However, for reporting to stock
   exchanges, further adjustments (such as depreciation) are made to the financial statements
   prepared on the basis of Chinese accounting regulations to conform to International Accounting
   Standards and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP). Under a
   Bank funded project, Accounting Reform and Development Project, China Accounting Standards
   Committee is compiling national accounting standards, of which those applicable to petroleum
   industry are expected to be finalized by the end of 2003. These standards are being modeled after
   International Accounting Standards. PetroChina accounts are audited annually by a reputable
   international auditing company.

   Productivity enhancement and related human resource development of the staff in CNPC and SPA
   was achieved through the skills upgrading programs implemented under the Institutional Building
   component discussed in subsequent paragraphs.

   Progress achieved to-date in restructuring the sector goes well beyond the project stated objectives
   as indicated in section 4.1 a).

B. Gas Fields Development and Rehabilitation

   The program of geophysical works, well drilling and rehabilitations and provision of gas gathering
   and processing facilities envisaged under the project has been completed.

   About 12,300 line-kilometers of seismic survey and interpretation have been carried out compared
   with the project target of 8,800 line-kilometers. A total of 128 infill development wells have been
   drilled against the original target of 100 wells.      Surface facilities installed to support this
   development include gas gathering systems, gas dehydration and formation water units.

   A total of 197 wells have been rehabilitated in East and Central Sichuan through work-over,
   reservoir stimulation and well re-completion slightly exceeding the original target of 190 wells.

   Natural gas reserves in the proven, probable and possible categories are now estimated at 682
   billion cubic meters, 176 billion cubic meters and 253 billion cubic meters respectively. At
   appraisal in 1994, the comparative figures were 415 billion cubic meters, 107 billion cubic meters
   and 150 billion cubic meters respectively. The increase of 267 billion cubic meters in the category
   of proven reserves is 3.5 times the appraisal target of 70 billion cubic meters. Gas production,
   about 8.7 billion cubic meters in 2002, exceeded the appraisal target of 8 billion cubic meters and a
   production of about 9.0 billion cubic meters is projected for 2003.

   The addition to proven reserves, 267 billion cubic meters, includes about 100 billion cubic meters
   with high sulfur content. With the support of the Corrosion Protection Institute and the Research



                                               - 9 -

   Institute of Natural Gas Technology, PCL Southwest is acquiring appropriate technology and
   equipment to develop these high sulfur gas reserves in a sound environmentally manner.

C. Expansion of Gas Transmission and Distribution System &
D. Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation.

These two components are closely interrelated and are therefore being discussed together.

   The capacity expansion and rehabilitation of the gas processing and transportation infrastructure
   was undertaken in accordance with the recommendations of the aforementioned diagnostic study.

   At project commencement, in 1995, all of the gas entering the network from East region and about
   8.5% of the gas entering the network from other regions was non-specification. By November
   2001, with the installation of new facilities and upgrading of old facilities at around 30 different
   locations, PCL Southwest's total gas purification capability was raised to a total of 7 billion cubic
   meters per year and, by end 2002, it was further enhanced to 8.2 billion cubic meters per year.
   Also, as of November 2001, entry of non-specification gas in PCL Southwest's transportation
   system was eliminated and since then, PCL Southwest has been in compliance with Chinese safety
   and quality rules of pipeline gas.

   PCL Southwest's annual gas production is currently about 8.7 billion cubic meters. Excluding a)
   the gas consumed internally, b) the gas that does not require purification and c) the gas that is
   purified by some of the consumers, about 7.5 billion cubic meters requires purification before its
   sale to the consumers in Sichuan and Chongqing. The total installed purification capacity of PCL
   Southwest amounts to around 8.2 billion cubic meters per year. While this capacity would meet
   the current needs, there is little (about 5%) standby capacity and provision for growth. In 2000,
   SPA conducted a gas market study of Sichuan province and Chongqing municipality with the
   assistance of SOFREGAZ. The study indicated an annual consumption potential of 10.56 billion
   cubic meters in the year 2005 and 12.36 billion cubic meters per year in 2010. Thus, given the
   consumption growth in line with these projections, an additional purification capacity of the order
   of 2.0-2.5 billion cubic meters per year could be required by 2005. It is planned to meet this
   additional purification need by a plant with a capacity of about 2.2 billion cubic meters per year to
   be built at Zhongxian and commissioned by mid 2005. For reasons mentioned in section 5.4, it has
   not been financed from the Loan.

   The implementation of network capacity expansion and rehabilitation was delayed and accordingly
   in the year 1998 the project implementation was rated as unsatisfactory. These works commenced
   in earnest from January 1999 following the mid-term review (MTR). The reasons for delays were:
   a) extended site investigations to evaluate the condition of the various sections of the system, which
   was a necessary precursor to the repairs that were to be undertaken; and b) delays in the
   procurement of required goods and services. Of these, procurement delays were the main cause of
   the late start-up of the major activities of this component.

   Rehabilitation involved repair, replacement and relocation of pipelines; construction of loop lines
   and spurs; upgrading of pressure/ flow regulation and measurement facilities and provision of new
   facilities; upgrading of corrosion control facilities; strengthening and upgrading of river crossings;
   and installation of a supervisory control and data acquisition system. Deterioration monitoring and
   integrity evaluation of pipelines and control stations, undertaken by PCL Southwest with assistance
   from SOFREGAZ, its international consultant, was an important precursor to rehabilitation and



                                                 - 10 -

   capacity expansion in Sichuan and China.           Its findings determined the type and extent of
   rehabilitation and expansion works to be undertaken in conformity with Chinese standards. Key
   steps involved were: evaluation of internal and external corrosion; callipering; risk analysis; and
   in-line inspection (intelligent pigging) of selected sections. PetroChina Southwest Branch acquired
   the know-how to carry out deterioration monitoring and integrity evaluation on a continuous basis
   after the completion of the project.

   New carriers with a cumulative length of 338 km were built.            Old pipeline sections with a
   cumulative length of 926 km were repaired and 167 monitoring and control facilities were
   upgraded. Of the cumulative length of 1026 km of line pipe laid under the project, 338 km were
   used for new carriers as trunk lines and spurs, and 688 km were used for rehabilitation and
   strengthening of existing carriers through looping and replacement of selected sections.

   Some works, notably the last phase of intelligent pigging and SCADA installation, have been
   delayed due to SARS. Upon completion of these works, now scheduled by end of 2003, the
   network rehabilitation program will have been substantially implemented.

   Under certain gas input and off-take assumptions, the network is now capable of transporting 10
   billion cubic meters of gas annually, compared with 6.5 billion cubic meters at project
   commencement in 1995.

E. Institutional Building

   In CNPC, skills and professional knowledge of 704 professionals were upgraded through studies,
   courses, seminars, conferences, study visits undertaken abroad and also through similar programs
   conducted in China with the assistance of 28 foreign specialists.

   In SPA/PCL Southwest, the expertise of 1736 staff was enhanced through in-country and overseas
   courses, on-the-job training, study visits with international gas companies and operating
   organizations, technical studies, providers of specialized services, and technical collaboration with
   prominent international organizations. Of the above, 640 staff attended overseas courses covering
   338 weeks of coaching.

   Technical collaboration of SPA/PCL Southwest with an experienced organization was deemed
   essential to ensure safe and efficient implementation of the rehabilitation and capacity expansion
   plan. Under this arrangement, the collaborating organization would provide a broad based package
   of technical assistance to build SPA/PCL Southwest's management and operating capabilities in
   parallel with project implementation. Such an arrangement, as opposed to discrete technical
   assistances packages to deal with different disciplines and hiring consultants to assist in their
   implementation, was preferable as it would provide a) integration of know-how transfer on site in
   the course of project implementation, b) keep the work program flexible over time, and c) expose
   SPA/PCL Southwest to an experienced organization. Such support was provided by SOFREGAZ
   from 1995 to 2003 under a technical collaboration contract. The TA covered upgrading the skills
   of PCL Southwest's professional staff in tandem with timely advice in the implementation of the
   rehabilitation and capacity expansion plan. SOFREGAZ deployed a multi-discipline team of
   experts to provide advice, technical assistance and on-the-job training. A total of 55 missions to
   SPA/PCL Southwest were undertaken by SOFREGAZ experts, and a total of 467 engineers and
   technicians were thus trained. Also, seven overseas training programs were undertaken benefiting
   73 professionals and a special training program for high-level managers was conducted.



                                                - 11 -

        Additionally, study visits to European gas companies for 34 senior managers (directors, vice
        president and president) were undertaken.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    In the ICR, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is calculated using: (a) actual gas price from 1995 to
    2003, and assuming the same level thereafter; and (b) the actual condensate price from 1995 to 2002
    and World Bank's petroleum price projection multiplied by 1.23 as proxies of condensate prices
    thereafter. (The multiplier is based on the average price difference between petroleum and condensate
    during 1995 and 2002. Income from condensate sales is very small and has very limited impact on the
    ERR.) The operating period of the project is 20 years from 1995-2015 as defined in the appraisal
    report, preceded by capital investments in 1994. The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of
    the project is 24%, coincidentally equal to the appraisal estimate. If the appraisal assumptions were
    considered (the economic values of natural gas and condensate were assumed to be the prices of
    international fuel oil and naphtha, respectively) the re-estimated ERR would be 70%, about three times
    higher than the appraisal estimated rate of return. (Actual and the Bank's projected oil price were used
    and naphtha prices were conservatively assumed to be the same as the oil prices.) Since the benefits to
    the economy associated with gas efficiency, local and global environmental benefits were not taken
    into account, the ICR estimate of the ERR is conservative.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    Financial prospects in terms of profitability, cash flow, and debt service capacity are sound. Financial
    internal rate of return (FIRR) for the project is estimated at 13% in real terms, which is close to the
    appraisal estimates of 12%. The main factors which facilitated the satisfactory performance of the
    project include: (a) gradual gas sales price increases; (b) larger than expected incremental production;
    and (c) increased investment efficiency by better management of transmission pipelines. Higher capital
    and operating costs than the appraisal were offset by higher increases in production, sales, and price.

    The financial performance of the project implementing agency was monitored by two financial
    covenants, namely a break-even covenant and a self-financing ratio of more than 50%. However, SPA,
    the original implementing agency, was restructured in 1999, and its core business was transferred to
    PCL at a revalued price, while non-core business was organized into a service company. As a result,
    the project implementation was taken over by PCL. New covenants agreed with PCL would be
    effective after signing of the amendments to the legal agreement. If the original covenants were applied
    to PCL, its profitability and liquidity would be sufficient to comply with performance targets after
    2001, while it would be short on both covenants for the first two years after its establishment.

    PCL is a subsidiary company of the CNPC Group established as a joint stock company with limited
    liability in November 1999. It completed a global initial public offering of about 10% of its share in
    April 2000. The company now produces two-thirds of all China's oil and controls 80% of the
    country's natural gas reserve. In 2002, PCL reported a revenue of RMB244 billion (US$29.4 billion),
    a 1.3% increase over 2001, a profit of RMB47 billion (US$5.7 billion), a 3.2% increase over 2001,
    and total assets of RMB483 billion (US$58.4 billion).          PCL improved its profitability since its
    establishment in 1999 and benefited from high oil prices.




                                                    - 12 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    The institutional development impact has been high. The government functions have been separated
    from the management of enterprises. PCL, SINOPEC Ltd and CNOOC Ltd which have emerged from
    the restructuring of CNPC, CNOOC and SINOPEC are enterprises operating according to commercial
    principles and international practice and with clear definition of property rights. They are joint stock
    companies with foreign share holdings. PCL, SINOPEC Ltd and CNOOC Ltd are also cooperating
    with international oil companies in exploration for oil and gas in China and overseas and transmission
    of gas from west to east in China. PCL has entered into 52 contracts with 45 international oil
    companies for oil and gas exploration and development in China. SPA as a service company is
    engaged in drilling, logging and geophysical operations in Sichuan, Tarim and Changqin basins in
    China, and abroad in Thailand, Kazakhistan, Iran, Pakistan, Indonesia, Jordan and Papua New Guinea.


    The Association for Petroleum and Chemical Industries has been created to promote competition and to
    regulate the sector.    Preparations are under way for the formulation of a legal and regulatory
    framework that would help establish more open oil and gas compatible markets as required by market
    regulators prior to the partial listing of the three companies. (see section 4.6).

    PCL Southwest, a department of PCL, is now planning to expand its gas sale in Sichuan and in the
    neighboring provinces from about 8.5 billion cubic meters per year to around 12 billion cubic meters
    by the year 2010. It is also cooperating with international oil companies in gas exploration activities in
    Sichuan and Chongqing.

4.6   Policy Impact

    Regulatory Framework

    Policy impact has been far reaching. The sector has been restructured. The core business companies
    have been listed on stock markets and part of their equity in now privately held. Prior to the listing of
    the new companies, PetroChina and others, regulatory agencies of the selected financial markets
    requested the gradual development of an adequate and stable regulatory framework. The Chinese
    government invited the Bank to assist in developing an appropriate framework for the Chinese oil and
    gas sector. This led to a fruitful cooperation, partially funded by the Public-Private Infrastructure
    Advisory Facility (PPIAF) between the Bank and the State Council for Reforming the Economic Sector
    (SCORES) Institute of Economic System Management (IESM) resulting in the preparation of three
    reports. The first (Modernizing China's Oil and Gas Sector ­ Structural Reform and Regulation)
    discussed reform needs in the oil and gas sector as a whole, the second (China: Economic Regulation of
    Long-Distance Gas Transmission and Urban Distribution) researched economic regulation of
    long-distance transportation of natural gas and its reticulation in urban areas, and the third report
    (Preparing the Regulatory Framework for Long-Distance Transmission and Urban Gas Distribution)
    presented a model legislation designed with appropriate regard both to international best practices and
    to China's particular circumstances, as a means to bring about modern economic regulation to help
    achieve the government's policy goals for the sector. Its recommendations have been approved in
    principle by the State Council and a draft Gas Law is under consideration by the National People's
    Congress




                                                       - 13 -

    Gas Pricing. Under the reform action plan agreed at project negotiation, the gas sale price was to be
    gradually increased to reach netback value level, allowing a reasonable return on investment and
    encouraging efficient use of gas.      During project implementation, the wellhead, purification and
    transmission prices were gradually increased enabling PCL Southwest's average sale price to increase
    from RMB389/thousand cubic meters in 1994 to the current level of RMB743.83/ thousand cubic
    meters (US$1=RMB8.26). It covers the operating cost and has enabled PCL Southwest to achieve a
    financial rate return of about 13% (compared with 12% covenanted under the Loan). Also, within the
    existing price structure, some adjustments in the transmission tariff have been made to reflect the
    distance the gas is transported. However, the prices of competing fuels have still to be rationalized.
    The price of coal, the main competitor of gas, is about half the price of gas and penetration of gas in
    domestic energy consumption remains dependent on Government's fuel allocation policy.          However,
    the government is increasingly focusing on taking into account environmental externalities in energy
    prices through higher sulfur dioxide emissions and incorporation of externalities in the consumer price.

    Allocation Policy. Under the same plan the new gas allocations were to be based upon reserve
    availability and the ranking of economic value of use, taking into account the netback value of gas.
    Netback would no longer be the basis as the government is moving towards competitive markets. The
    allocation policy is being phased out slower than expected at appraisal because of its potential impact
    on state owned enterprises.       According to World Trade Organization (WTO) agreements, the
    Government is committed to open its oil and gas sector by 2005 and completely phase out the
    allocation policy.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Outbreak of SARS in China in the first half of 2003 significantly affected project implementation
    Consequently, completion of some of the works has been delayed by as much as six months.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Restructuring of CNPC and SPA was expeditiously carried out. Creation of PCL, and organization of
    SPA's core business into PCL Southwest enhanced focus on field operations and management
    commitment to project implementation, particularly with regards downstream activities i.e.,
    rehabilitation of gas processing and transportation infrastructure.

    Rationalization of gas pricing made the project financially viable and encouraged private sector interest
    in upstream development. However, gas allocation to some large SOEs, especially fertilizer industry,
    are still mandated by the government to avoid further deterioration of the financial situation of these
    enterprises and ensuing social problems. These subsidies will be phased out according to WTO
    commitments.

    During appraisal it was agreed that all of the gas transmission and distribution operations of SPA, then
    divided amongst five gas producing regions, would be consolidated into a single organization i.e., a Gas
    Transmission and Distribution Management Department (GTMD). This was not fully implemented.
    Due to political reasons arising from the separation of Chongqing Municipality from Sichuan Province,
    the gas transmission and distribution operations of the fifth gas producing region, the East Gas Region
    located in Chongqing Municipality area, were not merged into GTMD. Since all the gas fields and
    consumption centers in Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality are served by an integrated



                                                     - 14 -

    transportation grid, such a split in the management of operations created operational problems
    requiring frequent coordination from the SPA/PCL Southwest head office.

    While the government has been generally supportive of the project, its procedures mandating approval
    of procurement documents by CNPC and MEIAO (now called SAIETMEP), and for the government's
    procurement organizations to act as agents to PCL Southwest, impeded expeditious procurement.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    Although, as mentioned above, the consolidation of gas transmission and distribution operations was
    only partially carried out, it still improved coordination and procedural consistency in the operation and
    maintenance of the system and facilitated its rehabilitation due to coordination provided from PCL
    Southwest's head office.

    Capacity expansion and rehabilitation of the network were delayed. The reasons for delays were: a)
    extended site investigations to evaluate the condition of the various sections of the system, which was a
    necessary precursor to the repairs and upgrading that were to be undertaken; and b) delays in the
    procurement of required goods and services. Of these, procurement delays were the main cause, as the
    site investigations were held up due to non-availability of equipment and services. However, the
    investigations were of high quality and clearly identified the nature and extent of required
    rehabilitation.

    Prior to sector restructuring, SPA was hamstrung due to cumbersome procedures and insufficient
    authority. It still managed to achieve good progress in upstream development as it was fully familiar
    with the involved activities. However, in areas where it had no prior experience such as deterioration
    monitoring and integrity evaluation of downstream infrastructure, it could not effectively support
    expeditious implementation due to aforementioned constraints. Following the structural reform, the
    situation improved and PCL Southwest was able to speed up the pace of procurement processing.

    Upgrading of gas processing and transportation infrastructure was extended by about two years due to
    reasons mentioned above. This delayed project completion and necessitated the first and only extension
    of closing date by two years.

    Selection and appointment of SOFREGAZ, as technical collaborator, provided valuable on-site advice
    in the planning and implementation of rehabilitation and capacity expansion of gas processing and
    transportation infrastructure and thus enabled successful completion of these project components.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The total project cost is estimated at US$902.83 million compared with US$877.80 million estimated
    at appraisal. The aforementioned appraisal cost includes physical and price contingencies as estimated
    during appraisal but does not include interest during construction.

    From the loan amount of US$255 million, about US$37.69 was cancelled upon Borrower's request as
    PCL, the implementing agency, had sufficient resources to complete the project (due to increase equity
    funds after listing of PCL) and about US$8.42 million was undisbursed. Of the GEF grant of US$10
    million equivalent, about US$0.14 was undisbursed.




                                                      - 15 -

   The overall project cost is estimated to increase by about 3% from the appraisal in US Dollar term,
   with overruns of the local costs by about 36% and under-runs of the foreign costs by about 42%. The
   major factors for local cost overruns are: (a) an increase in gas fields development costs, which
   accounts for about 70% of the project costs, due to more proven gas reserves than expected at
   appraisal; and (b) more adoption of locally supplied goods than planned. The lower than expected
   inflation and the higher than expected exchange rates almost offset each other's effect in US dollar
   term. The major factors for foreign cost under-runs are: (a) a reduction of imported goods because of
   the shift to the local goods; and (b) lower than expected inflation. In RMB terms, the costs were lower
   by about 30%, since price contingency allowances of costs in local currency estimates at appraisal
   were higher than the actual. (Local inflation during the project implementation period was estimated at
   about 8% per year on average at appraisal compared to the actual rate of about 2% on average per
   year.)

   Gas Fields Development. The actual cost for this component is US$619.40 million compared with
   US$498.78 million estimated at appraisal; an increase of about 24%. The local cost is 63% higher
   while the foreign cost is 32% less than the appraisal estimate. The increase in overall cost is on
   account of an increase of 28% and 4% respectively in the number of wells drilled and rehabilitated and
   acquisition of 40% more seismic data and interpretation, resulting in addition of 3.5 times more
   reserves than expected at appraisal (267 versus 70 billion cubic meters). The under-run in foreign cost
   is due to lower cost of imported goods and services compared with the cost anticipated at appraisal and
   also due to increased use of locally produced goods.

   Dehydration and Desulfurization. The actual cost is around half of the appraisal estimate. This is due
   to a) successful rehabilitation and upgrading of existing centralized facilities which in turn minimized
   the installation of new facilities and b) since following the aforementioned cancellation of funds a new
   purification plant, to be installed at Zhongxian, was not be financed from the loan.

   Field Stimulation /Rehabilitation.      The actual cost is about half of what was anticipated as the
   condition of wells was found to be much better than stipulated at appraisal.

   Gas Transmission Expansion. The actual total cost is about 13% less than the appraisal estimated
   while foreign component is about 20% of the appraisal estimate as mostly locally produced materials
   were used.

   Gas Transmission Rehabilitation. The actual total cost is about 20% higher than appraisal estimate
   due to increased rehabilitation work following the site investigations. The foreign component is around
   40% of the estimate at appraisal due to maximization of local materials and services.

   Gas Transmission Environmental Upgrade. The actual total cost and its foreign component are about
   35% and 42% lower than the appraisal estimates due to greater use of locally produced materials and
   also because some of the equipment such as SCADA have been accounted for in the Gas Transmission
   Rehabilitation component.

   Technical Assistance and Training.        This is underutilized by about 15% due to aforementioned
   cancellation of funds from the loan.

6. Sustainability



                                                    - 16 -

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    The project sustainability is rated as highly likely. PCL is well established. It has performed well and
    continues to generate investor interest. Its cooperation with international oil companies is expanding.
    The government is committed to establishing a modern regulatory framework that would promote
    efficient development of oil and gas resources. Preparations for its implementation are well advanced
    (see para 4.6). SPA, apart from operating as a service company in two prominent basins in China, has
    been successful in securing business opportunities in a number of countries in South East Asia, Central
    Asia and the Middle East.          The process of restructuring initiated under the project is clearly
    irreversible.

    Main contributing factors for the future performance and highly likely sustainability of the project
    outcome are China's commitment to increase natural gas share in primary energy consumption through
    development and better use of its domestic resources and gas imports. Natural gas market and prices
    have steadily increased and prices will be gradually be determined by market forces as China's imports
    increase and the sector further opens to competition.       PCL Southwest projects a steady gas sales
    increase along with an expansion of transmission network to other provinces from 2004. Several
    provinces are putting restrictions on coal use to promote gas penetration.       Principles for regulated
    transmission prices have been adopted by the National Development and Reform Commission based on
    a study carried out by PetroChina with Bank assistance.

    PCL Southwest has successfully implemented the project; all project targets have been achieved or
    exceeded. With gas price rationalization achieved under the project and increased penetration of gas
    (especially for power generation) due to environmental concerns, its business is expanding on a
    financially sound basis. With abundant gas reserves, a transportation system to match its substantially
    enhanced production capability and a large market in Sichuan and neighboring provinces, it can rapidly
    expand its gas sales; it is preparing to increase the sales by 50% over the next seven years. Studies
    have indicated a large potential for gas utilization in Sichuan and neighboring provinces.            Its
    recoverable gas reserve of about 687 billion cubic meters can support annual sales of 12 billion cubic
    meters for 50 years. With the institutional strengthening received under the project, its organization
    has become robust and mature. It has the potential to become an important profit center for PCL.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    This will not be required, as PCL Southwest upon taking over SPA's operations acquired an
    established organization with a long experience in gas development, processing, transportation and
    marketing. Under the project, its skills have been enhanced, operations have been modernized and
    infrastructure has been upgraded.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

    It is rated as satisfactory.      Bank raised awareness of international experience in restructuring,
    regulation and promotion of competition in the petroleum sector; flagged the need to acquire modern
    technology and know-how for efficient development of petroleum resource; and assisted in the
    diagnosis of the causes of transportation system deterioration and in the formulation of strategy for its
    rehabilitation. Energy resources in Sichuan, ramifications of coal-based energy generation, institutions


                                                    - 17 -

    in the energy sector, and government policies were reviewed to identify issues in sector development.
    Various policy and pre-investment studies were conducted with the help of international consultants to
    determine the scope of the project. To fund these studies, assistance was solicited and obtained from
    the international community, which included Technical Cooperation Credit II (US$1.9 million),
    Japanese Grant Facility (US$1.2 million), United Nations Development Program (US$0.25 million)
    and Pre-investment Facility of the Global Environmental Facility (US$1.4 million).

7.2 Supervision:

    It is rated as satisfactory.     The Bank closely monitored the implementation and assisted the
    implementing agencies in evaluations and in devising corrective measures.          (Project supervision
    assessed once by QAG and rated 1). Good working relations were maintained between the Bank, the
    implementing agencies and consultants. Implementation reporting was systematic and adequately
    detailed. The aide memoires provided a good account of project implementation, flagged problem areas
    and remedial measures, conducted an MTR at a critical phase of project implementation to address
    issues hampering progress in 1998 and facilitated progress tracking.             Useful guidance and
    recommendations were provided on restructuring, institutional strengthening and technical issues.
    Given cogent reasons, the Bank was flexible in extending the loan closing date.

    Bank promptly responded when the government requested assistance to further the reforms beyond the
    objectives initially sought by the project. Through PPIAF supported studies and workshops, the Bank
    increased awareness and consensus for establishing an adequate legal and regulatory framework that
    would promote efficient development. (see section 4.6 )

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    Borrower preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower and its implementing agencies, CNPC/SPA,
    cooperated in the conduct of reviews, studies and workshops for project preparation. Relevant data on
    gas resource, costs, human resource and capabilities of operating organizations was provided. Interest
    and participation in discussions and workshops displayed strong ownership of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    It is rated as satisfactory. After the completion of the restructuring study in 1994, around four years
    were taken to consider the various options. However, once the decision in the matter was taken, the
    reform was expeditiously carried out and went far beyond the "initiation of the first phase" as expected
    under the project. Of the five objectives set under the government's policy letter of December 30,
    1993, three objectives have been achieved or surpassed. These are: separating the governmental
    function from the management of enterprises; phasing-in the corporatization and restructuring of oil
    and gas fields; and expanding international cooperation for the on-shore oil and gas exploration and
    development. Significant progress has been achieved in the remaining two objectives namely: setting
    up the market for oil and gas exploration and development of competition for enterprises; and
    improving the state's macro-control and regulatory system. In 2002, the government lifted restrictions
    on competition among the three national companies and committed during WTO negotiations to



                                                   - 18 -

    gradually open the sector for international oil companies beginning in 2005.

    The government has been generally supportive of the investment components of the project.
    Rationalization of gas pricing, with some delay, made these components, and indeed the implementing
    agency, financially viable. However, the gas allocation policy is not fully phased out mainly because
    of reluctance of the Sichuan government and concerns about the social impacts on large SOEs in the
    province.

    Following the restructuring of CNPC and creation of PCL there has been a need to revise the legal
    documents pertaining to the loan and the grant in order to reflect the reallocated responsibilities of
    CNPC and PCL. After extensive discussions in the years 2001 and 2002 between PCL and the Bank,
    amendments to the loan and grant agreements and the loan and grant project agreements were drafted.
    These drafts were submitted to PCL and concerned government agencies in April 2003 for review and
    clearance before preparation of the formal documents for signing by the concerned agencies. Clearance
    has not been provided to-date indicating different opinions and inadequate coordination between the
    restructured entities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    The implementation performance in the upstream investment component was highly satisfactory from
    the outset.   The implementation of the capacity expansion and rehabilitation components was
    unsatisfactory until the MTR and satisfactory afterwards (1999-2003). The reasons for delays were:
   a) extended site investigations to evaluate the condition of the various sections of the system, which
   was a necessary precursor to the repairs that were to be undertaken; and b) delays in the procurement
   of required goods and services. Of these, procurement delays were the main cause of late start-up of
   the major activities of this component. The technical collaborator, deemed essential for safe and
   efficient rehabilitation, was appointed about a year after loan signing. The site investigations into the
   condition of the pipelines were slowed down or could not commence due to non-availability of
   equipment and services. The Project Management Office did not have adequate staff and authority to
   expedite procurement processing within the implementing agency and the clearances required of other
   agencies of the government.        If procurement activities were carried out in a timely basis, site
   investigations could have been completed by end 1996 for rehabilitation to commence in 1997. A delay
   of about two years is thus attributable to slow procurement processing. After the restructuring of SPA
   and take over of operations by PCL Southwest in 1999, the pace of decision making by the
   management and procurement processing within the organization improved appreciably, however, the
   mandated clearance of documents by PCL Beijing, CNPC and MEIAO remained a significant
   impediment.

   Taking into account the fact that all the targets set under the project were achieved, and in several cases
   exceeded appraisal expectations, overall performance of the implementing agencies (SPA and
   subsequently PCL Southwest) is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall borrower performance is assessed to be satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    Opportunities to promote and further the reform agenda should be followed upon quickly if they arise



                                                     - 19 -

    during project implementation. The dual track approach followed during project implementation,
    intensive policy dialog at the national level and implementation strategies designed at the project level,
    facilitated and furthered achievement of the objectives of the project.       The comprehensive studies
    carried out under the project allowed the Bank's timely response to government queries about policies
    and actions that would deepen and further the reforms. Government ownership of and commitment to
    the reform process are more important to the success of reforms than unrealistic and dictated
    covenants. In this project, cooperation with SCORES and provision of timely expert advice and
    international best experience, developed consensus amongst the various stakeholders in sector
    development and generally facilitated the reform process.

    Appropriate technology transfer can significantly step-up sector performance and availability of
    resources. Under the project, it led to a 267 billion cubic meter increase in the proven reserves of gas
    compared with 70 billion cubic meters estimated at appraisal, a production capability of 10 billion
    cubic meters per year versus the appraisal target of 8 billion cubic meters and a transportation
    capability of 10 billion cubic meters per year as against 8 billion projected at appraisal.

    The long-term technical collaboration with an experienced organization in the rehabilitation and
    capacity expansion of gas processing and transportation infrastructure was highly successful as it
    provided on-site managerial and technical expertise, advice and training to SPA/PCL Southwest staff
    and simultaneously facilitated decision making and state of the art knowledge transfer.

    Procurement processing could be streamlined in China to avoid delays in project implementation. A
    delay of about 2 years was encountered on this account in the implementation of this project. The main
    constraints to efficient procurement processing were the system of multi-layered approvals and
    processing through intermediaries i.e., government approved agents.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    The project started in 1995 when the gas production of the Sichuan Province was declining (from 6.5
    billion cubic meters per year in 1979 to 5.2 billion cubic meters per year in 1990) due to aging of
    several fields and too difficult operating conditions, coupled with outmoded technology and equipment.
    At the same time, most of the transmission system was 12 - 20 years old, and was operated under
    precarious conditions, prone to breakdowns, accidents and leakages.

    The objectives of the project were then defined after a thorough diagnostic study (1994) which enabled
    to identify actions to be taken.       Their implementation comprised three main components i) a
    restructuring component, ii) an investment component (Gas field development and rehabilitation, Gas
    transmission development and rehabilitation), iii) an institution building component (essentially training
    of personnel).

    At the end of the project all the objectives have been achieved, and even exceeded. The restructuring of
    the gas and petroleum sector, then the reorganization of CNPC and of subsidiaries on the basis of core
    competencies were accomplished in 1999 and were beneficial to the project.                 Moreover, the
    sustainability of the project was critically dependent on rationalization of pricing policy and allocation
    criteria which reforms have been undertaken and will contribute, along with improvements in
    operational efficiency, to ensure that the revenues of the overall operations of the system can yield a
    profit.



                                                     - 20 -

    The development of new gas fields has reversed the natural decline of the production which could again
    increase steadily by around 4% a year in average since 2000, exceeding the apprised target of 8 billion
    cubic meters per year (8.3 billion cubic meters in 2001, 8.8 in 2002, and 9 expected in 2003). In
    parallel the proven reserves have been increased by 267 billion cubic meters, far above the appraisal
    (70 billion cubic meters).       In the same time, the gas transportation network was upgraded and
    developed. Weak parts have been rehabilitated or looped with new lines, whereas pipelines in densely
    areas have been relocated. The totality of the gas entering the network is now processed to comply
    with transmission specifications and corrosion of pipe (internal or external) is not anymore a threat.
    The present transmission capacity of the whole system is above 10 billion cubic meters per year.

    A total of 1736 persons have been trained, all categories merged (Managers, Engineers, Technicians),
    either in China through courses, seminar and on the job training, or abroad in overseas companies or
    institutes.

    However, due to adversely conditions (unusual time to procure key equipment at the beginning of the
    project, technical failures of investigation equipment, SARS in 2003) some actions have been delayed
    and are still under implementation. They essentially concern the completion of a SCADA system
    covering the entire network (commissioning planned in September / October 2003), the achievement of
    the internal inspection on a few lines still under rehabilitation (planned in September 2003). The
    construction of a purification plant in ZhongXian (completion expected in July 2005), to be locally
    financed in totality, is essentially needed to provide a spare capacity to the present purification system,
    and to follow the increase of the production in the coming years.

    A specific effort was also sustained in any technical activities to reduce gas releases to the atmosphere
    and to improve the protection of the environment. Today, drilling operation is totally respectful of the
    environment (recycling of mud, separation of debris) and 100% of waste waters produced in operation
    are treated to meet the standards for re-injection or for disposal. On the network more than 1640
    valves and around 270 regulators or safety valves have been replaced to avoid fugitive emission of
    methane. This effort will be pursued in the coming years toward the gas quality (Improvement of the
    filtration) to limit possible internal damages of the equipment and subsequent release of gas.

    The essential lesson learnt from the project relates to the management of this kind of vast plan which
    covers technical, financial and economical fields, as well as institutional development. To manage such
    a project, it is essential i) to prepare a stable project Team which will follow up the totality of the
    project components from the beginning to the end, ii) to rely upon a technical collaboration with an
    experienced Company of the domain.

    As a conclusion the achievements have enabled the improvement of the global system from gas
    production to gas deliveries, and the conditions for a sustainable development and for a reliable safe
    operation in the respect of the environment are now gathered.


(b) Cofinanciers:



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

'



                                                     - 21 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate


Restructuring of the Borrower's upstream oil Initiate the first phase i.e. commercialization Core operations of CNPC and SPA
and gas sector                               and corporatization of CNPC and SPA             restructured in 1999 and consolidated into
                                                                                             PetroChina Ltd. (PCL). In April, 2000 PCL
                                                                                             successfully carried out an IPO of 10% of its
                                                                                             shares in international stock markets for total
                                                                                             value of RMB 2 billion (US$2.5 billion). In the
                                                                                             wake of this reform SINOPEC and CNOOC
                                                                                             were also restructured.

SPA's gas resource development               · Gas reserves to increase by 70 billion cubic · Reserves increased by 267 billion cubic
                                             meters                                          meters.

                                             · Production declined to be reversed            · Production decline reversed from ­10% to
                                                                                             +6% over the project period

                                             · Production of 8.0 billion cubic meters per    · Production of 8 billion cubic meters/year
                                             year to be achieved by year 2000 and to be      achieved by the year 2000. Current capability
                                             maintained at this level for 6-7 year.          is 10 billion cubic meters/year. Production of
                                                                                             9 billion cubic meters/year is projected for the
                                                                                             year 2003.

Expansion and rehabilitation of gas          For safe and efficient transport of 8 billion   Achieved. Capable of transporting 10 billion
processing transport infrastructure          cubic meters/year                               cubic meters/year. It is in full compliance with
                                                                                             Chinese standards as regards safe and
                                                                                             efficient operations.

Gas Tariff                                   Rationalize to achieve at least 12% FIRR        Average price gradually increased from
                                                                                             RMB389/thousand cubic meters in 1994 to
                                                                                             RMB743.83/thousand cubic meters in 2003.
                                                                                             According to the latest estimate FIRR is 13%

Minimize fugitive methane emission                                                           Declined from 3.7% in 1997 to 0.43% in
incidence                                                                                    2003

Pollution abatement                                                                          With economic growth averaging 10%, the
                                                                                             share of natural gas and coal in Sichuan's
                                                                                             commercial consumption respectively
                                                                                             changed from 11% and 74% in 1990 to 15%
                                                                                             and 50% in 2002. In 2002, natural gas
                                                                                             substituted about 5 million tons of coal in
                                                                                             Sichuan




                                                                  - 23 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate


Gas fields development and rehabilitation  · Acquisition of about 8,800 line kilometers of · About 12,300 line kilometers of seismic
                                           seismic survey and      interpretation          data and interpretation acquired

                                           · Rehabilitation of 190 wells
                                                                                           · 197 wells rehabilitated
                                           · Drilling of 100 development wells
                                                                                           · 128 development wells drilled


Expansion and rehabilitation of gas                                                        · Purification capacity enhanced from 5
processing and transport infrastructure                                                    billion cubic meters/year in 1999 to 8 billion
                                                                                           cubic meters/year in 2003

                                                                                           · As of November 2001, entry of
                                                                                           non-specification gas into the transportation
                                                                                           system eliminated

                                                                                           · Achieved. New carriers with a cumulative
                                                                                           length of 338 kilometers built, old pipeline
                                                                                           sections with a cumulative length of 926
                                                                                           kilometers repaired and 167 monitoring and
                                                                                           control facilities upgraded. Some
                                                                                           rehabilitation works delayed due to SARS
                                                                                           and are now scheduled to be completed by
                                                                                           end 2003.


Institution building                                                                       · Expertise of 704 staff in CNPC and 1736
                                                                                           staff in SPA/PCL Southwest upgraded.

                                                                                           · SPA/PCL Southwest's gas transmission
                                                                                           and distribution operations, scattered over
                                                                                           five gas producing regions, partially
                                                                                           consolidated into two departments namely the
                                                                                           Gas Transmission and Distribution
                                                                                           Department covering Sichuan Province and
                                                                                           the Gas Transmission and Distribution
                                                                                           Section covering Chongqing Municipality;
                                                                                           further consolidation was not possible due to
                                                                                           separation of Chongqing Municipality from
                                                                                           Sichuan Province.


1End of project




                                                              - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                         Project Cost Breakdown by Components (US$ million)


             COMPONENTS                                      APPRAISAL                     ACTUAL/ESTIMATE
                                                   Local        Foreign         Total  Local   Foreign  Total
Gas Fields Development                            296.09        202.69        498.78   481.93  137.46   619.39
Dehydration/Desulfurization                        40.26          23.50         63.76   23.95    9.42    33.37
Fields Stimulations/Rehabilitation                 85.15          29.97       115.12    35.18   18.07    53.25
Gas Transmission Expansion                         43.14          30.96         74.10   58.33    6.48    64.81
Gas Transmission Rehabilitation                    30.51          53.10         83.61   79.07   21.82   100.89
Gas Transmission Environment Upgrade                4.38          20.02         24.40   4.31    11.36    15.67
Technical Assistance/Training                       0.88          17.16         18.04   1.31    14.14    15.45
Total Base Costs                                  500.40        377.40        877.80   684.08  218.75   902.83
         1. Actual includes estimate of remaining disbursements.
         2. Price/physical contingencies included in above for ease of comparison.
         3. The project was exempt from taxes and duties.
         4. Costs do not include interest during construction.
         5. Figures rounded to second decimal place.




                                                            - 25 -

           Project Cost Breakdown by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)


     Expenditure Category                               APPRAISAL                                   ACTUAL/ESTIMATE
                                        ICB          Other         NBF         Totals       ICB        Other       NBF      Totals
 Works                                                             131.9       131.9
 Well access roads/drilling sites                                                                                           144.75
 and fields surface facilities                                                                                     63.99
 Gas transmission system                                                                                           49.70
 Gas processing                                                                                                     4.10
 Resettlement                                                                                                      26.96
 Equipment and Materials
 Fields development drilling and        102.1          18.7        145.8       266.6       102.01      21.48       207.77   331.26
 rehabilitation                        (102.1)        (18.7)                  (120.8)     (102.01)    (21.48)              (123.49)
 Seismic surveys                         8.0            5.8         2.0         15.8       20.64       11.46        9.20    41.30
                                        (8.0)          (5.8)                   (13.8)     (20.64)     (11.46)               (32.10)
 Gas treatment and field surface         19.5                       82.0       101.7       32.33                   96.09    128.42
 facilities                             (19.5)                                 (19.5)     (32.33)                          (32.33)
 Gas transmission and                    76.3                       36.0       112.3       16.70                   94.96    111.66
 distribution system                    (76.3)                                 (76.3)     (16.70)                           (16.70)
 Technical Services                                     7.0        224.2       231.2                    0.84       130.05   130.89
                                                       (7.0)                   (7.0)                   (0.84)               (0.84)
 Consultancy and Training                               4.3         0.3         4.6                     4.10        0.24     4.34
 Capacity building                                     (4.3)                   (4.3)                   (4.10)               (4.10)
 Project Implementation                                 0.5         0.2         0.7                                          0.00
 Support                                               (0.5)                   (0.5)
 Training                                              12.8         0.3         13.1                    9.19        1.02    10.21
                                                      (12.8)                   (12.8)                  (9.19)               (9.19)
 Total                                  205.9          49.1        622.9       877.9       171.68      47.07       684.08   902.83
                                       (205.9)        (49.1)                   (255)      (171.68)    (47.07)              (218.75)
 1. "Other" includes limited international bidding, direct purchase, shopping and consultant services (procured in
     accordance with Bank Guidelines) and training.
 2. NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
 3. Technical services include directional drilling, electric logging, well connecting, production and stimulation.
 4. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank.
 5. figures rounded to second decimal place.


                                       Project Financing (US$million)


          COMPONENTS                                      APPRAISAL                              ACTUAL/ESTIMATE
                                                Local          Foreign         Total        Local         Foreign       Total
GEF                                                              10.0           10.0                         9.86        9.86
SPA/CNPC/PCL                                    500.4           179.7          680.2        717.23                      717.23
IBRD                                                            255.0          255.0                      208.89        208.89
Total                                           500.4           444.7          945.2        717.23        218.75        935.98
      Note: Figures include interest during construction




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Assumptions for Rate of Return Calculations

Sales: The data for 1995-2002 are actual. After 2003, decreased incremental production is
assumed in response to the depletion of wells developed and rehabilitated under the Project.
Share of the sales to each customer category remains same as the actual share in 2002. Self-use
and transmission losses of the gas are assumed to be 5% after 2003 based on the 2002 actual.

Gas price: The data for 1995-2002 are actual. Price is assumed to be constant in real terms after
2003. City gate prices, including well-head price, processing fee and transportation fees, are used
for analyses.

Exchange rate: Exchange rate adopted are RMB8.46/US$ in 1994, 8.32 in 1995, 8.30 in 1996,
8.28 during 1997-1998, 8.27 in 1999, 8.28 during 2000-2002, and 8.27 after 2003.

Operating costs: Operating costs include administration, and maintenance costs. The data for
1995-2002 are actual. It is assumed to be RMB312 per thousand cubic meters of gas produced
after 2003 based on the 2002 actual.




                                               - 27 -

Project Economical Analysis
                                                                                        Sichuan Gas Development & Conservation Project

                                                                                                           (Loan NO:3716-CHA)

                                                                                                          Project Economic Analysis

                                                                                                               (in million Yuan)
                                       unit         1994     1995     1996    1997     1998     1999     2000     2001    2002     2003    2004    2005    2006   2007    2008    2009     2010     2011     2012  2013 2014   2015
Incremental Production
    Natural Gas                      (bcm)                     0.8      1.9     2.9      2.6      3.9      4.8      4.5     4.2     4.1      3.9    3.8      3.7    3.5     3.4     3.2      3.3      3.1      2.8  2.5   2.3    2.2
    Condensate                  (thousand ton)                 1.7      3.9     4.5      5.0      5.5      5.1      4.8     4.3     4.1      3.8    3.7      3.5    3.3     3.2     3.0      2.9      2.8      2.7  2.6   2.6    2.6


Prices
Average gas price with VAT        (Yuan/mcm)                  587       626     664     674       682     673      679     718      720     720     720     720    720     720     720      720      720      720   720  720    720
Condensate with VAT               (Yuan/ ton)               1,355 1,521 1,665 1,668 1,647 1,657 1,967 1,553 2,228 1,933 1,592 1,412 1,312 1,322 1,331 1,339 1,347 1,337 1,327 1,316                                           1,306


Benefits
    Income-gas                                                429 1,142 1,829 1,659 2,437 3,087 2,886 2,870 2,805 2,668 2,600 2,531 2,394 2,326 2,189 2,258 2,121 1,915 1,710 1,573                                           1,505
    Income-condensate                                             2       6       7       8          9        8       9        7      9        7      6       5       4       4        4       4         4       4    3    3       3
       Total Cash Inflow                                      432 1,148 1,837 1,667 2,446 3,095 2,896 2,876 2,814 2,675 2,605 2,536 2,399 2,330 2,193 2,261 2,124 1,919 1,714 1,577                                           1,508


Costs
    Operating Cost                                            288       658     988     888 1,337 1,465 1,411 1,310 1,254 1,213 1,182 1,151 1,089 1,057                            995 1,026         964      871   778  715    684
    Capital Cost                                      419     849       952     992     989 1,043 1,184            533     702      237
      Total Cash Outflow                              419 1,138 1,611 1,981 1,876 2,380 2,649 1,944 2,013 1,492 1,213 1,182 1,151 1,089 1,057                                      995 1,026         964      871   778  715    684


Net Benefits                                         -419    -706      -462    -144    -209        66     447      952     864 1,322 1,462 1,424 1,385 1,310 1,273 1,198 1,235 1,160 1,048                          936  862    824
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IRR    23.8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NPV    6,596

Source: PetroChina Southwest

                           Note: 1. Commerial Sales of gas is assumed to be 95% of production after 2003.

                                 2. Prices of gas and unit operating costs are held constant in real term after 2003. Prices of condensate are assumed to be 123% of WB's petroleum price projection after 2003.

                                 3. Prices stated at constant price of 2002.

                                 4. NPV is discounted to year 2002.
Project Financial Analysis
                                                                                        Sichuan Gas Development & Conservation Project

                                                                                                           (Loan NO:3716-CHA)

                                                                                                   Project Financial Analysis (Real Term)

                                                                                                              (in million Yuan)
                                        unit         1994     1995      1996   1997    1998      1999     2000     2001    2002     2003    2004    2005   2006    2007    2008    2009     2010     2011     2012  2013 2014  2015
Incremental Production
    Natural Gas                        (bcm)                    0.8      1.9     2.9      2.6      3.9       4.8     4.5     4.2     4.1      3.9    3.8      3.7    3.5     3.4     3.2      3.3       3.1     2.8  2.5  2.3    2.2
    Condensate                   (thousand ton)                 1.7      3.9     4.5      5.0      5.5       5.1     4.8     4.3     4.1      3.8    3.7      3.5    3.3     3.2     3.0      2.9       2.8     2.7  2.6  2.6    2.6


Prices
Gas price without VAT              (Yuan/mcm)                  519       554    588      596      603       596     601      636     636     636    636      636     636    636     636       636      636      636 636   636   636
Condensate price without VAT       (Yuan/ ton)               1,199 1,346 1,473 1,476 1,458 1,466 1,741 1,374 1,972 1,711 1,409 1,250 1,161 1,170 1,178 1,185 1,192 1,183 1,174 1,165 1,156


Benefits
    Income-gas                                                 380 1,011 1,619 1,468 2,155 2,733 2,556 2,543 2,477 2,356 2,296 2,236 2,115 2,054 1,933 1,994 1,873 1,692 1,511 1,390 1,329
    Income-condensate                                              2       5        7       7         8        7        8       6      8        7      5       4      4         4       4        3         3     3    3     3     3
        Total Cash Inflow                                      382 1,016 1,626 1,475 2,163 2,741 2,564 2,549 2,485 2,363 2,301 2,240 2,119 2,058 1,937 1,997 1,876 1,695 1,514 1,393 1,332


Costs
    Operating Cost                                             288       658    988      888 1,337 1,465 1,411 1,310 1,254 1,213 1,182 1,151 1,089 1,057                            995 1,026          964      871 778   715   684
    Capital Cost                                       419     849       952    992      989 1,043 1,184            533      702     237
    Sales Tax                                                    21       55      87      79      116       148     138      137     134     127    124      121     114    111     104       108      101       91  82    75    72
    Custom Duty                                                            9        5       0       18       10      0.4     0.6
       Total Cash Outflow                              419 1,158 1,674 2,073 1,955 2,514 2,807 2,083 2,151 1,625 1,340 1,306 1,271 1,203 1,168 1,100 1,134 1,065                                                962 859   790   756


Net Benefits                                          -419    -776      -658    -447    -480      -351       -66    481      399     860 1,023      995      968     916    890     837       863      811      733 654   602   576
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRR   12.7%


Source: PetroChina Southwest

                            Note: 1. Commerial Sales of gas is assumed to be 95% of production after 2003.

                                  2. Average gas prices do not include VAT.

                                  3. Prices of gas and unit operating costs are held constant in real term after 2003. Prices of condensate are assumed to be 123% of WB's petroleum price projection after 2003.

                                  4. Prices stated at constant price of 2002.




                                                                                                         - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/04-06/09/1992           2    Financial Analysts (2)
              07/12-07/18/1992           2    Petroleum Geologist (1)
                                              Petroleum Engineer (1)
              02/21-03/07/1993         11     Gas Specialist (1)
                                              Financial Analysts (4)
                                              Energy Economists (3)
                                              Lawyer (1)
                                              Environmental Specialist (1)
                                              Petroleum Engineer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/13-07/01/1993           9    Financial Analysts (3)
                                              Gas Specialist (1)
                                              Energy Economists (2)
                                              Petroleum Engineer (1)
                                              Geologist (1)
                                              Environmental Specialist (1)
              CNPC                       2    Petroleum Enginer (1)
              Restructuring                   Energy Economist (1)
              Study Review
              08/08/-08/11/1994

 Supervision
              12/19-12/23/1994           2    Petroleum Engineer (1)              S               S
                                              Procurement Specialist (1)
              01/22-02/12/1996           2    Petroleum Engineer (1)              S               S
                                              Gas Specialist (1)
              04/02-04/18/1997           3    Petroleum Engineer (1)              S               S
                                              Gas Specialist (1)
                                              Energy Specialist (1)
              02/23-03/12/1998           3    Petroleum Engineer (1)              U               S
                                              Gas Specialist (1)
                                              Procurement Specialist (1)
              11/16-11/30/98             5    Gas Specialist (1)                  U               S
                                              Petroleum Engineer (1)
                                              Energy Specialists (2)
                                              Financial Analyst (1)
              05/05-05/22/1999           2    Gas specialist (1)                  S               S
                                              Petroleum Engineer (1)
              09/12-09/24/1999           5    Energy Economists (2)               S               S
                                              Oil & Gas Specialist (1)
                                              Restructuring Specialists (2)
              11/17-12/10/1999           5    Energy Specialists (2)              S               S
                                              Petroleum Engineer (1)
                                              Gas specialist (1)
                                              Legal Expert (1)



                                               - 29 -

               04/16-04/29/2000              4   Financial Analyst (1)               S    S
                                                 Energy Economist (1)
                                                 Restr./Reg. Experts (2)
               05/23-06/14/20000             2   Petroleum Engineer (1)              S    S
                                                 Gas specialist (1)
               11/28-12/19/2000              5   Petroleum Engineer (1)              S    S
                                                 Gas specialist (1)
                                                 Energy Specialists (2)
                                                 Lawyer (1)
               05/28-06/19/2001              2   Petroleum Engineer (1)              S    S
                                                 Gas specialist (1)
               11/22-12/17/2001              5   Gas specialist (1)                  S    S
                                                 Energy Specialist (1)
                                                 Financial Analyst (1)
                                                 Petroleum Engineer (1)
                                                 Procurement Specialist (1)
               06/03-6/19/2002               2   Gas specialist (1)                  S    S
                                                 Procurement Specialist (1)
               11/17-12/04/2002              2   Gas specialist (1)                  S    S
                                                 Petroleum Engineer (1)

 ICR
               07/23-08/12/2003              3    Gas Specialist (1)                 S    S
                                                  Financial Analyst (1)
                                                  Resettlement Expert (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation     (see tables below)
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total



 GEF P003404
                                              Actual/Latest Estimate
  Stage of Project Cycle                No. of             US$ ('000)
                                    Staffweeks      Direct Costs     Full Costs
Prior FYs* (1992-2003)
Identification/Preparation                 13.6          41.7             52.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                       7.4          26.5             33.1
Supervision                                86.5         229.6            572.7
            Total Prior FYs              107.5          297.8            658.0

Current FY (2004)
ICR                                         4.7                           34.2
           Total Current FY              112.2          297.8            692.2



                                                  - 30 -

 P003609
                                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
  Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of               US$ ('000)
                                         Staffweeks      Direct Costs       Full Costs
Prior FYs* (1991-2003)
Identification/Preparation                    157.6           475.3             594.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                          60.3           194.0             242.5
Supervision                                   131.3           341.4             781.2
            Total Prior FYs                   349.2         1,010.7           1,617.9

Current FY (2004)
ICR                                             8.2                              43.9
           Total Current FY                   357.4         1,010.7           1,661.8
    *Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for prior fiscal years up to
 1999.




                                                      - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
Global Environment




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




1.  Gas Reserves Study (Sproule Associates Ltd), 1993/94

2.  SPA Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Study (Novacorp International),
    1993/94

3.  Environmental Assessment Report (SPA and DHV), 1993

4.  Sichuan Gas Allocation and Pricing Study (NERA), 1993/94

5.  CNPC Restructuring Study (Coopers & Lybrand), 1994

6.  Staff Appraisal Report No. 12265-CHA of February 17, 1994

7.  Gas Market Study (Sofregaz/PCL Southwest), 1999/00

8.  Report on Workshop on China Oil & Gas Sector Regulatory Reform (IESM/World
    Bank/PPIAF), December 2000

9.  Modernizing China's Oil & Gas Sector, Structural Reform and Regulation
    (IESM/World Bank), March 2001

10. Report on Workshop on China's Downstream Gas Sector Regulatory Framework
    (IESM/World Bank/PPIAF), April 2002

11. China: Economic Regulation of Long Distance Gas Transmission and Urban Gas
    Distribution (IESM/World Bank/PPIAF), August 2002

12. Draft Report on the Implementation of the Regulatory Framework of China's
    Downstream Gas Sector, May 2003

13. Aide Memoires and Annexes of supervision missions and ICR mission.

14. ICR data (August 7, 2003) from PCL Southwest.




                                           - 34 -

    Additional Annex 8. Legal Covenants




            Agreement                                     Description of Covenant                 Covenant Status
IBRD Loan Agreement and GEF                Borrower to open and maintain two separate bank             C
Grant Agreement Ref.: 2.02(b)              accounts (CNPC and SPA) acceptable to the Bank
IBRD Loan Agreement Ref.: 3.04              Borrower shall carry out the Sichuan Gas Pricing           CP
                                            and Allocation Reform Plan, agreed with the Bank,
                                            in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
IBRD Loan Agreement Ref.: 3.05              Borrower shall revise/adopt accounting standards           C
                                            for the oil and gas sector consistent with
                                            internationally accepted accounting standards
IBRD L. A & GEF G.As4.01(a)(i)              To maintain project records and accounts reflecting        C
                                            expenditures
IBRD L. A & GEF G.A. Ref.: 4.01(ii)         To retain these records and accounts for one year          C
                                            after the Bank has received the audit report
IBRD L. A & GEF G.A. Ref.: 4.01(iii)        Enable the Bank to examine such records                    C
IBRD L. A & GEF G.A. Ref.: 4.01(b)(i)       Have records referred to in 4.01(a)(i) audited.            CD
IBRD L. A / GEF G.A. Ref.: 4. 01(b)         Submit audit reports six months after the end of           CD
(ii)                                        each year.
IBRD L. A & GEF G.A. Ref.: 4. 01 (iii)      Submit reports when requested by the Bank.                 C
IBRD Project Agreement : 37160
and GEF Project Agreement:
TF028693
IBRD P. A & GEF P.A. Ref.: 2.07             Maintain Project Management Office.                        C

IBRD P. A & GEF P.A. Ref.: 2.08             Carry out environmental management program                 C
                                            (gas leak detection and reduction)
IBRD P. A.Ref.: 2.09                        Carry out internal audit action plan.                      C
IBRD P. A & GEF P.A. Ref.: 3.03             PCL shall take out and maintain with responsible           C
                                            insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
                                            the Bank for insurance against such risks and in
                                            such amounts as shall be consistent with
                                            appropriate practice.
IBRD P. A & GEF P.A. Ref.: 4.01             PCL maintain records and accounts of the project           C
(a&b)                                       expenditures
IBRD P. A. Ref.: 4.01(c)/                   PCL project records audited and furnished to the           C
GEF PA 4.01 b                               Bank no later than six months of each year.
IBRD P. A. Ref.: 4.02(a)                    Operating Revenues.                                        C
IBRD P. A. Ref.: 4.02(b)                    Cash Generation.                                           C
IBRD P. A. Ref.: 4.02(c)                    Internal Rate of Return 12%.                               C
IBRD P. A. Ref.: 4.03                       PCL Southwest furnish annually a rolling                   C
                                            long-term financial plan and exchange views with
                                            Bank.
Notes: C ­ complied with; CD ­ Complied with after delay (due to SARs)




                                                            - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Resettlement

                       Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project

                                        Report on Resettlement


This report is based on a review conducted by a Bank mission which visited China in July 2003 for the
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report of the project. It covers the resettlement actions
taken by the agency responsible (SPA/PCL Southwest) for the implementation of investment component of
the project. It includes, the scope of concerned project activities and related acquisition/ settlement,
compensation policy and rehabilitation measures, institutional arrangements and the outcome.

         Scope

Resettlement activities under the project pertained to the drilling of 128 gas wells including a few water
removing facilities and the construction of pipelines of about 1000 kilometers cumulative length. These
activities were spread over eleven counties in Chongqing Municipality and Sichuan Province. A typical gas
well required permanent acquisition of about 18 mu (15 mu equal 1 hectare) of land while temporary
occupation of an average of about 11 mu per km of pipeline built was needed for pipeline construction.
According to the statistics provided by the implementing agency, a total of 14,130 mu or 942 hectares of
land areas were acquired for the project, including 11,680 mu or 779 hectares for temporary land
occupation and 2,450 mu or 163 hectares for permanent land acquisition.             The actual permanent
acquisition of land was 27 hectares or 14% less and the actual temporary land occupation was 79 hectares
or 11% more than the appraisal estimate. The project activities and related acquisitions are summarized in
the following table.

Scope of Land Acquisition and Resettlement for Sichuan Gas Development Project
                                Permanent land     Temporary land        Total land
   Types of Component             acquisition         occupation         Acquisition
                                  (hectares)           (hectares)        (hectares)
 Gas Wells & facilities             161.7                 64.8             226.5
 Gas Pipelines                        1.6                714.0             715.6
 Total                              163.3                778.8             942.1


Compensation Policy and Rehabilitation Measures

Land acquisition and resettlement was conducted in accordance with the laws of the People's Republic of
China, and the regulations of Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality. The compensation for
permanent land acquisition included the entitlements of the affected parties and the government taxes and
fees.

A total of RMB223.8 million was paid as compensation. Of which, RMB166.5 million was for permanent
land acquisition and RMB57.3 million was for temporary land occupation. Average compensation for
permanent and temporary acquisition averaged RMB67, 951 per mu and RMB4,906 per mu respectively.

The compensation for permanent land acquisition involved in the various project activities ranged from
RMB54,000 to RMB73,000 per mu. Of which, around RMB15,000 to RMB20,000 were paid to the



                                                  - 36 -

affected parties (based on 15 to 20 times the annual output value) and the rest as fees and taxes to the
national, provincial and municipal governments.

The compensation for temporary use covered value of lost crops, and the restoration cost of the land,
dwellings and attachments such as trees. It ranged from RMB1,200 to RMB12,000 per mu. The reason for
such wide range of difference is that some pipeline construction involved relocation of dwellings and
attachments, while in other cases only the occupation of arable land was involved.

Given the fact that almost all acquired lands are paddy land, with an average yield of around RMB1000 to
RMB1200 per mu, the compensation paid appears adequate. The mission visited one gas well (#86)
construction site in Dianjiang County, Chongqing Municipality. A total of 13 mu of cultivated land were
acquired in Pingle Village, Shaping Township. Based on Chongqing Municipality regulations, the
compensation of Y16,000 per mu was paid to the affected group in the village, which was then divided
among all group members. Additionally, the construction of gas well brought about new business
opportunities. The villagers were quite pleased with the compensation paid and with some of the business
opportunities provided by the project.

         Institutional Arrangement

The institutional arrangements to administer the process of land acquisition and resettlement have included
a land acquisition office in PCL Southwest's head office at Chengdu and an office in the East Gas Region
at Chongqing. These offices have dealt with all permanent land acquisition issues, from consultation,
negotiation to compensation delivery. For temporary land occupation, most of compensation and
rehabilitation matters were handled by the various field construction groups. The staff has been found to
be well trained and well versed in concerned laws and regulations.

         Conclusion

The process of land acquisition, compensation and resettlement has been well conducted. It indicates
existence of well-established policies and availability of competent staff.




                                                     - 37 -

- 38 -

