Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3716 CHA
Project Agreement
(Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
and
SICHUAN PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATION
Dated September 16, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3716 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION 
(CNPC) and SICHUAN PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATION (SPA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and fifty 
five million dollars ($255,000,000), on the  terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CNPC and SPA agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CNPC and the Borrower and SPA, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be relent to CNPC and SPA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS CNPC and SPA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CNPC and SPA declare their commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part E.2 and Parts B, C, D and E.1 respectively of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part E.2 and Parts B, C, D and E.1 respectively of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. CNPC and SPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part E.2 and Parts B, C, D and E.1 respectively of the Project.
Section 2.04. CNPC and SPA shall duly perform all their obligations under their 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CNPC 
and SPA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CNPC and SPA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part E.2 and Parts B, C, D and E.1 
respectively of the Project, the performance of their respective obligations under 
this Agreement and under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CNPC and SPA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part E.2 and Parts B, C, D 
and E.1 respectively of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, 
or the performance by CNPC or SPA of their respective obligations under this Agreement 
and under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 2.06. CNPC and SPA shall carry out the training and technical assistance 
under Parts E.2 and E.1 respectively of the Project in accordance with a program 
agreed with the Bank and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. SPA shall maintain the Project Management Office established by it 
with functions, powers, funds, facilities, and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08. SPA shall carry out an environmental management program including 
the regular gas leak detection and maintenance program, agreed with the Bank, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.09. SPA shall, by December 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank an action 
plan to strengthen its internal audit function and, thereafter, implement the said 
plan taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CNPC and SPA
Page  3
Section 3.01. CNPC and SPA shall each carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CNPC and SPA shall each at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and
environmental practices.
Section 3.03. CNPC and SPA shall each take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CNPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Part E.2 of the Project.
(b)
SPA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(c)
CNPC and SPA shall each:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of this 
Section, respectively, and SPA shall have its financial 
statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and of sources 
and uses of funds) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall from time 
to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce, for its 
operations as a whole and for its operations related to each of gas production, 
purification and transmission, respectively, total operating revenues equivalent to 
not less than the sum of: (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which 
financial obligations exceed the provision for depreciation and any other non-cash 
operating expenses.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall take all such 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of levels of its tariffs and 
improvements in operational efficiency) as shall be required to produce net cash 
surplus equivalent to not less than fifty percent (50%) of its average annual 
investment program.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall take all such 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the levels of its tariffs and 
improvements in operational efficiency) as shall be required to achieve a financial 
internal rate of return of not less than 12% (in real terms) for the Project.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  4
(i)
The term "total operating revenues" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance, administration and 
depreciation.
(iv)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt; 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, 
if any); all taxes or 
payments in lieu of taxes; allocations 
to special funds and other cash 
distributions of surplus funds 
(including mandatory transfers to the 
government); and any other 
cash outflows (other than capital expenditures) 
related to 
operations.
(v)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration 
but excluding 
depreciation.
 
(vi)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of a Company maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(vii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(viii) The term "internal cash generation" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating expenses 
and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(ix)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating  income minus 
the sum of: 
(A) cash operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations.
 
(x)
The term "average annual investment program" means the average of: 
(A) the 
previous year's actual capital expenditures; (B) the 
current year's planned 
capital expenditure; and (C) the next year's 
projected capital expenditure.
(xi)
The term "financial internal rate of return" means the discount 
rate which 
leads to a net present value of zero when discounting 
the net cash flow over 
the Project's 20-year life.
 
(xii)
The term "net cash flow" means total operating income from the 
Project minus 
the sum of; (A) capital expenditures relating to the 
Project; and (B) the sum 
of all cash expenses related to the operations 
of the Project, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for 
Page  5
depreciation, other non-cash operating expenses and 
interest and other 
charges on debt.
(xiii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of Renminbi, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. SPA shall, by September 30 of each year commencing in 1994, 
furnish annually to the Bank a rolling long-term financial plan (including projected 
income statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets for a period of no 
less than eight years) and exchange views with the Bank on its financial position, 
focusing on comparison of actual financial performance with agreed targets, operating 
cost trend, future investment and related financing arrangements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CNPC and SPA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CNPC and SPA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For CNPC:
China National Petroleum Corporation
P.O. Box 766
Post Code 100724
Page  6
Liu Pu Kang
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Beijing 3112
22312 PCPRCCN
Beijing
For SPA:
Sichuan Petroleum Administration
3 Block 1, Fuqing Road
P.O. Box 55
Chengdu, Sichuan
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3111 Chengdu
60203 SPA CN
Chengdu
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CNPC or SPA, 
or by CNPC or SPA on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Director or such other person or persons as its Director shall 
designate in writing, and CNPC and SPA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
SICHUAN PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATION
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
Page  7
