Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT AGREEMENT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3716 CHA
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028693
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Sichuan Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Project)
(A Compomnent of Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated September 16, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028693
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank), pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of 
the GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided 
resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the 
Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and 
in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
Page  2
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of the GET 
in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such assistance 
would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Project is a part of the Sichuan Gas Development and 
Conservation Project for which the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide 
additional financing and by an agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and 
the Bank, the Bank intends to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to two hundred and fifty five million dollars ($255,000,000) (the Loan); 
and
WHEREAS (E) the Project will be carried out by Sichuan Petroleum Administration 
(SPA) with the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient 
will make available to SPA the proceeds of the GET Grant as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
 
(iii)
Section 3.01;
 
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
 
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
 
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
 
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
 
(x)
Article XI; and
 
(xi)
Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
 
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
 
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 
"21. 'Special Drawing Rights' and the symbol 'SDR' mean 
special drawing rights 
as valued by the International Monetary Fund 
in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement";
 
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee 
Page  3
except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development acting 
in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
 
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
 
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GET Grant; and
 
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET 
Grant Account.
 
(c)
A new sub-paragraph shall be added after sub-paragraph (j) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "An extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from GET." 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions (as herein modified) and 
in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Bank Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated  January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Bank Loan Agreement;
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Trustee and SPA, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)
"SPA" means Sichuan Petroleum Administration, a state-owned enterprise 
organized and existing, pursuant to its Charter dated May 12, 1993, under the laws of 
the People's Republic of China;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(e)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means the sub-grant agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and SPA, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) to this Agreement, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Sub-grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven milion three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Page  4
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payments under 
this Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of 
the Project from GET.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
cause SPA to perform all its
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SPA to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Recipient shall make available the proceeds of the GET Grant to SPA 
under a sub-grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and SPA, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Sub-grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GET Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Sub-grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Recipient shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
six months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Trustee shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SPA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter of SPA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SPA to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SPA or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
The Bank Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by November 
30, 1994 or such later date as the Trustee may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Trustee that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or 
grant made to the Recipient for the financing 
of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms thereof, or
 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee 
that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Recipient to perform 
any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, this 
Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties. 
Page  6
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C. as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
                            Amount of the
                          GET Grant Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in              Expenditures
       Category            SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1)  Goods under             7,300,000                100% of foreign
     Part                                             expenditures,
     A(c)(v)-(viii)                                   100% of local
     of the Project                                   expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and 75%
                                                      of local expen-
                                                      ditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
                             _________
                       TOTAL 7,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GET Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $250,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in its efforts to 
reduce methane emissions, enhance the operational efficiency and safety of gas 
transmission and distribution in Sichuan, and to strengthen the institutional 
capabilities of SPA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation
 
Rehabilitation of SPA's gas transmission and distribution systems including (a) 
rehabilitation and upgrading of pipelines, measurement, corrosion control, corrosion 
inhibition, telecommunication, gas control, gas quality monitoring and emergency 
response facilities of SPA's entire gas transmission and distribution system; (b) 
deterioration monitoring and evaluation of the transmission and distribution system; 
(c) environmental upgrades to reduce methane emissions through: (i) installation of 
additional valves at the vent stacks of both the gas gathering and transmission 
systems; (ii) installation of chained caps or plugs on open ended pipelines; (iii) 
upgrading or replacement of the seals of control valves; (iv) replacement of high 
performance compressor seals; (v) upgrading of the seals of block valves; (vi) the 
implementation of comprehensive gas leak detection and repair programs, including 
repair or replacement of various  types of valves (control valves, block valves and 
pressure relief valves); (vii) plugging of open-ended lines; and (viii) provision of 
methane-emission monitoring equipment.
Part B:
Institutional Building
 
Institutional strengthening of SPA through technical assistance and training 
including provision of in-country and overseas training of SPA staff in gas 
transmission and distribution.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall
furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as 
the Trustee shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments 
Page  9
in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant Account under 
the respective 
eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Category less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
