Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3716 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 16, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3716 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Global Environment Trust Fund 
(GET), administered by the Bank, a grant (the GET Grant) in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 7,300,000) to assist in financing Part D (c) of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the GET Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Bank acting as administrator of GET;
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, and Part E.2 
of the Project will be carried out by China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and 
Parts B, C, D, and E.1 of the Project will be carried out by Sichuan Petroleum 
Administration (SPA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to CNPC and SPA the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
Page  2
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CNPC 
and SPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CNPC" means China National Petroleum Corporation, a state owned 
enterprise organized and existing, pursuant to its Charter dated December 7, 1988, 
under the laws of the People's Republic of China.
(b)
"Oil and Gas Restructuring Program" means the Borrower's oil and gas 
restructuring program and includes the restructuring action plan formulated or to be 
formulated pursuant to the technical assistance provided under the Japanese Grant 
Agreement (Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project), dated February 12, 1993, 
between the Borrower and the Bank (acting on its own behalf and as Administrator of 
grant funds provided by Japan).
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CNPC and SPA 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(d)
"Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights 
as valued by the International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement".
(e)
"SPA" means the Sichuan Petroleum Administration, a state owned 
enterprise organized and existing, pursuant to its Charter dated May 12, 1993, under 
the laws of the People's Republic of China.
(f)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(g)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CNPC and the Borrower and SPA respectively pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(h)
"technical services" means well drilling, seismic surveys and other 
activities associated therewith.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
Page  3
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred and fifty five 
million dollars ($255,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two separate special deposit accounts, each for Part E.2 and Parts B, D and 
E.1 respectively, in a bank or banks, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including  appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each of the Special Accounts shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
Page  4
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, cause CNPC and SPA to perform all their 
respective obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or  appropriate to enable CNPC and SPA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to CNPC and SPA under 
separate subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and CNPC 
and the Borrower and SPA, under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed to 
by the Bank which shall include: (i) the proceeds of each subsidiary loan shall be 
repaid over a period of twenty years, including five years of grace; (ii) CNPC and SPA 
shall each pay interest on the principal amount of its subsidiary loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at the rate calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 
of this Agreement; (iii) CNPC and SPA shall each pay to the Borrower a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of its subsidiary loan not withdrawn from time to time 
at the rate stated in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) CNPC and SPA shall each 
bear the foreign exchange risk in respect of its subsidiary loan.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend,  abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part E.2 and 
Parts B, C, D, and E.1 of the Project shall be carried out by CNPC and SPA 
respectively pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Sichuan Gas Pricing and 
Allocation Reform Action Plan, agreed with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall revise and adopt accounting standards for the 
oil and gas sector consistent with internationally accepted accounting standards.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CNPC or SPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CNPC or SPA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter of CNPC or SPA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CNPC or SPA 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNPC or SPA or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(e)
The GET Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by November 
30, 1994 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
Page  6
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms thereof, or
 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed by the parties thereto; 
and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CNPC 
and SPA, and is legally binding upon CNPC and SPA in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CNPC and the Borrower and SPA respectively and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and CNPC and the Borrower and SPA respectively in accordance with 
their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  7
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  8
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)       Goods and                140,800,000      100% of foreign
          technical                                 expenditures,100%
          services under                            of local expendi-
          Part B                                    tures (ex-factory
          of the Project                            cost) and 75% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(2)       Goods under                               100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,100%
          (a) Part E.2(c)              700,000      of local expendi-
          of the Project                            tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
          (b) Parts D               40,100,000      local expenditures
          of the Project                            for other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)       Goods under Part C        33,200,000      100% of foreign
          of the Project                            expenditures,100%
                                                    of local expendi-
                                                    tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items procured
                                                    locally
(4)       Consultants'                              100%
          services and
          training under
          (a) Parts E.2(a)           3,800,000
          and (b) of the
          Project
          (b) Part E.1              11,400,000
          of the Project
(5)       Unallocated               25,000,000
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    255,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Page  9
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (4) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1993; and (b) under Category 
(3), unless arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been made to ensure the 
safety of the gas transmission and distribution pursuant to Part C of the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for training and goods 
(not exceeding $400,000 equivalent), under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the restructuring of the 
Borrower's upstream oil and gas sector; (b) promote the development and conservation 
of gas resources in an economic efficient and environmentally sound manner; and (c) 
strengthen the institutional capabilities of CNPC and SPA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Oil and Gas Sector Restructuring
 
Initiation of the first phase of the Oil and Gas Restructuring Program through, 
inter alia, commercialization and corporatization of CNPC and SPA, introduction of a 
commercial accounting system, and implementation of productivity enhancement and 
related human resources development programs.
Part B:
Gas Fields Development and Rehabilitation
 
1.
Development of proven gas reserves in about fourteen selected gas fields in East 
Sichuan through: (a) drilling of about 100 infill development wells; (b) acquisition 
of about 8,800 line-kilometers seismic survey and interpretation; and (c) construction 
of surface facilities consisting of gas gathering systems, gas dehydration and 
formation water treatment units.
2.
Rehabilitation of old gas wells, about 90 in East Sichuan and 100 in Central 
Sichuan, through work-over, reservoir stimulation and well re-completion.
3.
Provision of state-of-the-art technology, equipment and materials for 
geophysical surveys, gas well drilling and completion, and production and 
environmental management.
Part C:
Expansion of Gas Transmission and Distribution
 
1.
Construction of desulfurization plants.
 
2.
Installation of gas transmission and distribution system through the 
construction of: (a) about 18-20 inch diameter x 35 kilometers long loop line from 
Fuying to Naxi; (b) about 18 inch diameter x 16 kilometers long loop line from Wubaiti 
to Jiangzhi; (c) about 18 inch diameter x 71
kilometers long loop line from Wolonghe to Daosuiqiao; (d) about 18-22 inch diameter x 
124 kilometers long pipeline from Jiangzhi to Wolonghe; and (e) about 10 inch diameter 
x 40 kilometers long pipeline from Fengjiawan to Wanxian, along with the related 
corrosion control, measurement and gas control facilities.
Part D:
Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation
 
Rehabilitation of SPA's gas transmission and distribution systems including (a) 
rehabilitation and upgrading of pipelines, measurement, corrosion control, corrosion 
inhibition, telecommunication, gas control, gas quality monitoring and emergency 
response facilities of SPA's entire gas transmission and distribution system; (b) 
deterioration monitoring and evaluation of the transmission and distribution system; 
(c) environmental upgrades to reduce methane emissions; and (d) provision of a 
Page  10
supervisory control and data acquisition system (SCADA) for the whole  transmission 
and distribution system.
Part E:
Institutional Building
 
1.
Institutional strengthening of SPA through technical assistance and training in 
modern petroleum technology and management including: (a) Provision of in-country and 
overseas training of SPA staff in gas field development, gas transmission and 
distribution, and financial management; (b) promotion of petroleum development; and 
(c) tariff setting. 
2.
Provision of national petroleum education including: (a) short and medium term 
overseas training; (b) lecturing by international experts in China; and (c) teaching 
materials and computer software.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
November 1, 1999                               
 4,830,000
May 1, 2000                                    
 5,005,000
November 1, 2000                               
 5,190,000
May 1, 2001                                    
 5,375,000
November 1, 2001                               
 5,575,000
May 1, 2002                                    
 5,775,000
November 1, 2002                               
 5,985,000
May 1, 2003                                    
 6,205,000
November 1, 2003                               
 6,430,000
May 1 2004                                     
 6,660,000
November 1, 2004                               
 6,905,000
May 1, 2005                                    
 7,155,000
November 1, 2005                               
 7,415,000
May 1, 2006                                    
 7,685,000
November 1, 2006                               
 7,965,000
May 1, 2007                                    
 8,255,000
November 1, 2007                               
 8,555,000
May 1, 2008                                    
 8,865,000
November 1, 2008                               
 9,185,000
May 1, 2009                                    
 9,520,000
November 1, 2009                               
 9,865,000
May 1, 2010                                   
10,225,000
November 1, 2010                              
10,595,000
May 1, 2011                                   
10,980,000
November 1, 2011                              
11,380,000
May 1, 2012                                   
11,795,000
November 1, 2012                              
12,225,000
May 1, 2013                                   
12,670,000
November 1, 2013                              
13,130,000
May 1, 2014                                   
13,600,000
 
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
Page  11
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                  
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not               
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not               
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued or agreed to by the Bank, 
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more. 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Page  12
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Specialized equipment and technical services, including coring bits, seismic 
data processing equipment and technical services for directional drilling, electric 
logging, cementing, testing, stimulation and production testing, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $25,500,000 may be  procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines 
and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items for goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Contracts for proprietary equipment may be awarded after direct negotiations 
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and technical services, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures described in Parts A.1, C.1 and C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of any of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall 
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of any of the Special 
Accounts, said procedures shall be modified  to ensure that the two conformed copies 
of the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and E of the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ and cause CNPC and SPA to employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower  shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued or agreed to by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower  shall 
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  13
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2(a) and 4(a), and 1, 
2(b) and 4(b) in respect of the Special Accounts for Part E.2 and Parts B, D and E.1 
of the Project respectively, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
and $10,000,000 in respect of the Special Accounts for Part E.2 and Parts B, D and E.1 
of the Project respectively, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in 
the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that each of the Special 
Accounts has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish each of the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in each of the Special Accounts 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of each of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposits into each of the 
Special Accounts at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into each of the 
Special Accounts such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
each of the Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of each of the Special Accounts, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into each of the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective part of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding 
Page  14
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to such part, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for such part shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in each of the Special Accounts 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
each of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) wasnot justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into each of the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into each of the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in each of the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in each of the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
