Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT AGREEMENT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3716 CHA
GRANT NUMBER TF028693
Project Agreement
(Sichuan Gas Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Project)
(A Component of Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund
and
SICHUAN PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATION
Dated September 16, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028693
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by 
participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund 
(GET) (the Trustee) and SICHUAN PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATION (SPA).
WHEREAS (A) by the GET Grant Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Recipient) and the Trustee, the Trustee has agreed to make 
available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the GET Grant Agreement, but only on condition that SPA agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Trustee as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by Sub-grant Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and SPA, 
the proceeds of the GET Grant provided for under the GET Grant Agreement will be made 
available to SPA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Sub-grant Agreement; 
and
Page  2
WHEREAS SPA, in consideration of the Trustee's entering into the GET Grant 
Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the GET Grant Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined and modified) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has 
the following meaning: "GET Grant Agreement" means the GET Grant Agreement of even 
date herewith, between the Recipient and the Trustee for the Project, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the GET Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the GET Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
Section 2.04. SPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Sub-grant 
Agreement. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Sub-grant Agreement or any  provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SPA shall, at the request of the Trustee, exchange views with 
the Trustee with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Sub-grant Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the GET Grant.
(b)
SPA shall promptly inform the Trustee of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the GET Grant, or the performance by SPA of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Sub-grant  Agreement.
Section 2.06. SPA shall carry out the training and technical assistance under 
Part B of the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the Trustee and in a 
manner satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 2.07. SPA shall maintain the Project Management Office established by it 
with functions, powers, funds, facilities, and staffing satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 2.08. SPA shall carry out an environmental management program including 
the regular gas leak detection and maintenance program, agreed with the Trustee, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Trustee.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPA
Section 3.01. SPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. SPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Trustee for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SPA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SPA shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and of sources 
and uses of funds) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Trustee 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GET Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Trustee and of SPA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GET Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Trustee shall promptly notify SPA 
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SPA:
Sichuan Petroleum Administration
3 Block 1, Fuqing Road
P.O. Box 55
Chengdu, Sichuan
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3111 Chengdu
60203 SPA CN
Chengdu
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SPA, or by SPA 
on behalf of the Recipient under the GET Grant Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its Director or such other person or persons as its Director shall designate in 
writing, and SPA shall furnish to the Trustee sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  5
SICHUAN PETROLEUM ADMINISTRATION
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Trustee, 
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local 
currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account 
in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Recipient 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Trustee, with such 
modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued or agreed to by the Trustee, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on 
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the GET Grant Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
Page  6
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
