Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
17155 TO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1861-TO)
November 10, 1997
Transport 2 Division (West and Central Africa)
Infrastructure Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
AGETUR          Agence d'Execution des Travaux Urbains (urban works executing agency)
BOAD            Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (West African Development Bank)
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (Former French development fund)
CER             Compte de l'Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Account)
CFD             Caisse Francaise de Developpement (French development fund - formerly the CCCE)
CFT             Chemin de Fer Togolais (Togolese railways)
CNSR            Conseil National de Securite Routiere (National Road Safety Council)
DGT             Direction G6nerale des Transports (General Directorate of Transport)
DGTP            Direction Generale des Travaux Publics (General Directorate of Public Works)
DMTP            Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics (Directorate of Public Works Equipment)
DTR             Direction des Transports Routiers (Directorate of Road Transport)
EDF             European Development Fund
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FAC             Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation (French development aid agency)
FENU            Fonds d'Equipement des Nations Unies (United Nations Capital Development Fund)
GOT             Government of Togo
HDM             Highway Design Model
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
KfW             Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau (German bilateral aid agency)
MCT             Ministry of Commerce and Transport
MEPT            Ministry of Equipment, Post and Telecommunications
MOP             Memorandum of the President
MPM             Ministry of Planning and Mines
NPV             Net Present Value
OSR             Office de Securite Routiere (Office of Road Safety)
PCR             Project Completion Report
PPAR            Project Performance Audit Report
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
RMF             Road Maintenance Fund
RTP             Road Transport Project
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SME             Small or Medium Enterprise
SNPR            Service Nationale des Pistes Rurales (National Rural Roads Unit)
TRP             Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSIP            Transport Sector Investment Program
TSS             Transport Sector Strategy
TA              Technical Assistance
tpd             trucks per day
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
vpd             vehicles per day
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:     Theodore Ahlers, AFC 13
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTT2
Task Team Leader:     Hedi Larbi, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1  1988   =      CFAF 298
1989   =      CFAF 317
1990   =      CFAF 271
1991   -      CFAF 283
1992   =      CFAF 265
1993   =      CFAF 283
1994   =      CFAF 553
1995          CFAF 495
1996   =      CFAF 511
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) =   0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (sq. km)  =  0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
I metric ton (t) =  2,204 pounds (lb.)
This document has a restricted distribution-and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I
I



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                        1
A. Introduction                                                      1
B. Project Objectives                                                2
C. Achievement of Objectives                                         4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                               7
E. Project Sustainability                                            8
F. Bank Performance                                                  8
G. Borrower Performance                                              9
H. Assessment of Outcome                                             9
I. Future Operations                                                 9
J. Key Lessons Learned                                              10
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                                   12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                     12
Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits                                  13
Table 3: Project Timetable                                          14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements                                       14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                  15
Tablc 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation                       15
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                                16
Table 8a: Program Costs                                             17
Table 8b: Program Financing                                         18
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                                18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                 19
Table 1: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                              21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions                                  21
APPENDIX                                                                        23
ICR mission Aide Memoire                                            23
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                  27






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1861-TO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Rehabilitation
Project in the Republic of Togo, for which IDA Credit 1861-TO in the amount of
US$ 40 million (SDR 31.3 million) was approved by the Board on December 15, 1987.
The Credit was declared effective on September 29, 1988.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1997, three years after the originally scheduled closing
date of June 1994. Final disbursement took place on July 15, 1997. A balance of
SDR 130,327.40 was canceled on November 5, 1997. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by European Development Fund (EDF), Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW,
German bilateral aid agency), Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement (CFD, French bilateral
aid agency), Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation (FAC, French development aid agency) and
the United Nations Development Programme (UJNDP), in an amount equivalent to
US$ 42 million.
The ICR was prepared by Rosemary M. Cubagee (consultant) and Thierry du Crest
(project assistant) of AFTT2. It was reviewed by Hedi Larbi (project task manager), and
Jerome Chevallier (AFTS3).
Preparation of the ICR is based on materials in the project files and on interviews with
Government officials and project staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by providing views reflected in the completion mission aide-memoire, and
preparing its own evaluation of project execution.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1861-TO)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
i.    Project objectives. The project objectives were to: (a) reduce transport costs through
improved management of transport infrastructure closely related to demand, including
improved regulatory and fiscal environments for the transport sector aiming at efficiency and
equity; and (b) enhance the country's earning from the transit trade.
ii.   Project description and components. These objectives were to be achieved through the
following project components: (a) measures to improve sectoral management and planning
through technical assistance and training; (b) a three-year program to improve road
maintenance (financing mechanism, road inspection, etc.); (c) a three-year program of
rehabilitation on roads for which periodic maintenance was overdue and which needed
rehabilitation to bring them to a maintainable standard; (d) a program of rehabilitation of
existing feeder roads; (e) verification of the financial status of the railway company (CFT) and
preparation of an appropriate action plan to be followed by its implementation; (f) actions to
improve road safety; (g) a number of measures to protect the phosphate installations at Kpeme
and the Lome-Aneho road from coastal erosion; (h) measures to improve cost recovery; (i)
selective upgrading of the road network; and (f) provision for studies to prepare particular
components and a future infrastructure project.
iii.   Evaluation ofproject objectives. The objectives of the project were not specific enough.
The objectives were nevertheless consistent with the demands of Togolese economy in the late
1 980s. The link between cost recovery and road maintenance financing was not clearly
emphasized in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Equally, the issues of institutional weakness
and cumbersome procedures (particularly those of procurement) were not sufficiently
addressed. Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) activities lacked focus as a result of a
confusing design between a sector program and an investment project, and IDA financed
activities were not properly specified. However, project design was flexible enough to allow for
needed adaptation during the life of the project, particularly to respond to social problems after
the political and economic crisis of the early 1990s.
iv.   Evaluation ofproject risks. Two of the three risks envisioned in the SAR occurred:
institutional development objectives were not achieved and road maintenance financing was not
mobilized. Although it is hard to assess accurately certain project risks and foresee dramatic
changes over time, it seems that measures put forward to address identified risks were
simplistic and lacked effectiveness. Other risks more specific to the project should have been
identified, mainly: poor capacity of local construction industry, delays in implementing sector
reforms, particularly with regard to procurement procedures and malfunctioning of the
proposed road maintenance financing mechanism.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    Achievement of objectives. Overall, objectives were only partially achieved. It should
be noted that the project was interrupted by a severe political and economic crisis in Togo
between 1990-93, the effects of which are difficult to separate from inherent project
weaknesses. (a) Sector management. Public Works Directorate (DGTP) capacity in planning
and programming works was strongly reinforced, particularly during the last two years of the
project. Nevertheless, the procurement process barely improved and the road maintenance
financing mechanism was not created. The feeder road unit (SNPR) was not integrated into
DGTP, and the Directorate of Equipment (DMTP) did not achieve any improvement. (b)
Transport sector strategy. A strategy based on a participatory approach was designed and led to
far-reaching reforms in the sector, such as the contracting out of road maintenance and the
establishment of an autonomous Road Maintenance Fund. (c) Road maintenance. IDA
financed the rehabilitation of 160 kms of paved roads, periodic maintenance on national roads,
routine maintenance contracted out to small contractors (pilot operation designed to test private
sector capacity). The three-year program was only partially carried out. (d) Road safety. Few
activities were effectively carried out because none of the major institutional reforms were
implemented. (e) Labor intensive pilot operation. The pilot operation was added after the
crisis to alleviate the burden of unemployment. The executing agency, AGETUR, was created
and all planned works were executed, but after long delays. (f) Other components not financed
by IDA: management of the national railways was contracted out, the first phase of the coastal
protection component was carried out; however, the rural roads component was not carried out.
vi.   Economic evaluation. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and the Net Present Value
(NPV) were evaluated for the two rehabilitated sections by using the latest traffic count and
Vehicle Operating Costs computed by HDM-III. The Staff Appraisal Report estimated the ERR
for the rehabilitation of paved roads at between 17 and 50 percent. After effective rehabilitation,
the ERR for Lom&Kpalime is rated 41 percent and 14 percent for Tsevie-Tabligbo. The NPV
discounted at 12 percent over 20 years for those two sections is respectively CFAF 26 billion
and CFAF 0.6 billion, for an investment of CFAF 9.2 billion and CFAF 4.2 billion.
vii.   Delays. Long delays were experienced during the whole project cycle. The credit
effectiveness was 4 months behind schedule and the closing date was postponed by three years.
The crisis is one reason for these delays. However, the major structural explanations are limited
sector management capacity, cumbersome procurement process, weak political commitment
and an inexperienced private sector.
viii.  Majorfactors affecting the project. The 1991-93 political crisis was the major factor
affecting the project. Other factors affecting the project, were: weakness of the private sector
and small and medium enterprises (SMEs), withdrawal of cofinanciers, lack of counterpart
finds, delays in procurement, lack of commitment (numerous reforms were not implemented),
and force account inefficiency.
ix.   Sustainability. Project sustainability is unlikely: The project did not establish a
sustainable process for road maintenance: (a) planning and management capacity were partially
lost during the crisis; (b) the revolving Road Maintenance Account was never replenished, ncr
did the National Budget provide timely resources for network maintenance; (c) no specific
process was set up to ensure routine maintenance of rehabilitated feeder roads; and (d) although



-iii-
some actions were undertaken, no institutional framework was set up to manage national road
safety policy. On the other hand, the project failure served as a lesson for the development of a
new transport sector strategy, including far-reaching reforms, now under implementation.
x.    Bank and Borrower performance. Bank performance on the whole is mixed. Project
preparation and appraisal are judged unsatisfactory for they did not provide realistic solutions.
The presentation of the project in the SAR, which confused project and program, is an
indication of insufficient clarity in project preparation. Project supervision is mixed. There was
a lack of continuity in the staffing of supervision missions. From mid-1995, when a new team
took over, until project end improvement was real. Borrower performance has been
unsatisfactory: reforms were not implemented, counterpart funds were not provided and legal
covenants were not observed. Borrower performance eventually improved, however, during the
last two years of the project, after the crisis.
xi.   Assessment ofproject outcome. The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. The
objectives of the project have not been achieved. In the last two years of implementation,
however, the project has been instrumental in: (i) bringing about major reforms, (ii)
implementing much needed improvement in the road network, and (iii) building up capacity in
DGTP.
Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
xii.   A new operation (Road Transport Project - RTP) was approved on September 11, 1997.
It was appraised in March, 1997 and negotiated in June, 1997. The RTP has fully internalized
the lessons learned from the Transport Rehabilitation Project and its strategic studies. The Road
Transport Project focuses on new mechanisms to create a sustainable road management and
maintenance system. The second operation linked to the Transport Rehabilitation Project is the
Togo Urban Development Project, which carries on activities with AGETUR.
xiii.  The key lessons learned from project implementation are the following: (a) Importance
of supervision. Project supervision seems to have been critical to project implementation by
providing needed guidance to local road administrations, and timely technical assistance to the
decision-making process. (b) Entrenched long-term technical assistance (TA) and
untargeted training have proven ineffective. TA should be short-term and focused on
beneficiary needs. Likewise training should correspond to beneficiary-identified needs, and be
provided on site, whenever possible, by qualified trainers. (c) Counterpart funding risk. Due
to the strained fiscal situation in Togo, provision of counterpart funding was unreliable in terms
of quantity and timeliness. As long as the fiscal situation persists, counterpart funding should
be considered a major risk for any project, and mitigation measures should be put in place. (d)
Reforms subject to risks. Needed reforms should be put as up-front conditions. The time
required to change attitudes and approaches, and have this reflected in policy should be taken
into account during project preparation. (e) Weakness of the private sector. Delays and
inadequate quality of work were usual occurrences. Future operations should assess private
sector capacity and adapt local contracting accordingly. (f) Continuity between operations.
The continuity between the two road projects was remarkable, and was due to appropriate
phasing, in which preparation of the second project began before TRP credit closing date (due
to credit extension). This allowed the preparation to benefit from ongoing studies.
(g) Arangements for road maintenance financing were inadequate. Resources for road



-iv-
maintenance financing have never been provided in full or on time, even during periods of
fiscal soundness. Adequate road maintenance financing could be ensured by an independently
financed, autonomous fund, governed by road user representatives and other sector
stakeholders. This new financing arrangement has been set up under the Road Transport
Project. (h) The force account has proven to be seriously ineffective in carrying out
maintenance of road networks. Maintenance works should be contracted out to take
advantage of competition and wider skills. (i) Administrative obstacles and excessive
control by high level bureaucrats are stifling sector institutions, and prevent them from
developing adequate competencies and responding to sector needs. Particularly, procurement
procedures should be revised and simplified, and institutions should be restructured to facilitate
accountability and individual initiative. (j) Current public sector institutional arrangements
lack necessary resources and capacity to manage the dispersed feeder road network.
Partnerships between the State, local communities and donors would spread the burden for
network maintenance and management, and allow each institution to focus its efforts and
resources more effectively. (k) Donor coordination is critical to sustain sector reforms. The
Transport Sector Strategy (TSS), adopted by the Government in June 1996, provides a coherent
fiamework for future interventions, and the Transport Sector Investment Program (TSIP)
defines clear priorities to guide donor assistance. Regular meetings should be held between the
Government and donors to follow up TSS and TSIP implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1861-TO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1.    The strategy of the Togolese Government for the transport sector over the period 1988-
1990 was to consolidate past investments to ensure the economic viability of new infrastructure
and to improve the efficiency of transport operations through better cost recovery, institutional
reform and continued privatization. This strategy was also in line with the Government's
macro-economic and adjustment policies at the time. IDA supported the Government strategy
and assisted in designing the Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP). Specifically, the rationale
for IDA involvement was to help the Government implement a coherent strategy in the
transport sector comprising a realistic package of policy measures, institutional development,
sector investment and maintenance.
2.    TRP design, and the focus of IDA sectoral assistance, incorporated the lessons of 20
years of IDA assistance to the Togolese transport sector (see Box, page 2). The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for three preceding projects, the third and fourth highway
projects and the feeder road project, concluded that these operations had not advanced the road
sector to the desired standard. In 1990, when the PPAR was issued, road maintenance
standards were still too low and road sector institutions still too weak. The PPAR indicated a
need to: (i) revitalize the feeder road subsector; (ii) free sector institutions from administrative
obstacles and excessive control by senior government officials; (iii) come to terms with staffing
and training in these institutions; and (iv) confront the railway issue.
3.    The Transport Rehabilitation Project was designed and appraised in 1987, when Togo
enjoyed a sound macro-economic and fiscal situation along with sustained growth. However,
between 1991-93, the country embarked on a democratization process and underwent a severe
political and social crisis, including a general strike that lasted for almost one year. This
paralyzed the country and brought all activities to a virtual halt. Achievements during the
previous period were wiped out and institutions were severely weakened. During this period,
the Bank as well as other donors suspended all operations with the country. The Bank resumed
its operations in December 1992. In late 1993, the Bank and the Government restructured the
TRP and adjusted its main objectives and activities to the new economic and institutional
environment in the aftermath of the political crisis: preserving capital invested in the road
network, reducing transport costs and promoting employment generation through substantial
contracting out of road maintenance works to local contractors (small and medium scale
enterprises).



-2-
4.    The creftagree y ment wa  acinended nthrwee loson.Te frst namnen p t, o Apr1il
29,199, ws dne o iclue i  the pojecinalabr-nensive plot op~eration  to rat
emploodymaentt (Th and tesentttonlpoueetmehnssfrubn tablaicn works The
|~~~~~                     Prj| (Cr .9-O |c  w   ||| 
forprjet ctviie t mkeupfor tedbcrivsis-ndce the'eondt~age ocunepart fund; an th
third, ~      or eray2,19,txedtecoing date of he    Credkit dto Jue 3, 99 oj  atllow,
for completo of o n w    us lor-gensin tech nu e
9uofth|Fein~1dWo~B    Cr. Objeti ves .           1?_=
5.    Proect obectivs$i744. The originals ethiprojectobetvswere: a ordc rnpr kckost
|~      d~~      4d ea ixjc i | 1&h~out
g                                       r iofrn nt  reatucry         
4.    The credit agreement was amended on three occasions. The first amendment, on April
29, 1992, was done to include in the project a labor-intensive pilot operation to create
employment and test new institutional procurement mechanisms for urban public works. The
second, on September 29, 1994, was intended to provide for a temporary 100 percent financing
for project activities to make up for the crisis-induced shortage of counterpart funds; and the
third, on February 29, 1996, to extend the closing date of the Credit to June 30, 1997 to allow
for completion of ongolving work uing labor-intensive techniques.
B. Project Objectives
5.    Project objectives. The original project objectives were: (a) to reduce transport costs
through improved management of transport infrastructure closely related to demand, and
including an improved regulatory and fiscal environment of transport aiming at efficiency and
equity; and (b) to enhance the country's earnings from transit trade.
6.    Project description. The project components as stated in the SAR were: (a) measures
to improve sectoral management and planning through technical assistance and training; (b) a
three-year program to improve road maintenance, including: (i) increased funding through the
government budget (including foreign assistance through the investment budget); (ii)
establishment of a revolving fund mechanism to finance road maintenance (except large
periodic maintenance); (iii) development of a system of regular road inspection and routine
road maintenance in two pilot regions, including use of small contractors; (iv) execution of a



-3-
gradually increased program of contracted repairs and periodic maintenance; and (v) related
improvement in the executing agencies through reforms, technical assistance and training; (c) a
three-year program of rehabilitation on roads for which periodic maintenance was overdue and
which needed rehabilitation to bring them to a maintainable standard; (d) a program of
rehabilitation and, in some cases, reopening of existing feeder roads; (e) verification of the
financial status of the railway company, assessment of its prospects and preparation and
implementation of an appropriate action plan; (f) actions to improve road safety; (g) measures
to protect the phosphate installations at Kpeme and the Lom6-Aneho road from coastal erosion;
(h) measures to improve cost recovery; (i) selective upgrading of the road network; and (f)
provision for studies to prepare particular components and future infrastructure project.
7.    Evaluation of objectives. Project objectives were not specific enough. The objectives
were nevertheless consistent with the demands of Togolese economy in the late 1980s. The
condition of the roads and the importance of infrastructure for Togo's economic prospects
called for an ambitious sector program aimed at improving sector performance. Some remarks
can be made, however, regarding TRP objectives.
(a) The link between cost recovery and road maintenance financing was not clearly
emphasized in the SAR. A study was included in the project to address cost recovery, but it
contained no clear strategy on how to move this issue forward. The proposed mechanism to
address the lack of adequate resources for road maintenance was not adequate: the revolving
road maintenance account and the government commitment to increase its road maintenance
budget did not materialize.
(b) The issue of institutional weaknesses and cumbersome procedures (particularly
concerning procurement) were not sufficiently addressed. Management capacity of the road
administration was poor and the expected improvements, through training and technical
assistance, proved elusive. A minimum of core competencies should have been set prior to
project start-up. Eventually, the political crisis made the situation worse as talented people left
the country.
8.    TRP activities lacked focus as a result of a confusing design between sector program
and investment project. Although labeled a project, the SAR did not specify what the Credit
intended to finance. The Credit was supposed to contribute to the fmancing of a three-year-
rolling program of US$130 million. It would have been more useful had the project been more
specific on the activities. Cofinancing of most of these activities was probably the cause of this
confusion.
9.    Throughout the 1988-1997 period, however, IDA and the GOT managed to adapt
project objectives and activities to the Togolese politico-economic situation and better support
transport sector needs. The impact of the crisis on the infrastructure and social sectors was
adequately taken into account through project restructuring and Credit agreement amendments.
The Credit was reallocated to address the most urgent needs for road rehabilitation and
maintenance, and a labor-based construction component was added to alleviate the social
effects of the crisis by generating employment.
10.   Evaluation of risks. The main risks mentioned in the SAR were the possibility of not
achieving all the institutional development objectives, not resolving the main constraints to



-4-
mobilizing and disbursing adequate funding for road maintenance, and the possibility that some
donors might finance low-priority investments. The annual review of transport sector
expenditures and an enhanced coordination role for IDA were the only measures proposed in
the SAR to mitigate these risks.
11.   The first two risks did materialize, but their impact on project implementation is
difficult to assess since their effects were exacerbated by the impact of the political crisis. Other
risks, more specific to the project, should have been identified, mainly: weak capacity of the
local construction industry, delays in implementing sector reforms especially procurement
procedures, and malfunctioning of the proposed road maintenance financing mechanism.
12.   Although it is difficult to accurately assess certain project risks and foresee dramatic
changes over time, it seems that measures put forward to face identified risks were simplistic
and lacked effectiveness. Stronger and more specific measures would have helped the start-up
of the project (such as up-front reforms of the procurement code and road maintenance
financing system).
C.   Achievement of Objectives
13.   Project outcome is judged unsatisfactory. During the project life, road infrastructure
deteriorated and sector institutions lost capacity. However, given that the Government
introduced far-reaching reform of road maintenance in 1996-97, and given the impact of the
political crisis, this assessment should be qualified. The following is an assessment of the
achievements under each component.
14.   Sector management. Achievement was partial at best, but the outlook is promising.
The restructuring of DGTP took place prior to Credit effectiveness, and was of great benefit to
the Directorate. Its organizational structure was clarified and its elevation to a general
directorate improved its recognition by the Togolese administration. Relations with the
regional directorates were also improved. A road data base was created and a computerized
accounting system (double-entry accounting) was set up. Technical assistance and training had
a noticeable impact on the technical capacity of DGTP and DGT, particularly during the last
two and a half years of the project, during which about twenty new engineers received intensive
training and became highly productive in road maintenance programming and supervision, and
road safety. The ability of DGTP to plan and program works was strongly reinforced. The
feeder road unit was only integrated into DGTP at the end of the project due to lack of
government commitment. The feeder road management component seems to have been poorly
prepared and, by the end of the project, rural road maintenance had not improved.
15.   On financial aspects: The specific measures taken to remedy the slow authorization and
payment process for budget spending seem to have produced no effect. The procurement
process, including contract signature and enterprise payments moved very slowly during the
project. The establishment of a revolving Road Maintenance Account to develop sustainable
road maintenance financing was a failure. After the initial deposit of CFAF 300 million (a
condition of effectiveness), no further deposit was made although this was a binding



-5-
commitment of the GOT. A study of road user charges and cost recovery was conducted but
was not conclusive. The proposed recovery system was found unfeasible.
16.   A series of actions and investments for the Directorate of Public Works Equipment
(DMTP). were implemented under the project consisting mainly of equipment and assistance to
equipment management. The improvement foreseen was not achieved, as DMTP performance
remained poor, as did equipment maintenance and utilization.
17.   Transport sector strategy. The project helped the GOT to develop a transport sector
strategy. Based on a participatory approach, the TSS unfolded in an action plan of reforms
supported by a priority investment program, aiming at improving the sector's overall efficiency
with a primary focus on the road maintenance system. Among other major reforms, already
implemented in early 1997, the following can be mentioned: (a) contracting out of road
maintenance (including redeployment of DGTP employees and transformation of DMTP into a
leasing company); (b) establishment of an autonomous Road Maintenance Fund (RMF), to
secure road maintenance financing through user charges directly collected by the RMF; (c)
streamlining of the national procurement code (limiting number of mandatory signatures to
three, and devolution to the ministry level for contracts up to CFAF 100 million); (v)
liberalization of maritime transport and liquidation of the national shipping company; and (vi)
updating and modernization of the sector legal framnework.
18.   Road maintenance. Achievement was partial. The crisis seems to have been the main
cause of the network degradation, but before 1990, the 1988-1990 program was already nearly
two years behind schedule. The crisis induced cofinanciers withdrawal and fiscal difficulties
for the Government resulting in a further deterioration of the road network. Nevertheless, the
two-year delay before 1990 proves that structural problems already existed and needed to be
addressed by the project.
19.   On the physical side, the Bank primarily financed the rehabilitation of two very
damaged sections of roads (Lome-Kpalime and Tsevie-Tabligbo, 160 kIn). The two stretches
rehabilitated were not originally planned for IDA financing but were reconsidered for economic
reasons after European Development Fund (EDF) and African Development Bank (AfDB)
withdrawal. These sections represent less than the planned rehabilitation activities due to the
extra cost incurred by road degradation during the crisis. Periodic maintenance works were
also financed under the project on paved and earth roads. These works were designed to
respond to the immediate needs of the network as well as to test private sector (local contractor)
involvement in road maintenance. A small part of this maintenance was awarded to the force
account as a basis for accurate comparison. The feeder roads were not maintained under the
project because this activity was to be undertaken by the German cooperation (KfW) and was
subject to the restructuring of the National Rural Roads Unit (SNPR). The restructuring took
place after most of the donors had pulled out due to the crisis.
20.   Pilot operations to involve small contractors in routine maintenance were conducted in
two regions (extended to the whole country in 1995) in order to develop private sector
participation. Almost 80 contracts were signed. Although deemed satisfactory, the operations
highlighted the need for support to the private sector and for qualified supervision staff in the
regional units. EDF also financed works under this component in late 1990. This generated



-6-
employment and also laid the groundwork for private sector participation in works execution.
In addition, it changed the attitude of DGTP to working with the private sector; it gave the
Government the opportunity to test private sector capacity; and it helped resume maintenance
activities and save the road network from further deterioration due to work stoppage during the
political crisis
21.   At start-up, other donors supported the following activities: (a) rehabilitation of Blitta-
Sokode road by EDF and construction of new structures (bridges, drains) on the unpaved
network by KfW; (b) rehabilitation of 950 km of rural roads financed by UNDP and KfW; (c)
maintenance works executed by SMEs and financed by EDF. Rehabilitation and reopening of
feeder roads were proposed under the program without ensuring a sustainable maintenance
mechanism. The problems with SNPR and its role delayed the process. In sum, the three-year
rolling maintenance program was only partially carried out.
22.   Railways. Achievement was partial. Between 1991-93 a study was done on the future
of the CFT and an action plan was proposed. The action plan was implemented in late 1993:
CFT management was contracted out to an international private operator and the operational
network was limited to one line of about 285 km. However, the restructuring was not
completed as the Government failed to address redundancies.
23.   Road safety. Achievement was negligible. The major elements of the road safety
action plan were not implemented. The proposed road safety action plan seems to have been
too ambitious, given the economic situation and capacity in the country. The National Road
Safety Council (CNSR) and the Office of Road Safety (OSR) were not established due to
political difficulties. Construction of the Vehicle Inspection Center was deferred by the Bank
because the institutional and financial settings were not ready. Following project restructuring,
the objectives of this component were redesigned and the following actions were carried out: (i)
establishment of a Management Information Systems for compiling accidents data; (ii)
identification of accident dangerous intersections and stretches of road; (iii) training of a road
safety team in DGT; (iv) driver training program; (v) sensitization campaign on road safety in
schools and public places; and (vi) construction of the road safety office. However, these
actions will only show a positive impact on road safety when the institutional framework is set
up and policies implemented.
24.   Coastal protection. This component, which was to be fully financed by CFD, partially
achieved its objectives. The first tranche was carried out and the study for the second tranche
was conducted, but its results were not implemented for lack of financing. Results on the
ground are satisfactory: coastal erosion has diminished where the first tranche of works was
carried out.
25.   Labor-intensive pilot operation. Achievement was substantial. The Agence
d'Execution des Travaux Urbains AGETUR-TOGO was created, although with some delay,
and all planned work were completed. This component was added in 1992 to reduce poverty by
creating employment after the crisis and test a new procurement mechanism by delegating
contract management to an independent institution (AGETUR). After a two-year delay due to
political difficulties in the selection of a General Director, the component was implemented in
Lome and about 400,000 days of labor were generated. The quality of works done under this



-7-
component is relatively low and long delays were incurred due to weak capacity of the local
SMEs. Nevertheless, this component had a positive impact on Togolese employment, private
sector development and local engineering capacities, and facilitated the preparation and
implementation of the Togo Urban Development Project (Cr. 2620-TO) which carried on the
activities with AGETUR.
26.   Economic evaluation. The Economic Rate of Return and the Net Present Value were
evaluated for the two rehabilitated sections by using the latest traffic count and Vehicle
Operating Costs computed by HDM-III. Severe road degradation due to the crisis, and the
relatively high and stable traffic on these sections, explain the strong rate of return for the
rehabilitation investments. The SAR estimated the ERR for the rehabilitation of paved roads
between 17 and 50 percent After effective rehabilitation, ERR for Lom&Kpalime is rated
41 percent, and 14 percent for Tsevi&Tabligbo. The NPV discounted at 12 percent over 20
years for those two sections is respectively CFAF 26 billion and CFAF 0.6 billion, for an
investment of CFAF 9.2 billion and CFAF 4.2 billion.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
27.   Implementation delays. Long delays were incurred throughout the project cycle. The
closing date of the Credit, initially June 30, 1994, was postponed by three years to compensate
for the time lost during the political crisis (1991-1993). Credit effectiveness was 4 months
behind schedule due to delays in the procurement process (the CFT study) and the first deposit
in the Road Maintenance Account. Project implementation delays occurred before, during and
after the crisis. Before the crisis, the project was already 18 months behind schedule due to a
slow procurement process and to cofinancier withdrawal (AfDB and West African
Development Bank). During 1991-1993, the project came to a virtual halt (particularly in
1992) due to socio-political strife. Finally after the political crisis, the transport sector
(including the administration) lost much of its skilled labor force and management capacity to
neighboring countries. The sector had to recruit and train new staff. In 1993, project
implementation resumed gradually and was operating smoothly by 1995. During 1995-1996,
nearly half of the credit amount was disbursed.
28.   Factors generally beyond government control. The main factors affecting project
implementation that are beyond government control are: (a) the 1990-1993 political crisis: this
major event has severely affected project implementation and sector institutions; (b) weakness
of SMEs and the local private sector in termns of work quality, timeliness of implementation and
organization; and (c) the withdrawal of cofinanciers, which resulted in a severe shortage of
financing, and translated into further deterioration of the road network and increasing backlog
of rehabilitation works.
29.   Factors generally subject to government control include the lack of Government
counterpart funds, long delays in procurement and decision-making processes and weak
commitment. Insufficient counterpart financing has been a persistent problem in the sector.
Cumbersome administrative and procurement procedures continuously hinder project
implementation. Finally, in spite of the agreements reached during negotiations, reforms were



-8-
not implemented during the project (creation of CNSR, OSR, integration of SNPR, etc.) due to
lack of Government commitment.
30.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: (a) DGTP is partially
responsible for delays in the procurement process. Preparation of bidding documents, bid
evaluation and award were too long and did not allow disbursement with reasonable speed; (b)
DMTP has proven its inefficiency from the very start of the project. Equipment has been
poorly maintained and DMTP management was rarely responsive to force-account needs in
spite of the assistance provided; and (c) audit reports were submitted in 1994 for the period
1989-1993.
E.   Project Sustainability
31.   Project sustainability is unlikely. The project did not establish a sustainable mechanism
for road maintenance. Planning and management capacity was partially lost during the crisis.
The revolving Road Maintenance Account was not replenished nor did the National Budget
provide timely resources for network maintenance. No specific mechanism was set up to
ensure routine maintenance of rehabilitated feeder roads. Although some actions were
undertaken, no institutional framework was set up to manage the country's road safety policy.
32.   On the other hand, project failure served as a good lesson to develop a new transport
sector strategy including far reaching reforms, which are now under implementation (see
paragraph 17).
F.   Bank Performance
33.   Bank performance on the whole is mixed. Project preparation and appraisal is judged
unsatisfactory. The presentation of the project in the SAR, the confusion between project and
program, is an indication of lack of clarity in project preparation. Moreover, the reality of
Togolese budget constraints, force account weakness and poor sector management were not
taken into account adequately.
34.   Proiect supervision is mixed. There was a lack of continuity in the staffing of
supervision mission. Of the fourteen supervision missions conducted by the Bank by a total of
32 staff, less than forty percent of the staff had participated in previous missions. Despite this
lack of continuity, project supervision managed to adapt the project content to the changing
economy and political situation in Togo. From mid-1995, when a new team took over, until
project end, improvement was real: disbursement increased by 50 percent, there was more focus
on development of a transport sector strategy drawing lessons from Transport Rehabilitation
Project implementation and the new political and economic situation of the country. During the
last two years, the project supported implementation of far-reaching reforms. These reforms,
representing a real change in the approach of the Togolese administration to sector
management, constitute the basis for a new sector project.



-9-
G.   Borrower Performance
35.   Borrower performance has been unsatisfactory, but improved steadily during the last
two years of project life. After project restructuring in 1992 and 1994, total disbursements in
FY95 and FY96 accounted for about 47 percent of the credit amount compared to only
38 percent during the first five years of the project. The undisbursed balance was fully
committed by the end of FY96. Delays in procurement have been reduced and maintenance
programming resumed. About twenty local engineers and technicians were hired and trained to
reinforce the management capacity of the Ministry of Equipment. Through full involvement
and participation in transport strategy development, attitudes have changed, and the Togolese
administration is now more convinced of the importance of planning programming and
supervising rather than executing works. The participation of the private sector is well
appreciated and even encouraged.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
36.   Project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. The objectives of the project have not been
achieved. However, it may be noted that in the last two years of implementation, steady
improvement was achiev_d. In these last two years the project has been instrumental in: (i)
bringing about major reforms; (ii) achieving much-needed improvement of the road network;
and (iii) building up capacity in DGTP.
I.    Future Operations
37.   A new operation, the Road Transport Project, was approved by the Board on September
11, 1997. The RTP has fully internalized the lessons learned from the Transport Rehabilitation
Project and its strategic studies . This new operation intends to build on the momentum created
by the preparation of the transport sector strategy and the behavioral changes it induced. The
Road Transport Project focuses on new mechanisms to create sustainable road management and
maintenance systems. The reforms already introduced include: (i) the creation of a Road
Maintenance Fund, financed by road user charges, directly transferred to a commercial account
without transiting through the general budget; (ii) the creation of a financially autonomous
equipment leasing company; (iii) the elimination of force account for road maintenance; (iv) the
upgrading and modernization of the legal framework for the transport sector; (v) the
streamlining of the national procurement code; and (vi) the development of a new strategy for
rural road maintenance with community participation. The second operation linked to the
Transport Rehabilitation Project is the Togo Urban Development Project, which carries on the
activities with AGETUR. Small urban works are being financed by this credit and one of the
project objectives is to create employment and improve SME capacity, as initiated by the labor-
intensive operation of the Transport Rehabilitation Project.



-10-
J.    Key Lessons Learned
38.   The key lessons learned from project implementation are the following:
(a) Importance of supervision. The supervision of the project seems to have been
critical for project implementation. Important factors that would have supported project
success are: appropriate technical advice; continuity of Bank staff, consistent follow-up,
timely response to the Borrower and cooperation with the Borrower team.
(b) Entrenched long-term technical assistance (TA) and untargeted training have
proven ineffective. TA should be short-term and focused on beneficiary needs.
Likewise training should correspond to beneficiary-identified needs, and be provided on
site, whenever possible, by qualified trainers.
(c) Togolese counterpart funding. The unreliability of Togolese counterpart funding
should be considered as a major risk for any project, and all precautions should be taken
to mitigate this risk. Agreements reached during negotiations are not a sufficient
answer. This issue should be continuously addressed during project preparation and
implementation and appropriate actions should be taken in case of default.
(d) Arangements for road maintenance financing were inadequate. Resources for
road maintenance financing are allocated in the National General Budget by the
Treasurer. Although the funding exists on paper, it has never been provided in full or
on time, even during periods of fiscal soundness. Adequate road maintenance financing
could be ensured by an independently-financed, autonomous fund, governed by road
user representatives and other sector stakeholders. This new financing arrangement has
been set up under the Road Transport Project.
(e) Up-front conditions for reforms subject to risks. The reforms subject to political
risks were not implemented under the project. These reforms should be put as up-front
conditions. The time needed to change attitudes and approaches should be taken into
account during the preparation so that reforms may be implemented before Board
presentation.
(f) Weakness of the private sector. The pilot operations and the labor-intensive
component revealed the weakness of the private sector. Delays and inadequate work
quality were usual. Nevertheless, the overall improvement of the private sector
involved in public works, and SMEs in particular, is noticeable in Togo. Future
operations should assess private sector capacity and the amount of works appropriate for
award to local contractors, as well as necessary conditions (supervision of works,
training, etc.) to facilitate private sector implementation.
(g) Continuity between operations. The continuity between the two road projects was
remarkable. The funds allocated to strategic studies, the long preparation two years
before the Credit closing date (thanks to Credit extension) were conditions of this
success. The project demonstrated clearly existing institutional inefficiency and the
need to prepare adequately for strategic reforms.



-1 1-
(h) The force account has proven to be seriously ineffective in carrying out
maintenance of road networks, despite support and supervision efforts. Force account
labor is oversupplied, underskilled and poorly supervised, resulting in low productivity.
New equipment deteriorates quickly due to poor maintenance, and inappropriate use.
Maintenance works should be contracted out to take advantage of competition and
wider skills.
(i) Administrative obstacles and excessive control by high level bureaucrats are
stifling sector institutions, and prevent them from developing adequate competencies
and responding to sector needs. Cumbersome procedures, especially in procurement, a
top-heavy hierarchy, and lack of resources have discouraged initiative and undermined
capacity-building efforts in previous operations. Procurement procedures should be
revised and simplified, and institutions should be restructured to facilitate accountability
and individual initiative.
(j) Current public sector institutional arrangements lack necessary resources and
capacity to manage the dispersed feeder road network. Partnerships between the
State, local communities and donors would spread the burden for network maintenance
and management, and allow each institution to focus its efforts and resources more
effectively.
(k) Donor coordination is critical to sustain sector reforms. Past sector gains from
donor projects have remained unconsolidated due, in part, to lack of coordination. The
Transport Sector Strategy provides a coherent framework for future interventions, and
the TSIP defines clear priorities to guide donor assistance. Regular meetings should be
held between the Government and donors to follow up TSS and TSIP implementation.
I



-12-
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial        Partial       Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                         Dl
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                   D               a       
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                           l              Dl              E 
Other Social Objectives               1  
Environmental Objectives                                                                 El r 
Public Sector Management              E]                                                 Io
Private Sector Development            R                                                  1  
B. Project SUSTAINABILITY                  Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                             E]                                      E
Preparation Assistance                      E                  El
Appraisal                                  E                   El
Supervision                                El                                     El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                  satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                 E                  El
Implementation                              El                 E                   Ig
Covenant Compliance                        E                   E                   WI
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory



-13-
Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits
Loan/Credit ti                                   hiri
Preceding operations
1. Highwvay Maintenance Project Cr. 131- support a four-year investment program  1968   Completed
TO                                  and pre-investment studies for secondary
roads
2. Second Highway Project CR. 450-TO   support reconstruction on maintenance  1973    Completed
program to reduce vehicle operating costs
on roads in Togo
3. Third Highway Project Cr. 693-TO  improve road maintenance, undertake  1977   Completed
road construction and rehabilitation and
upgrade road sector institutions, to
address railway problem and improve the
macro-management of the transport
sector
4. Feeder Road Project Cr. 810-TO   improve road maintenance, undertake   1978   Completed
road construction and rehabilitation and
upgrade road sector institutions
5. Fourtl- Highway Project Cr. 1139-TO   improve road maintenance, undertake  1981    Completed
road construction and rehabilitation and
upgrade road sector institutions, to
address the railway problem and improve
the macro-management of the transport
sector
Following operations
6. Urban Development Project. Cr. 2620- help the Government implement its urban   1994    Ongoing
TO                                  development policy through a) the
execution of priority urban works, b) the
promotion of small contractors, c) the
active participation of local residents.
7. Road Transport Project           create a sustainable road management  1997    Ongoing
and maintenance systems, to
rehabilitate the national network and to
test a new strategy for rural road
management.



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                               May 1985
Preparation
Appraisal                                                                               March 1987
Negotiations                                                                           October 1987
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                                                NA
Board Presentation                                                                   December 15, 1987
Signing                                                                              February 29, 1988
Effectiveness                                                May31, 1988            September29, 1988
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                             NA                        NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                    NA                        NA
Project Completion                                        December31, 1993             June30, 1997
Credit Closing                                              June 30, 1994             June 30, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
L_:~~~~~~~~~II 1YM9,2~
Appraisal Estimate               5.6      15.2     24.4      32.0      37.2    40.0
Actual                           0.2      7.7       9.6      11.6      19.3    20.6      30.0     42.2     44.5
Actual as % of Estimate          4 %     51 %      39 %     36 %      52 %     52 %      NA       NA       NA
Date of final Disbursement     July 15, 1997



-15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Annual national budget for road maintenance
(CFAF billion) including foreign funds          1986             0.65           national funds only
1987             1.40
1988             2.45                  3.10
1989             2.75                  0.70
1990             3.40                  1.00
1991                                   1.10
1992                                   0.60
1993                                   0.00
1994                                   0.20
1995                                   0.50
1996                                   0.50



-16-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
N/A                                                  N/A                 |N/A
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
I Transport corridor study       submission of a cost recovery    completed    none: found unfeasible
action plan
2 Railway study                   financial status and action   completed    action plan partially
plan                                      implemented
(downsizing)
3 Lome traffic study                                           completed    none: lack of fnancing
(etude de circulation A Lome)
4 Study of maintenance and        preparation of the Transport  completed    preparation of the
rehabilitation strategy for paved  Sector Strategy (TSS) and a               Transport Sector
roads                             new operation (TRP)                        Strategy (TSS) and a
(etude strategique entretien et                                              new operation (TRP)
rehabilitation des routes revetues)
5 Study of maintenance strategy for   TSS and TRP               completed    TSS and TRP
earth roads
(etude strategique entretien routier
des routes non revetues)
6 Feasibility study of community  TSS and TRP                   completed    TSS and TRP
participation
(etude de faisabilite de la
participation communautaire)
7 Study on reforms of procurement    TSS and TRP               completed    TSS and TRP
procedures
(etude reforme procedures de
marches)
8 Study of road structures (bridges)   TSS and TRP             completed    TSS and TRP
(etude ouvrages d'art et
hydrauliques)
9 Feasibility study of a Road     TSS and TRP                  completed    TSS and TRP
Maintenance Fund
10 Sector legal framework         TSS and TRP                  completed    TSS and TRP



-17-
11 Force account redeployment   TSS and TRP                  completed    TSS and TRP
12 Feasibility study of an equipment  TSS and TRP             completed    TSS and TRP
leasing company
Table 8a: Program Costs
AN.                  2.i-  ADaaIEtmat{sM)   *-At,A*e
Road Component                 17.1        78.8      95.9                78.4
Coastal Protection Component    2.1         8.4      10.5                 7.8
Road Safety Component           0.8         1.4       2.2                 1.5
Institutional Strengthening     0.4         3.4       3.8                 4.0
Studies                         0.1         1.4       1.5                 1.5
Refinancing of PPF              0.0         0.3       0.3                 0.3
Labor intensive pilot operation  0.0        0.0       0.0                 2.5
Total Base Cost                20.5        93.7      114.2
Physical Contingencies          1.6         7.5       9.1
Price Contingencies             2.4        4.6        7.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          24.5        105.8     130.3                96



-18-
Table 8b: Program Financing
|IDA                    2.2           37.8         40.0                   44.5
| AfDB                 1.0           16.0          17.0                   0
BOAD                                 2.3           2.3                    0
CCCE/CFD                              1.4          1.4                   7.2
FAC                                   1.4          1.4                    0.4
FED                    3.0           23.6         26.6                   22.3
KfW                    1.5            6.5          8.0                   7.4
SFD                                   5.5          5.5                    O
UNDP                   0.1            2.5          2.6                    4.6
Other Donor (Gap)      0.8           2.3           3.1                    0
Govermnent             15.9          6.5          22.4                   9.6
TOTAL                24.5          105.8        130.3                   96
* over three years (1988-1990)
o* over nine years (1989-1997)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Section Rehabilitated by IDA funding  estimated ERR          ERR          NPV (CFAF billion)
Lome- Kpalime                          17 - 50 %             41 %                 26
Tsevie - Tabligbo                      17 - 50 %             14 %                 0.6
Main assumptions
NPV discount rate 12% over 20 years
Measured traffic on the sections (1997): 1717 vehicles per day (vpd) 53 trucks per day (tpd) on Lome-Kpalime;
617 vpd 15 tpd on Tsevie-Tabligbo.
Traffic growth: between 1.5 and 3% depending on the section and the type of vehicle.
Works costs based on the final costs paid to contractors.
Vehicle Operating Costs computed by HDM-III.



-19-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
2.02(b)         3    |C |||Borwrto open and maintain in    |The opening and                             ,R
|CFAF francs aspecial account and     signatureR
operate it in accordance with schedule authorizations were
4 of the credit agreement.        completed with delays.
2.06            1   |  C   |          |          | Commitment and service charges to
be paid semiannually.
3.01(a)         5    |  C   |         |          | Borrower shall carry out the project
through MCT and MEPT under the
overall coordination of 11M.
3.01(b)(i)    4,11      c                         MaintaininthenameofMEPTa
revolving fund (CER).
3.01(b)(ii)   4,11      C               08/29/88  Deposit into CER an initial amount of The initial deposit was
CFAF 300,000                      made after a 3 month
delay, although it was
a credit effectiveness
condition.
3.01(b)(iii)  4,11     NC                         Thereafter deposit into CER on the    After the initial
last day of every calendar quarter, the  deposit, no funds were
quarterly amounts agreed for road  deposited in the CER.
maintenance.
3.02            4       PC                        Maintain during the execution of the   The process was
project sufficient funds and submit to  disrupted in 1992 due
IDA by October 31 of each year the   to the national political
expenditures for the transport sector   crisis.
program and related draft budget for
following fiscal year.
3.04(q)         5       C                         Maintain DGTP with functions and    Training programs and
responsibilities and promptly     staffing process were
implement all measures included in   interrupted by the
the action plan to strengthen DGTP's  political crisis.
operations.
3.04(b)        10      NC    12/31/88             Establish national road safety board.   Government did not
agree on establishment
of road safety board.
3.04(c)        10       CD    12/31/88   12/31/90  Submit CFT action plan, the cost
recovery action plan and the road
safety action plan.
3.04(d)         10      C      6/30/95            CFT promptly implement the action   Implemented with
plan referred to in 3.04 (c) above.  difficulty due to
political crisis.



-20-
4.01(a)          I       PC                         Maintain records adequate to reflect in During the political
accordance with appropriate        crisis the records were
accounting practices the operations,   partially maintained,
resources and expenditures, in respect  but resumed in early
of the project                     1995.
4.01(b)(i)       I        C                         Have records and accounts auditors
selected and special accounts audited
for each fiscal year
4.01(b)(ii)      I        C                         Furnish to IDA ASAP but not later    Audits were contracted
than six months after the end of each   with delays during the
year a certified copy of the audit report crisis (91-93), but on
time thereafter.
4.01 (b)(iii)    1        C                         Furnish to IDA such other information
concerning said records, accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably
request.
4.01(c)(i)       1       C                          For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of
SOE, the borrower shall maintain
records adequate to reflect in
accordance with par. (a) of this
section, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures
Status                             Covenant Class
C = Complied with                   I Accounts, audit
CD = Compliance after Delay        2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
PC = Partially Complied with       3 Flow utilization of Projects fund
NC = Not Complied with             4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the project or of its executing agencies
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory l institutional action
13 Other



-21-
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Thbrough Appraisal
Appraisal-Board
Board-Effectiveness                                  6.9       16,000
Supervision                                          155       361,200
Completion                                            _         S,000
TOTAL                                              163.2     382,200



-22-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Through Appraisal;    July 84      4       7                            TT1
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                                          I11
Board Approval       Apr. 88       2        8    PE, CONS    N/A         N/A        N/A
throughIIR
Effectiveness                                                           II1 
Jul. 88       1       9    PE            N/A        N/A        N/A
Supervision I        Dec. 88       1       13   PE            N/A        N/A        N/A
Supervision II       July 89       2       12   PE; TEC       2           1         CLC, PMP,
PP, TP,
|___L___I_ TAP, SP
Supervision III      May 90        3       17   PE, RSS, RE   2           1         same
Supervision IV       Jan. 91       3       14   PE; TE,       2           1         same
CONS
Supervision V     Oct./Nov. 91     2       9    TE, TS        2          2          same
Supervision VI       Oct. 92       1       2    TEC           N/A        N/A        same
Supervision VII   Oct./Nov. 93     5       17   FA, TP, OA,  3           3          same
HE, CONS               I          1           11
Supervision VIII     Apr. 94       1       9    HE            3          3          same
Supervision IX      Nov. 94        5       7    FA, TP, HE    N/A        N/A        same
Supervision X        Jul. 95       2       12   TP, HE         S         S          same
Supervision XI       Dec. 95       2      N/A   TP, HE         s         s          same
Supervision XII      Mar. 96       1      N/A   TP             S         S          same
Supervision XIII    Nov. 96        1       4    TP             S         S          same
Supervision XIV      Mar. 97       2       12   TP, PA         S         S          same
Completion           Jul. 97       1       2    PA             S*         S*        same
* Although the project has been rated unsatisfactory overall, implementation and achievement of development
objectives improved significantly during the last two years of project implementation due to improvements in project
supervision and return of stability after the political crisis.
a/ Key to Specialization
CONS = Consultant; FA = Financial Analyst; HE = Highway Engineer; OA = Operation Assistant; PA = Project
Assistant; PE = Principal Economist; RE = Railway Engineer; RSS = Road Security Specialist; TE = Transport
Engineer; TEC = Transport Economist; TP = Transport Planner; TS = Transport Specialist.
b/ Key to Status
I = Problem Free; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major Problems;
HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory
c/ Key to Problems
AF = Availability of Funds; CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants; EA = Environmental Aspects; FP = Financial
Performance; PMP = Project Management Performance; PP = Procurement Progress; TAP = Technical Asst. Progress;
TP = Training Progress; SP = Studies Progress.



-23-
APPENDIX
ICR mission Aide Memoire
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES TRANSPORTS
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
DU 2 AU 3 JUILLET 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, comprenant M. H. Larbi, Specialiste urbain et transport
et M T. du Crest, charge de recherche, a sejourne a Lome du 2 au 3 juillet 1997. Les objectifs de la
mission etaient de finaliser avec 1'emprunteur le rapport d'achevement du projet et tirer les le9ons
duprojet de rehabilitation cl6ture le 30 juin 1997.
2.    La mission tient a remercier la DGTP pour son accueil et la diligence avec laquelle elle a
redige la contribution de 1'emprunteur au rapport d'achevement (en collaboration avec 1'AGETUR
et la DGT).
3.    La mission a tenu une reunion avec la DGTP au cours de laquelle l'ensemble du projet de
rapport d'achevement a ete discut6 dans les details. Les participants partagent l'ensemble des
conclusions du rapport. Certaines formulations ont ete modifiees dans le rapport pour apporter
quelques clarifications. En particulier les points suivants ont et e'voques lors de la reumnon.
4.    Situation rmanciUre du Credit 1861-TO. Le rapport provisoire d'audit des comptes du
projet (annee 96) a et transmis a la mission le 30 juin 1997. La mission a fait remarquer que
malgre l'insistance pour remedier aux insuffisances du systeme comptable en place et l'appui a
l'e1aboration d'un nouveau manuel de procedure, la gestion comptable du projet ne s'est
amelior6e que vers la fin de l'execution du projet. Les commentaires de la Banque sur l'ensemble
du rapport seront transmis des le retour de la mission a Washington. L'audit final du Credit
devrait avoir lieu avant la fin du mois d'octobre 1997 lorsque tous les mouvements financiers
auront et acheves.
5.    Au 30 Juin 1996, le Credit net disponible non decaisse est de 100 805 366 FCFA selon la
DGTP, ce montant sera donc annule. Ces chiffres ainsi que la date du demier decaissement seront
confirmns et ajoutes au rapport d'achevement a Washington. La mission se f6licite de ce que le
Credit ait reussi a decaisser 99,6 % du cr6dit malgre les nombreux retards qu'avait pris ce projet,
et grace aux extensions. Le montant final annule est legerement plus dlevW que prevu, suite a la
recente hausse du DTS par rapport au FCFA.
6.    Preparation et evaluation du projet. En reaction aux remarques du rapport jugeant
d6ficientes la preparation et l'evaluation du projet, la partie togolaise a voulu insister sur les



-24-
conditions qui regnaient a l'epoque et les difficultes et rigidite qui pouvaient se poser, et qui sont
difficiles a juger 10 ans apres. Ainsi, si la Banque a une responsabilite dans la mauvaise
apprehension de la realite togolaise (contraintes budgetaires reelles, faibles capacites de
l'administration, etc. ), il convient de temperer sa responsabilite dans le manque de realisme des
solutions proposees lors du projet, responsabilite largement partagee avec les autorites togolaises.
7.    La DGTP a malgre tout insiste sur l'evolution de la Banque dans sa maniere de preparer
les projets, vecue lors de la preparation du nouveau Projet de Transports Routiers (PTR).
L'emprunteur apprecie enormement d'etre beaucoup plus implique dans la preparation; il apprecie
le niveau de dialogue avec les missions de la Banque et la circulation de l'information de maniere
generale. I1 s'agissait par exemple de la premiere fois que la DGTP participait a des negociations
d'un projet de transport (le PTR a Washington du 2 au 7 juin 1997).
8.    Organigramme de la DGTP. La restructuration de la DGTP qui a eu lieu lors du projet a
satisfait cette derniere (elevation au rang de Direction Generale). En particulier, elle a ameliore les
relations avec les Directions Regionales. Cependant pour la DGTP, la question se pose si ces
Direction Regionales ne devraient pas etre de simples services, a l'instar du Benin. Les relations
au jour d'aujourd'hui sont bonnes entre DGTP et Directions Regionales, mais la hierarchie etant
relativement horizontale, elles dependent beaucoup des personnes.
9.    Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics. L'emprunteur a reagi a la remarque du
rapport mentionnant l'echec des actions realisees en faveur de la DMTP, lors du PRT. La mission
a rappele que la DMTP a et transformee recemment en Societe de Location de Materiel, malgre
I'appui en matiere de gestion et de materiel, financ6 par le credit. Les investissements realises
n'ont donc pas ete utilises a bon escient : l'entretien du materiel et son utilisation etaient toujours
mauvais a la fin du projet.
10.   Equipes de supervision de la Banque. L'emprunteur a insiste sur le fait que la
multiplicite des chefs de projet represente un lourd handicap pour la reussite des projets. Le temps
n6cessaire a la nouvelle equipe pour se mettre au courant et se familiariser avec le projet provoque
des retards. La mission a reconnu l'avantage d'avoir une equipe stable. En effet, le chef de projet
n'a pas change lors des trois dernieres annees, et le projet dans son ensemble s'est nettement
ameliore. On peut donc effectivement raisonnablement penser qu'il existe un lien de cause a effet.
L'emprunteur a aussi fait remarquer que la mission residente pourrait avoir un r6le plus prononce
dans les supervisions ce qui pourrait ameliorer la continuite de l'action de la Banque dans ce
domaine.
11.   Participation du secteur prive. La mission considere que la suppression de la regie est
une action positive parmi les reformes engagees par l'administration togolaise dans le secteur des
transports. La mission se felicite egalement du changement de mentalite de la DGTP qui accepte
ce changement et reconnait ses avantages. Cependant, elle fait remarquer que conserver une regie
meme limitee est necessaire en particulier pour les interventions d'urgence et qu'une suppression
graduelle de la regie aurait ete mieux percue. La mission a rappele les echecs des appuis aux
regies lors des projets routiers precedents, le PRT etant le dernier en date. La suppression de la
regie a pour fonction d'apporter la transparence dans le fmancement de l'entretien routier, avec ce
desavantage de perdre en souplesse lors des interventions sur le reseau.
12.   Lecons tirees du projet. Les legons tirees du projet, partagees par la mission et
l'emprunteur, sont rappelees ci-dessous. Ces lecons ont d'ors et d6ja ete mises en pratique par les
deux parties lors de la preparation du Projet de Transports Routiers.



-25-
a) Importance de la supervision. La supervision du projet semble avoir e  un point
essentiel lors de l'execution du projet. On peut citer quelques facteurs importants qui
permettent de faciliter le succes des projets: expertise technique approprine, continuit6
entre les equipes de la Banque, suivi sans interruption du projet, reponse rapide a
l'emprunteur et collaboration avec les intervenants.
b) L'assistance technique de long terme et les formations mal ciblees ont prouve
leur inefficacit6. L'assistance technique (AT) devrait 8tre uniquement de courte duree,
ponctuelle et centree sur les besoins du beneficiaires (pour eviter que I'AT remplace le
beneficiaire qui, pour finir, ne peut assurer la releve de l'AT). De meme les formations
doivent correspondre aux besoins identifies des beneficiaires, et doivent etre donnees
sur place, dans la mesure du possible, par des formateurs qualifies.
c) Contrepartie Togolaise. La contrepartie togolaise des projets doit 8tre considerde
comme un risque majeur de tout projet. Toutes les precautions doivent donc etre prises
pour limiter ce risque. Les accords obtenus pendant les negociations ne devraient pas
etre consid6res comme la reponse definitive a la question. I1 faut suivre le probleme de
pres pendant la preparation et l'execution du projet, et des mesures appropriees doivent
etre prevues dans l'accord de credit pour d'eventuelles actions legales.
d) Reformes a risque a mettre comme conditionnalit6s au projet. De nombreuses
r6formes n'ont pas eu lieues pendant le proj et. Les reformes susceptibles de presenter
quelques difficultes devraient etre mises comme conditionnalites au projet. Le temps
necessaire pour faire evoluer les mentalites, pour convaincre les autorit6s et
l'administration a accepter les reformes doit etre pris en consideration dans la
preparation du projet, dans un soucis constant de dialogue.
e) Faiblesse du secteur prive. Les diverses op6rations pilotes et la composante a
haute intensite de main-d'oeuvre ont montre la faiblesse du secteur prive. Des retards
et un manque de qualit6 ont souvent ete deplores. Cependant les am6liorations des
PME et l'augmentation de la capacite de secteur prive dans les Travaux Publics sont
reelles au Togo. Les operations a venir devront determiner clairement quelle est la
capacite du secteur prive local et quel montant de travaux celui-ci est capable de
prendre en charge et sous quelles conditions (contr6le, formation, etc.).
f) Continuite entre operations. La continuite entre les deux projets de transports a
et6 remarquable. Les fonds alloues aux etudes strategiques, la longue preparation de 2
ans avant la cl6ture du credit (grace aux extensions) ont ete pour une grande part dans
cette continuite. Le Projet de Rehabilitation des Transports a eti une veritable
opportunite en terme de demonstration de l'inefficacite des structures et pour la
preparation des reformes.
g) Les modes de financement d'entretien de la route sont mal appropries. Les
ressources pour le financement de l'entretien routier etaient alloues au Budget National
par le Tresor. Bien que les fonds existaient sur le papier, ceux-ci n'etaient jamais
delivres en temps et en heure, meme pendant les periodes oii le Togo b6neficiait d'un
environnement fiscal sain. Un mecanisme approprie de fmancement de l'entretien
routier sera mis en place grace a un fonds autonome financierement independant,
administre par des representant des usagers de la route et des intervenants du secteur.



-26-
h) La regie a prouve son inefficacite en matiere d'execution des travaux
d'entretien, malgre les appuis dont elle a beneficie. Le personnel de la regie etait
surnumeraire, mal forme, et mal contr6le, ce qui conduisait a une productivite faible.
Les equipements finances se sont deteriores rapidement car ils etaient mal entretenus
et mal utilises. Les travaux d'entretien sont maintenant passe sous contrat pour
beneficier de l'avantage de la concurrence et d'un plus grand choix en personnel
qualifie.
i) Le institutions publiques manquent de ressources et de capacite pour 8tre
capable de g6rer le reseau tres eparse des pistes rurales. La participation
communautaire et le partenariat entre l'Etat, les communautes et les bailleurs de fonds
devraient repartir les tAches d'entretien et de gestion du r6seau, et permettre a chaque
institution de concentrer ses efforts et d'utiliser ses ressources d'une maniere plus
efficace.
j) La coordination des bailleurs de fonds est essentielle pour soutenir les reformes
dans le secteur. Les reussites passees, dans le secteur des transports, A l'occasion des
projets des bailleurs de fonds, ne se sont pas perennisees en partie a cause du manque
de coordination. La strategie du secteur des transports a propose un cadre coherent
pour les futures interventions, et le Programme d'Investissement Prioritaire definit
clairement les priorites pour encadrer l'assistance des bailleurs de fonds. Des reunions
regulieres devraient etre tenues entre le gouvemement et les bailleurs de fonds pour
suivre la mise en place de la strategie du secteur et du programme prioritaire.
Fait a Lome, le 3 juillet 1997.
Hedi Larbi, Chef de projet.                                 M. Tchamdja Andjo
Ministre charge des Travaux Publics
et des Transports.



-27-
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
REPUBLIQUE DU TOGO
Projet de rehabilitation des transports
(Credit 1861-TO)
Contribution de l 'Emprunteur au rapport d 'achevement du credit 1861-TO
DGTP - DGT
version finale, juin 97



-28-
1- Introduction
Le projet de rehabilitation des transports a contribue efficacement A la consolidation des
investissements anterieurement effectues dans le secteur des transports du pays, par la mise au point
et l'execution des programmes complets d'entretien courant et periodique, et en procedant d'une
fa,on selective et rationnelle, A la rehabilitation/modernisation des infrastructures des transports
existants.
- Le projet a aide, d'une maniere remarquable, le gouvernement A maintenir l'efficacite des
infrastructures et des services du secteur des transports, et a aid6 sensiblement au renforcement de la
capacite de gestion du secteur.
- Au cours de l'execution des composantes du projet, des retards considerables ont ete enregistres,
causes par la lenteur des proc6dures administratives de mise en application des composantes.
Ainsi des composantes
i) n'ont pu etre realisees pour raison de retard
ii) on ete purement supprimees pour non respect des clauses de mise en oeuvre.
11 faut remarquer que l'accord de credit prevu pour s'etendre de juin 88 A juin 94, ne prendra fm
qu'en juin 97, soit 3 ans de retard soutenu par 3 reports de la date de cl6ture: les troubles socio-
politiques et le crise qu'a connus le pays sont l'une des causes principales de ce retard.
2.- Resultats atteints Rar le projet
2.1.- Capacite de I'administration ai gerer.
Par rapport aux mesures institutionnelles prevues, les objectifs initiaux etaient realistes. Car, pour
tout changement quel qu'il soit, on a besoin d'investir dans la promotion des ressources humaines
(recrutement et/ou formation)
- La restructuration de la Direction G6nerale des Travaux Publics a ete suivie du recrutement
d'une vingtaine de cadres pour renforcer l'administration malgre le cadre d'ajustement structurel
dans lequel etait le pays: reduction des effectifs de la Fonction Publique exig6e par le Fonds
Monetaire International (F.M.I.). Ce renforcement a ete possible grace A l'appui de la banque
mondiale.
- Les objectifs de formation ne sont atteints que partiellement car des le depart, il n'y avait
pas un programme detaille et la banque est hostile A la formation A l'exterieur des cadres de la
Direction Generale des Travaux Publics, du fait de leur nombre insuffisant.
En definitive, la capacite de gestion, de planification et de programmation a e  remarquablement
amelioree grace aux actions concretes suivantes:
. renforcement en personnel cadre des unites operationnelles de la DGTP;
. encadrement et formation pratique du personnel recrute sur la tache de travail;
. revision et amelioration des methodes de travail par les differentes missions d'assistance;
. acquisition du materiel Bureautique modemes (micro-ordinateurs) et formation du
personnel exploitant.



-29-
L'on notera egalement que cette amelioration du systeme de travail doit etre poursuivie pour faire
face A de nouvelle methode de gestion de l'entretien routier par l'utilisation intense des P.M.E.
2.2. I'amelioration du reseau routier
Le programme de la rehabilitation concemait au depart les routes Tsevie Tabligbo, Lome - Kpalime,
Kpalime - Atakpame, Sokode - Bassar et Blitta - Sokode. La route Sarakawa - Kante a beneficie
d'une etude d'execution comme prevu.
Le programme de rehabilitation execute concerne environ 164 km: Tsevie - Tabligbo (44 km),
Lome - Kpalime (120 km). Ces operations sont durables (10 a 15 ans de duree de vie) si un entretien
courant efficace et regulier est mis en place pour suivre 1'evolution des degradations de ces
ouvrages.
Ce programme, en soi, etait realiste, mais a ignore les defections eventuelles de certains bailleurs de
fonds avec les effets de l'ajustement la monnaie locale et la situation economique nationale quelle
que peu chancelante. C'est ainsi Tsevie-Tabligbo a ete finalement execute avec les credit 1861-TO
au lieu de etre avec ceux de la BAD. A l'avenir, il serait souhaitable que des engagement ferme en
ce qui concerne la participation de telle ou telle source de financement au projet soient exiges et
obtenus avant la ventilation des differentes composantes au compte des bailleurs de fonds. On devra
egalement s'assurer que la participation nationale ne fera pas defaut en cours de chemin.
En ce qui conceme le financement de la Banque Mondiale, le programme de rehabilitation a e
largement atteint, car pour la route Lome-Kpalime programmee pour simple intervention en
entretien routier, a ete completement rehabilitee du fait de la deterioration rapide occasionnee par
des retards d'execution de l'entretien (arr8t du chantier pendant environ un an dui A la crise socio-
politique).
. Entretien routier courant et periodique
Pour l'entretien routier (courant et periodique): la mise en oeuvre effective du programme
d'entretien periodique et courant des routes a demarr6 en 1993. Le programme d'entretien courant
(P.M.E.) a couvert l'ensemble du reseau routier au lieu de se limiter aux 2 regions initialement
prevues. Ce programme a atteint son but car,
i) il a contribue A conferer A une bonne partie du reseau routier un niveau de praticabilite acceptable
surtout lorsqu'on sait que pendant la crise socio-politique, aucune action n'a pu etre menee pour
ameliorer l'etat des routes dejA en mauvaise etat avant 1990.
ii) un nombre important de P.M.E. a contribue a 1'execution des travaux, ce qui a entrain^ la
creation d'un bon nombre d'emplois, surtout au moment oui 1'economie en avait besoin.
Retenons que la capacite de gestion de la DGTP a et sensiblement amelioree du point de vue
institutionnel, financier, Technique et Logistique. Cette action doit etre poursuivie pour ameliorer
davantage la capacite de gestion de l'administration.
Au vu deja de ces resultats, on peut dire que ce volet du projet n'a pas manque de realisme.
3. Oualite de l'ex6cution des composantes du projet
3.1. De1ais et realisme
En ce qui conceme les delais d'execution, il faut dire sans detours que des retards considerables ont
ete remarques dans la realisation de plusieurs composantes.



-30-
Si des reports de delais sont justifies par le freinage ou l'arr8t des activites dus A la crise socio-
politique, lorsqu'on ecarte cette cause, des retards intemes a l'execution des composantes sont a
mettre A l'actif des intervenants dans le projet. Ces causes sont:
- la lenteur dans les procedures de passations des marches, leur gestion quotidienne et leur
liquidation par l'administration Togolaise.
- la difficulte de mise en place de la contre partie togolaise
- le blocage systematique du processus de signatures des marches pour cause de non respect
des lois des imp6ts, en contradiction avec les dispositions de l'accord de credit de l'AID
- l'instabilite du personnel qualifie de l'administration qui cherche a partir vers le secteur
prive plus remunerateur.
- les changements frequents des chefs de projets au sein de la Banque Mondiale: le nouveau
chef de projet peut remettre en cause ce qui est fait par le chef partant, ou doit prendre du temps
pour s'adapter et maltriser ce qui est en train de se faire.
En ce qui concerne le realisme, il faut noter que la gestion du projet a ete realiste et souple pour
s'adapter aux conditions de chaque moment. Les 3 amendements intervenus au cours de l'execution
illustre bien le souci de la Banque Mondiale et des Autorites Togolaises d'adapter les objectifs aux
realites en vigueur.
1 y a eu trois amendements (justifie chacun par un plan d'action), A savoir:
. Premier amendement: a eu lieu le 29Avril 1992
Pour permettre l'introduction des postes de HIMO dont les montants sont preleves sur le poste
<< NON ALLOUE > figurant dans le tableau de l'annexe nl de l'accord de credit du 29/02/88.
. Deuxieme amendement: a eu lieu le 29 Septembre 1994
-i a ete dicte par diverses raisons dont les unes sont contenues dans le premier plan action introduit
par la Direction Gn&rale des Travaux Publics aupres de la Banque Mondiale et les autres exprimees
dans l'aide memoire de. la mission au Togo du 6 au 19 Juin 1994 d'une delegation de la Banque
Mondiale.
T Troisieme amendement: a eu lieu le 29 Fevrier 1996
Le dernier plan d'action de la Direction Generale des Travaux Publics a demande a l'IDA une autre
prolongation de delai pour permettre d'achever les dernires actions en cours d'execution.
3.2. Les manquements au cours de l'execution du projet et leurs raisons
Volet AGETUR
- la mise en oeuvre de la composante operation pilote des travaux A haute intensite de main d'oeuvre
(HIMO) a ete particulierement laborieuse A cause: i) des problemes lids aux difficultes de cr6ation
de 1'AGETUR pendant la crise socio-politique, ii)et de la faible capacite de gestion et de production
des PME.
- Les travaux realises ont eu un impact sur le revenu de la population, mais pas A la hauteur des
espoirs attendus. Ceci est du au fait que les devis presentes et les taux horaires pratiques etaient
faibles de sorte que la main d'oeuvre n'a pas grand benefice.



-31-
Ces difficultes sont inherentes au fait que tous les intervenants (P.M.E., Bureaux de Controle,
Agents de I'AGETUR) etaient, la plus grande partie, en experience dans ce nouveau systeme de
travaux A haute intensite de main d'oeuvre.
Volet DGTP
Rehabilitation:
Le projet de rehabilitation des transports, tous bailleurs confondus, prenait en compte environ 467
km de routes: Tsevie-Tabligbo (52 km), Atakpame-Kpalime (104 km), Lome-Kpalime (120 km)
Sokode-Bassar(57 km) Blitta-Sokode(78 km), Sarakawa-Kant& (56 km) et les routes de dessertes
rurales. Mais la part qui revenait a l'IDA concernait initialement les tron,ons Atakpam&Kpalime,
Sarakawa-Kante et les routes de dessertes.
En fin de projet, l'IDA a finance la rehabilitation de Tsevie-Tabligbo et de Lome-Kpalime suite A la
non-intervention des autres bailleurs de fonds (BAD et FED). La composante routes de dessertes n'a
pu 8tre realisee par l'AID a cause du rattachement tres tardif du service des Pistes Rurales au
Ministere de 1'Equipement. La route Sarakawa-Kante qui n'est qu'une alternative, a ete laissee au
profit de la remise en etat des routes revetues existantes tres degradees. La route Lome-Kpalime a eu
priorite sur la route Kpalime-Atakpame du fait de l'evolution plus rapide des degradations due A son
trafic plus important.
Entretien periodique:
Ce volet concemait les routes Tabligbo-Aneho, Atakpame-Blitta, Lome-Atakpame, Lom&Kpalime,
Kant-Mango, les pistes agricoles bitumees et les routes en terre. Trois bailleurs de fonds etaient
initialement interesses par ce volet: il s'agit de la BOAD, du FED et de l'IDA; ce dernier prenait en
compte 51% du financement total prevu.
Ce volet a ete realise A titre experimental a l'entreprise sur l'ensemble du reseau revetu. Les pistes
ont ete eliminees de ce programme pour non transfert au Ministere de l'Equipement; le volet route
en terre consistait a la modernisation d'environ 50 km du reseau national non revetu et n'a pas ete
realise.
Entretien courant: Il a ete prevu de mener une experience pilote pour la realisation de 1'entretien
courant de l'ensemble du reseau de deux regions (region centrale et maritime). A cause du retard
accumule et suite A la demande de la DGTP acceptee par la Banque mondiale, cette experience a e
etendue a toutes les directions regionales des TP, de ce fait un programme de reparations a ete
execute sur l'ensemble du reseau en 1995-96 sur fmancement IDA.
Pistes Rurales
Ce volet n'a pas ete realise et la raison est le rattachement tres tardif du Service des Pistes Rurales
au Ministere de l'Equipement (Condition de la Banque Mondiale acceptee par le Gouvernement
Togolais dans l'accord de Credit). Les autres bailleurs de fonds (KfW, FENU, etc) ne sont pas
intervenu. Cette situation n'a pas favorise l'epanouissement des P.M.E et n'a pu renforcer la
creation d'emplois dans les zones rurales
Acquisition Equipements DMTP
Le projet prevoyait la creation et l'equipement de cinq (5) centres d'exploitation du materiel, un par
r6gion. La repartition de cet equipement a ete prealablement arr8te. Il a ete prevu que le financement
de ces equipements soit assure en partie par un don japonais. Le don japonais n'a effectivement pris
en compte qu'une partie du materiel prevu; le reste a ete pris en charge sur le projet IDA.



-32-
Volet DGT
Securite routiere
Cette composante est executee par la Direction generale des Transports, avec l'assistance d'un
consultant specialiste en securite routiere.
Les actions initialement prevues ont ete realisees en grande partie (analyse des accidents de la route,
formations des moniteurs d'auto-ecole et des agents des forces de l'ordre ainsi que des examinateurs
des permis de conduire, formation des conducteurs de taxis aux premiers secours aux victimes des
accidents de circulation, identification des points noirs en milieu urbain, etc.) a l'exception de la
mise en place des organes charges de la gestion de la securite routiere au Togo tels que l'Office de
Securite Routiere (OSR), et le Conseil National de Securite Routiere (CNSR) et la construction du
Centre de Contrble Technique d'Automobiles (CCTA).
Les raisons principales sont: la mise en cause du projet due aux changements frequents des
responsables intervenus tant au niveau du Ministere charge des Transports qu'au sein de la Banque
Mondiale. Finalement le credit alloue pour la construction du Centre de Contr6le Technique
d'Automobiles (CCTA) a ete affecte au fmancement des travaux d'entretien partiel de l'axe nord-
sud (RN1) qui se trouvait dans un etat de degradation tres prononc6e
4. Evaluation des performances de l'AID
La Banque Mondiale, par les biais des chefs de projet et de la Mission Residente, a organise un
suivi regulier et continu de l'execution du projet. Cet encadrement efficace a permis de recentrer a
tout moment les orientations des composantes du projet pour une meilleure adaptation aux
conditions locales ou exterieures de l'heure.
Depuis la crise socio-politique au Togo, les experts charges de mission de suivi ont fait preuve, tout
au long de leurs missions, de comprehension, de bon esprit de collaboration et de perseverance pour
aider les autorites togolaises a mener le projet a bons termes, malgre les difficultes socio-politiques
qui ont surgi en fin d'execution, et la lenteur administrative decourageante.
La Banque a apporte un appui remarquable pour aider au renforcement quantitatif et qualitatif de la
Direction Generale des Travaux Publics, en soutenant le recrutement d'une vingtaine de cadres.
Nous apprecions la nouvelle attitude des experts de la Banque Mondiale qui consiste a etablir un
dialogue franc avec les responsables du Togo, pour aboutir a un aide memoire de fin de mission
acceptable par les deux parties. Dans le temps passe, cela se passait autrement.
II est a noter egalement l'effort fait par les chefs de projet pour repondre sans d6lai aux demandes de
non objection sur les dossiers.
5.- Performance de l'Emprunteur
II est logique de reconnaitre que les performances de l'Emprunteur sont liees a l'environnement
social, poltique et surtout economique du pays au cours de la periode d'execution du projet.
Le Togo a assure la gestion du projet dans un serenite relative, mais avec ce defaut de sa lourde
administrative.
Les services techniques ont bien maitrise les procedures de passation des marches selon les
principes de la Banque Mondiale. La gestion avait beneficie de mission de formation pour se mettre
I l'aise face au mecanisme financier et comptable de gestion.



-33-
Le programme de promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises dans l'execution des taches
d'entretien routier a ete une exp6rience reussie dans 1'ensemble et merite d'etre soutenu et ameliore
pour la consolidation de l'intervention des PME locales.
Le Gouvemement devra perfectionner le programme d'utilisation des bureaux d'etude locaux pour
les suivi de l'execution des travaux des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises. L'experience d'association
des bureaux d'etudes etrangers avec les bureaux locaux doit etre poursuivie pour les prestations plus
importantes.
6. Lecons et recommandations
6.1. Lecons tiries du projet
La premiere lecon A tirer du projet est qu'il faut ex6cuter les composantes le plus vite possible pour
maintenir le couit global du projet dans l'estimation, selon les conditions economiques initiales, sans
trop d'6carts.
Les contours r6glementaires, juridiques et socio-technique de chaque projet doit etre finalise avant
d'engager les actions. Les engagements entre la Banque Mondiale et les hautes autorites
gouvernementales doivent etre clairs et concrets avant la mise en route du projet afin d'eviter les
post-blocages, et les malentendus e-ntre les experts de suivi de la Banque Mondiale et les services
techniques togolais.
Le retard dans la passation des marches et leur liquidation (paiement) est, en grande partie, un retard
collectif de l'administration qui regroupe autour du projet, 3 ministeres (Equipement, finances et
plan). La responsabilite de chaque ministere n'est pas determinee, mais reelle.
Le rapport final du projet a e  une epreuve de recherche alors que des rapports A mi-parcours, sur
un plan de rapport bien defini au depart, auraient servi de base pour l'elaboration facile du rapport
d'achevement.
6.2. Recommandations
Au  moment oui ce rapport s'acheve, le rapport d'evaluation  du  prochain programme
d'investissement du secteur routier a dejA pris forme. En ce qui conceme les recommandations A
formuler, nous remarquerons que les lecons tirees et les enseignements recus apres 1'execution du
projet precedent (1861-TO) sont prises dejA en compte dans le futur projet A travers les conditions
prealables A l'evaluation, aux negociations et A la mise en vigueur.
Mais il est toutes fois A recommander ce qui suit:
i). Des mesures ont ete prises pour ameliorer l'efficacite des procedures de passations de
marches: ne faudrait-il pas pour cela une structure de suivi de la mise en application? Le
rapport de 1' etude de reforme des passations des marches avait insiste sur cette disposition.
ii). L'intervention des unites des Travaux Publics pour les travaux en regie quoique
consideree inefficace par les experts de la Banque Mondiale doit 8tre maintenue dans une
proportion raisonnable, si minime soit elle. Les travaux d'entretien des P.M.E n'est pas en
tous temps ou en tous lieux plus rapide ou de meilleures qualites que les travaux executes
par la regie T.P. C'est une realite. La partie des travaux reserves A la regie pourraient etre
executes sur conventions en regie suivi par un controle dans les memes conditions que les
P.M.E.



-34-
iii).Les cadres techniques de l'administration souhaitent recevoir des formations specialisees
pour mieux maitriser leurs taches de programmation, de planification, d'etudes et de
controle; cela necessite une familiarisation adequate avec des logiciels tels que:
- les logiciels de gestion financiere et du personnel
- les logiciels sur les banques de donn6es ouvrages d'art et banque de donnees routieres.
- les logiciels de conception et de maintenance des routes (HDM, Alize III etc ....... ).
iv). l'Emprunteur souhaite avoir plus de responsabilite dans le choix et la designation des
personnes responsables appeles a diriger les diverses institutions et organismes mis en place
dans le cadre de l'execution dus differentes composantes du la reforme du secteur. La
concertation n'est pas exclue dans un tel exercice.



