Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1861 TO
                (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 29, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1861 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 29,  1988, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the African Devel-
opment Bank (AfDB),  the  Banque  Ouest Africaine de Developpement
(BOAD), the Federal Republic  of Germany through Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), Fonds  d'Aide  a  la Cooperation (FAC), Caisse
Centrale  de  Cooperation  Economique  (CCCE),  Fonds  Europeen de
Developpement (FED),  Saudi  Fund  for  Development  (SFD), United
Nations  Capital  Development  Fund  (UNCDF)  and  United  Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) loans  and  grants  in a total amount
equivalent to approximately  sixty-five  million dollars to assist
in financing the Project on the  terms and conditions set forth in
Page  2
the  respective   loan   and   grant   agreements  (the  Financing
Agreements) to be entered  into  between  the Borrower and each of
the aforementioned entities.
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange  of  letters  dated  September  18, 1987, and Octo-
ber 20, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (c)  "MCT" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Commerce and Transport matters;
     (d)  "MEPT" means the  Ministry  of  the Borrower responsible
for Public Works;
     (e)  "MPM" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Planning;
     (f)  "DGT" means the General  Directorate of Transport within
MCT;
     (g)  "DGTP" means  the  General  Directorate  of Public Works
within MEPT;
     (h)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (i)  "CFT" means  Chemins  de  Fer  du  Togo,  the Borrower's
agency responsible for railways operations;
     (j)  "CER"  means  Compte   d'   Entretien  des  Routes,  the
revolving fund referred to in  Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
and
     (k)  "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to thirty-one  million  three  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Page  3
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF francs a special account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments  payable  on  each  March  15 and Septem-
ber 15, commencing March 15,  1998, and ending September 15, 2027.
Each installment  to  and  including  the  installment  payable on
September 15, 2007, shall  be  one  percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment  therafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the  Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have  been  repaid.  If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
Page  4
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any  time  after a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MCT and MEPT  under  the  overall  coordination  of  MPM, with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial  and  engineering  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to  the  generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) above with regard  to the provision of funds, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  open and thereafter  maintain  in  CFAF  and in the
               name of MEPT a revolving fund (CER) in the Treasury
               or in such  other  banking  institution agreed upon
               with  the  Association,  on  terms  and  conditions
               satisfactory to  the  Association;  such conditions
               shall  provide,  inter  alia,  that  CER  shall  be
               operated exclusively  under  the  responsibility of
               MEPT;
         (ii)  deposit   into   CER    an    initial   amount   of
               CFAF 300,000,000; and
        (iii)  thereafter deposit into said  CER  on the first day
               of every calendar  quarter  commencing  on April 1,
               1988,  the  quarterly   amounts   agreed  with  the
               Association on the  basis  of  the annual review of
               the  expenditure   program   for  road  maintenance
               purposes.
     (c)  Amounts deposited  into  CER  pursuant  to paragraph (b)
above  shall  be  used  only   to  make  payments  to  meet  local
expenditures made or to be made  in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services  for  the  Project  not  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     Section 3.02. In order to  carry  out the Project and without
prejudice to the provisions  of  Section  3.01 above, the Borrower
shall, during each year  the  Project  is executed, make budgetary
allocations sufficient to  meet  the  funding  requirements of the
Project. To this end, the  Borrower  shall,  by October 31 of each
year submit to the Association,  for  its review and comments, the
expenditures for the  transport  sector  program and related draft
budget for its following fiscal year.
     Section  3.O3.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain  DGTP   with   functions  and  responsibilities
satisfactory  to  the  Association   and  promptly  implement  all
measures included in the  action  plan agreed with the Association
for the purposes of strengthening DGTP's operations;
     (b)  by December 31, 1988,  establish  a National Road Safety
Board  with   membership   and   functions   satisfactory  to  the
Association;
     (c)  by December 31,  1988,  submit  to the Association three
separate action  plans  (namely  the  CFT  Action  Plan,  the Cost
Recovery  Action  Plan  and  the  Road  Safety  Action  Plan)  all
satisfactory to the Association, respectively for the purposes of:
(i) determining the future of  CFT; (ii) ensuring an adequate cost
recovery for road use by  heavy vehicles; and (iii) improving road
safety conditions; and
     (d)  promptly implement the separate action plans referred to
in paragraph (c) above.
     Section 3.05. During each  year  the Project is executed, the
Borrower shall: (a) include in  its annual investment program only
those projects which  are  technically and economically justified;
any project estimated  to  cost  more  than CFAF 200,000,000 shall
have a demonstrated economic rate  of  return  of at least 12 per-
cent; said rate  of  return  to  be  determined in accordance with
criteria agreed  upon  with  the  Association;  and  (b) except as
otherwise agreed with the Association, carry out only the projects
so included in the annual investment program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and  separate  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The National Road  Safety  Board  referred to in Section
3.04 (b)  of  this  Agreement  shall  have  been  abolished or its
membership and functions  shall  have  been modified without prior
approval of the Association; and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A) The right of the  Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                   ceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
                   for the  financing  of  the  Project shall have
                   been  suspended,  cancelled  or  terminated  in
                   whole or in part, pursuant  to the terms of the
                   agreement providing therefor, or
               (B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  (i) CER has been established  and the initial amount has
Page  7
been  deposited  therein  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Section 3.01 (b)  (ii)  of  this  Agreement; and (ii) arrangements
satisfactory to the Association,  for  management of CER have been
made;
     (b)  DGTP has been  reorganized  in  a manner satisfactory to
the Association and the required senior staff have been appointed;
and
     (c)  the consultants  required  to  carry  out  the CFT study
referred to under Part D.1 of the Project have been employed.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          P.O. Box 387
          Lome
          Togo
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIE TO                       5286
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                          By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                21,100,000       90%
(2)  Equipment, and              3,100,000       90%
     spare parts
(3)  Consultants'                2,600,000       100%
     services
(4)  Refunding of                  240,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepa-                              suant to Section
     ration Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                 4,260,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  31,300,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in  respect  of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to: (i) consolidate pre-
vious investments made  in  the  transport  sector in Togo through
development and carrying out  of comprehensive programs of routine
and  periodic  maintenance,   and   selective  rehabilitation  and
upgrading of  existing  infrastructure;  and  (ii)  strengthen the
Borrower's management capability for the transport sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
A.   Infrastructure Development
     1.   Rehabilitation of about 300 km of paved roads.
     2.   Upgrading of about 50 km of gravel/earth roads.
     3.   Upgrading of about 650 km of feeder roads.
     4.   Execution of routine and periodic maintenance.
     5.   Construction of selected high priority road sections.
B.   Institutional Development
     1.   Strengthening METP's planning and programming capability
          so as to enable  it  to  design appropriate road mainte-
Page  9
          nance and rehabilitation programs  and execute them in a
          timely and efficient manner.
     2.   Strengthening  MCT's  capability  to  formulate adequate
          transport policies and  monitor their actual implementa-
          tion.
     3.   Improvement   of   road   safety   conditions  including
          institutional strengthening,  construction  of a vehicle
          inspection center and acquisition of necessary equipment
          therefor.
     4.   A program to redress the financial situation of CFT.
     5.   Training of relevant staff  responsible for carrying out
          any Part of the Project.
C.   Coastal Protection
     1.   Construction of urgent structures  required to slow down
          the progress of coastal erosion.
     2.   Studies  to  develop  appropriate  measures  to  provide
          optimum  coastal  protection   and   execution  of  said
          measures.
D.   Studies to:
     1.   diagnose CFT's operations with  a  view to assessing its
          future;
     2.   formulate effective  cost  recovery  measures  for heavy
          vehicles; and
     3.   prepare future project components.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the  works  included  in  Parts  A  and  C of the
Project shall be prequalified  as  described  in paragraph 2.10 of
the Guidelines.
3.   To  the  extent  practicable,   contracts  for  civil  works,
equipment  and  spare  parts  shall  be  grouped  in  bid packages
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000 or more each for
civil works and  $100,000  or  more  each  for equipment and spare
parts.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  10
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works for routine and  periodic maintenance and for construc-
tion of drainage structures estimated to cost less than $1,000,000
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association, provided that:
           (i) all bids shall  be  opened  in  public and bidders'
               representatives shall be allowed to be present;
          (ii) criteria  for  evaluating  bids  shall  be  set out
               clearly and communicated to all bidders; and
         (iii) foreign  companies  shall  not  be  required  to be
               incorporated in Togo in order to participate in the
               bidding.
2.   Proprietary  spare  parts  may  be  procured  through  direct
purchase from the original manufacturer.
3.   Goods estimated  to  cost  less  than  $20,000 equivalent per
contract may be  procured  under  contracts awarded through direct
shopping on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three reputable suppliers.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
Page  11
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 400,000 to  be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
Page  12
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
