Report No. PID6126
Project Name                      Bolivia-El Nino Emergency Assistance Project (+)
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Multi Sector
Project ID                        BOPE55974
Borrower                          Republic of Bolivia
Date of this PID                  January 23, 1998
Appraisal Date (expected)         January 26, 1998
Board Date (expected)             April 7, 1998
The El Nino Event
1.      El Nino is an abnormal tropical Pacific Ocean weather pattern occurring at
irregular intervals, which results in an elevation of surface water
temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, causing significant rainfall in some areas
and droughts in others.    There is now a growing body of evidence that these
periodic El Nino events contribute to, or are responsible for, anomalous
weather patterns throughout the world, sometimes of disastrous proportions.
The 1982-83 El Nino event is considered to be one of the strongest of this
century and led to widespread incidence of drought, flooding and severe storms
in five continents, with estimated economic losses of up to $14 billion
worldwide.
The El Nino Emergency in Bolivia
2.      Though the effects of El Nino are felt globally, many countries of Latin
America, including Bolivia are particularly hard hit. The particular
geographic and climatic features of Bolivia make it prone both to very high
levels of rainfall and resultant floods in the plains of the Orient, as well
as drought conditions in the high Andean plains and the valleys of the North
and the East; sometimes, ironically, with both floods and drought in different
parts of the same department.     The very high rainfall, coupled with a
generally low level and poor maintenance of infrastructure facilities cause
flooding and widespread damage and socio-economic dislocation in a country
already with a very high level of poverty. The 1982-82 El Nino event in
Bolivia, for example, is estimated to have led to a reduction in GDP between
1.5-2.0 percent, caused in large part by a decline of 14 percent in the
agricultural sector. The loss of crops, damage to infrastructure facilities,
and outbreak of diseases also led to significant social dislocation and rural-
urban migration.
3.      Based on modern forecasting techniques and the most recent data on sea
surface temperature anomalies, the 1997-98 El Nino event is estimated to be as
strong, or even stronger than the 1982-83 event.      Though localized flooding
and drought conditions are recurrent conditions in Bolivia, these conditions
are likely to be particularly exacerbated in the coming months.      The
Government estimates that up to 600,000 persons, largely in the departments of
La Paz, Cochabamba, Potosi, Santa Cruz, Tarija and Oruro are likely to be
affected by drought conditions, with another 350,000 persons in Beni, Santa
Cruz, La Paz, Cochabamba, Pando and Tarija vulnerable to severe flood



conditions. The resultant losses could lead to a decline in the GDP of up to
2.19 (See 1/) and significant loss of infrastructure capital.
4.      Though the overall scope of the damage caused by the 1997-98 event will
become clear only in the coming months, its first effects are already becoming
apparent in Bolivia. In the flood-prone areas, heavy rainfall in Santa Cruz
and Beni in December has led to flooding of rivers in agriculturally
productive areas, endangering crop production, livestock and rural communities
in these areas. With continuing rainfall, there are now reports of
significant damage to some major transport routes, in particular the road from
Cochabamba to Santa Cruz.
5.      In the higher valleys (i.e. 1800 meters above sea level) and the Andean
highlands of Bolivia, drought conditions are already developing, as the
optimum sowing date in these areas has already passed without the requisite
100mm of rainfall that would normally be needed for the successful
establishment of a crop.    As a result, crop losses are expected to be very
heavy, with 100 percent loss of crops in many unirrigated areas.     In the
department of Tarija, for example, it is estimated that 18,000 acres of crops
have been lost due to the lack of adequate rainfall for the sowing season
already past.   There are similar reports from Oruro and Potosi.      If the
drought persists, the irrigated areas would also be adversely affected over
the next months, since most rivers in the area are already at critically low
levels. Forage production for animal feed has already been reduced to
critical levels in the Altiplano, and the availability of water for animals
will soon become critical.
The Government's Response
6.      Supreme Decree No. 24857, dated September 22, 1997 declared the entire
country in a state of emergency due to the El Nino phenomenon. The decree
also instructed the National System of Civil Defense to prepare an emergency
plan and seek assistance from international sources as needed.     The National
System of Civil Defense includes the National Civil Defense Service and a
multi-sectoral Council of Ministers   headed by the Minister for Defense.    On
October 27, 1997, the Minister of Defense, as the head of the System, issued
a Ministerial Resolution creating a Technical Operations Unit for Assistance
and Support (UTOAF) to plan for, coordinate and manage the national response
to the El Nino emergency.
7.      Though there has been considerable concern on the part of the Government
to a potentially severe impact of the El Nino event, initial progress on the
implementation of prevention activities has been somewhat slow due to the
absence of a strong coordinating body to prioritize and manage the prevention
program and a tight fiscal situation. Lately, the situation has improved as
the UTOAF has now become operational and is acquiring the necessary staff and
infrastructure. Additionally, on December 23, 1997, the Ministry of Finance,
through an emergency line of credit from the Central Bank, released an initial
tranche of about $7 million to undertake the most urgent prevention and
emergency response activities.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
8.      The Government requested assistance from IDA initially during the Annual
Meetings in September 1997, followed by a formal request on November 7, 1997.
-2 -



An Identification Mission visited Bolivia from December 5-20, 1997.
9.      Prevention Phase - The major contribution of IDA's participation thus far
has been in assisting the Government in rationalizing and prioritizing its
prevention program.    The initial program of prevention activities presented
by the prefecturas was highly ambitious, inadequately prioritized and well
beyond the implementation capacity or the financial resources of the country.
Based on discussions with the Bank mission, most departments presented a much
smaller and prioritized version (in most cases, less than 10 percent of their
initial requests) of their prevention program.    Though the El Nino events are
already causing damage in the country, there remain specific prevention
activities that can still mitigate the impact in the coming months. In the
drought areas, for example, though it may well be too late to save any crops,
water management activities such as installation of pumps and drilling of
wells can still help in improving the supply of water for human and animal
consumption. In the flood prone areas, these are likely to consist of
activities such as strengthening of river defenses and cleaning of storm
drainage programs in areas not yet ravaged by flooding.     Based on IDA's
provisional commitment of retroactive financing for prevention activities that
meet certain criteria (defined below), the Central Bank has made available an
emergency line of credit that is now being used to finance urgent prevention
activities.
10.     Reconstruction Phase - IDA's involvement in this phase is likely to
augment the Government's program in two ways: (i) to improve and strengthen
the process of screening and prioritizing the reconstruction investments and
to help ensure their technical and economic soundness. (ii) to support the
Government in developing longer term institutional mechanisms and capacity for
disaster forecasting, planning and management. Such support may take the form
of drawing up a medium term prevention plan to mitigate the impact of future
emergencies and to strengthen the capacity of local institutional to plan for
and manage such programs.
Project Objectives
11.     The main objectives of this operation are:
-- Help reduce the loss of human life and a deterioration of living standards
that may result from the floods and/or droughts caused by the 1997-98 El Nino
event,
-- Help reduce the loss of, or damage to, economic and social infrastructure
that may result from similar events, and
-- Help strengthen Bolivia's capacity to monitor and respond to the impact of
future El Nino phenomena.
Project Description
12.     The proposed emergency operation would be structured in two
phases : (See 2/)
-- The Prevention Phase (September 22, 1997 - April 1998) - Limited
prevention activities have been undertaken thus far (less than $2 million),
largely in the Santa Cruz area. Even at this late stage, there are still some
prevention activities that can be undertaken which will be effective in
mitigating the impact of the 1997-98 El Nino event. IDA will provide
- 3-



retroactive financing for such activities for up to 20 percent of the total
Credit amount provided that: (i) these were undertaken after the declaration
of the El Nino emergency on September 22, 1997 and before end-April 1998,
(ii) these works are located in areas or regions declared to be in a state of
emergency (See 3/), (iii) that these activities be undertaken specifically to
mitigate the impact of the 1997-98 event, and (iv) that they follow IDA's
procurement guidelines for emergency operations.
-- The Reconstruction Phase (May 98 - December 99) - This is likely to form
the core of the IDA operation and is likely to consist of the following
components:
-- Reconstruction of damaged infrastructure facilities The full impact and the
specific facilities likely to be reconstructed through this operation will not
be known until several more months.    Until then, it is not possible to define
the scope and content of a rehabilitation program. Based on the experience of
the 1982-83 event, it is likely to include reconstruction of (i) damaged
roads, bridges and urban streets, (ii) hospitals, health posts and schools,
(iii) irrigation and drainage systems, (iv) water supply and electricity, (v)
river training, defenses and embankments.    Investments sub-projects to be
financed under the reconstruction phase would have to meet the following
eligibility criteria:
-- the damaged infrastructure facility/service must have existed before the
disaster and was used for its intended purpose,
-- there exists a clear cause and effect relationship between the 1997-98 El
Nino event and the damage to the facility, e.g. damage to an infrastructure
facility in a previous year would not be eligible for reconstruction,
-- there exists a competent executing agency,
-- there exists an acceptable technical, economic and environmental rationale
for rehabilitation,
-- the specific reconstruction sub-project must have been included in a list
presented to IDA no later than one year after loan effectiveness.
Based on these eligibility criteria, most of the reconstruction activities to
be financed under this operation are expected to be in areas that experience
significant flooding, largely in the departments of Santa Cruz and Beni.
-- Labor Intensive Rural Works Program    - Given current estimates of
significant loss of crops and incomes in the Andean highlands and the valleys
due to drought conditions and the high incidence of poverty in these areas, a
targeted and time-limited program of labor intensive rural works for
rehabilitation and/or construction of public infrastructure may also be
included in the project. Such a program would provide a safety net to the
most vulnerable groups of society and potentially stem a crisis-induced rural-
urban migration as was witnessed in the aftermath of the 1982-83 event. These
generally small rural works would also strengthen sustainable agricultural
capacity of drought-prone areas in the long run.
-- Institutional Strengthening - This sub-component will finance technical
assistance to the project coordination unit both for the technical evaluation
of the sub-projects presented to it for financing as well as in project
administration activities. Technical assistance may also be made available to
the decentralized units to identify, analyze and manage the implementation of
the sub-projects. This component is also likely to finance activities to
strengthen local capacity to plan for and manage prevention works to mitigate
- 4 -



the impact of future El Nino events.
Project Management and Administrative Arrangements
13.     Sub-project Identification and Implementation - Specific sub-projects for
prevention and the reconstruction phase would be identified and implemented by
departmental prefecturas and other public institutions that have presence and
experience in managing such works, such as the National Service for Roads.
These sub-projects would typically be implemented through contracting of firms
following IDA guidelines on procurement. IDA financing would be limited to
the prefecturas and other entities that have proven project management
capacity, have developed familiarity with IDA procedures and have a
satisfactory financial management and accounting system. In addition, IDA
will also require periodic technical audits of a sample of the activities
financed under the IDA credit to verify that the works have been implemented
in accordance with the eligibility criteria and other guidelines agreed upon.
14.     Project Management and Coordination - Overall project coordination of the
project activities will be undertaken through a partnership between UTOAF,
which is the existing institutional structure for emergency operations, and
representatives from the Ministry of Hacienda in their responsibilities for
expenditure authorization. The exact details of the project coordination
arrangements will be discussed with the Government during appraisal. The
project coordination unit will be responsible for the approval of all sub-
project requests for financing based on a technical, economic and
environmental evaluation. Given the immediacy and the complexity of the
operation, the project coordination unit is likely to be strengthened with the
hiring of a project management firm that would bring in technical expertise in
the screening and technical evaluation of sub-projects and the establishment
of a financial management system.
Lessons Learned from Other Emergency Operations
15.     The main lessons from other emergency operations are:
-- Speed of response is critical, thus the operation should be focused and
simple, with few add-on components,
-- Project design should be flexible and not over-specified in order to respond
to evolving emergency needs. This is particularly important for an operation
such as this in which the full nature of the damage will not be apparent at
the time of Board approval.
-- Effective implementation requires a strong coordinating agency with clear
authority and well defined, simple operating procedures.
-- International experience shows that the benefits of long term disaster
prevention are well justified in the context of potential disaster scenarios
that may occur recurrently in the absence of such measures. It is important
therefore that the country develop adequate institutional capacity to plan for
and manage future emergency situations.
Procurement Arrangements
16.     The project is expected to finance small civil works, a limited amount of
equipment, consultancy services and salary payments for a rural public works
program.   Procurement guidelines will be defined during appraisal and will be
designed to balance the need for flexibility and speed of an emergency
response and the existing institutional framework in the country.     Much of
- 5 -



the procurement under this operation is likely to be for civil works which may
be procured through competitive bidding, shopping procedures or direct
contracting for very small works.
Project Costs
17.     Given the late start to the prevention activities, it is estimated that at
most $5 million of prevention activities are likely to be implemented before
end-April 1998. For the reconstruction phase, project costs cannot be
estimated at this point, given that the likely extent of possible flood damage
will only be known in the coming months and there is virtually no data
available on the damage from the 1982-83 event.     For the labor intensive
rural works program, the IDA team will work with the Government to develop
eligibility and targeting criteria for a time limited program within an
envelope of about $10 million. The institutional strengthening component is
expected to cost about $2 million.
Project Financing
18.     An IDA Credit of $25 million is being planned.    About $1.5 million of
financing is also available from the UNDP and the European Union for
institutional support activities. The Government may mobilize additional
bilateral and multilateral financing if the reconstruction costs of the 1997-
98 El Nino event appear to be higher.
Risks
-- Given the lack of prevention and planning activities and generally weak
implementation capacity, damage to infrastructure facilities and loss of human
life, outbreak of disease, hunger and social dislocation may be significant,
leading to greater social and economic dislocation than if there had been an
effective prevention program.
-- Weak implementation capacity of the decentralized agencies may lead to slow
implementation of works and the works may not be technically adequate or
sustainable.   This could lead to prolonged disruption of economic activity.
-- Another risk for such an emergency operation is that some of the sub-
projects presented may not directly be related to the impact of the El Nino
event. Bolivia is a particularly vulnerable country where floods and droughts
similar to those expected in the 1997-98 season are a fact of life even in
other years. Some of the reasons lie in its climatic characteristics, poverty
and generally poor state of infrastructure works that could have mitigated the
impact of climatic conditions. While this risk cannot be completely
eliminated, it is addressed through the design of a strong screening unit and
a limited size of the reconstruction program to force the decentralized
entities to focus on the most important works.
1/ Based on estimates by Unit for Political and Economic Analysis,
Government of Bolivia, 1997.
2/ In addition, there is likely to be an emergency phase consisting
of standard disaster response activities during the immediate
aftermath (90-100 days) of the disaster being declared.
Given IDA's limited experience in relief and its mandate for longer term
- 6 -



development work, it is expected that specialized international and local
relief agencies will take the leading role in this phase.
However, IDA may, if requested, finance specific goods such as
mobile bridges or power plants that may be needed in this phase.
3/ Though the initial Supreme Decree declares the entire country to be
in a state of emergency due to the El Nino phenomenon, it is
expected that the Government will supplement this general decree
with declarations of an El Nino emergency in more specific geographical
areas.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458 5454
Fax No.: (202)522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Process by the InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998
- 7 -



Annex
Environmental, Resettlement and Social Considerations
This is a Category B project. During appraisal, agreement will be reached
with the Government on the procedures to be followed for ensuring satisfactory
environmental screening of all sub-projects to be financed through the Credit.
There is also likely to be some temporary, and possibly some permanent,
resettlement of families, especially in areas seriously affected by floods.
The guidelines to be followed for these activities will be agreed upon with
the Government during appraisal and will be consistent with IDA's Operational
Directives on resettlement activities.
The El Nino event is also likely to have significant social impact and
dislocation, as was demonstrated by significant rural-urban migration during
the 1982-83 event. The rural public works program is designed to mitigate
some of the adverse social impact. The proposed design of the operation with
sub-project identification and implementation undertaken by decentralized
entities also allows for greater scope of community participation. The
Operating Manual for the project will include mechanisms to ensure appropriate
participatory input in the identification of reconstruction sub-projects.
- 8 -



