Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17360-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARCH24, 1998
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure SMU
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru CMU
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Effective: March 17, 1998
Currency Unit =Bolivar
US$1.00 = Bs 5.44
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
COM                   Council of Ministers
EIS                   Environmental Impact Statement
ERL                   Emergency Recovery Loan
FAO                   Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
MSD                   Ministry of Sustainable Development
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NOAA                  National Oceanic and Atmosphere Agency
OD                    Operational Directive
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
SENADECI              National Service for Civil Defense
SENAMHI               National Service for Meteorology and Hydrology
UTOAF                 Technical Operations Unit for Assistance and Support
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director: Krishna Challa (Acting)
Task Team Leader/Co-Task Manager: Eugene D. McCarthy/Jyoti Shulda



BOLIVIA
El NirSo Emergency Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives ....................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ...............................................              ,      ,       .       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .............................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ....................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...................... 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components .......................                 ..                         .           .            6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ............................ 7
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.. 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..................................... 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................ 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ........................................................ I I
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ........                                                                          ,. 12
2. Financial ........                                                                                              12
3. Technical ........                                                                                              12
4. Institutional ........                                                                                          12
a. Social ........                                                                                                  13
6. Environmental assessment .....................                                                                   13
7. Participatory Approach .....................                                                                    13
F. Sustainability and Risks.
1. Sustainability ..........................                                                                        14
2. Critical risks ..........................                                                                        14
3. Possible controversial aspects ..........................                                                        15
G. Main Loan Conditions ..........................                                                                             15
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                                                        15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                                                      16



Annexes
Annex  1.              Project Design Summary                                                 ......................................... 17
Annex 2.               Detailed Project Description .........................................                                       19
Annex 3.               Estimated Project Costs .........................................                                            21
Annex 4.               Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .........................................                            22
Table A.               Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .........................................                        25
Table Al.              Consultant Selection Arrangements .........................................                              26
Table B.               Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ............................... 27
Table C.               Allocation of Loan Proceeds .........................................                                     28
Annex  5.              Project Processing Budget and Schedule .........................................                             28
Annex   6.             Assessment of the Drought Situation in Bolivia .........................................                       29
Annex 7.               Monitoring: Performance Indicators and Implementation Plan .......................... 33
Annex 8.               Environment Assessment .........................................                                              34
Annex 9.               Documents in Project File .........................................  39
Annex  10.             Prevention Works Eligible for Financing .........................................                             40
Annex 11.              Statement of Loans and Credits .........................................                                      53
Annex 12.              Country at a Glance .........................................                                                54
Map



BOLIVIA
El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Management Unit
Date:                                                  Task Team Leader/Co-Task Manager.
March 23, 1998                                         Eugene McCarthy/Jyoti Shukla
Country Manager/Director.                              Sector Director
Isabel Guerrero                                         Krishna Challa (Acting)
Project ID:             Sector                         Program Objective Category:
BO-PE-55974          _  Multi-sectoral                 Emergency Assistance
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Credit          Program of Targeted Intervention: T  I Yes | * J No
Project Financing Data                     [  Loan       I*  Credit      I  Guarantee        [1 Other
[Specify]
Amount (USSm/SDRm): US S 25 million equivalent/SDRs 18.5 million
Proposed terms:
Grace period (years): Standard (10 years)
Years to mnaturity: Standard (40 years)
Commnitment fee: Standard (a variable rate between 0% and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance set annually by the
Executive Directors of IDA).
Service charge: Standard (0.75%)
Financing plan (USSm): $28.3 million equivalent
Source                                Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                         3.3                                    3.3
IDA                                                                2.5                22.5               25.0
Other (specify)
Total                                                 28.3
Borrower             Republic of Bolivia.
Coordinating Agency: Technical Operations Unit for Assistance and Support (UTOAF), Ministry of Defense.
Implementing Agencies: Decentralized agencies such as prefecturas (departmental governments), municipalities and other public
agencies.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYAJSSM):          1998        1999       2000       2001
Annual       5.0        9.0        8.0         3.0
Cumulative      5.0       14.0        22.0       25.0
Project implementation period:     2.5 years
Expected effectiveness date:      June 1, 1998
Expected closing date:            December 31, 2000
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



A: Proiect Development Obiectives
1. Project Development Objectives: (see Annex 1):
* Help reduce the loss of human life and a deterioration of living standards that may result from the floods and/or droughts caused
by the 1997-98 El NiAo event,
* Assist in reducing the loss of, or damage to, economic and social infrastructure and disruption of economic activity that may
result from this event,
* Assist in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure facilities damaged by the El Niflo floods, and
* Help restore the agricultural productive capacity for the next sowing season in areas affected by drought caused by El Niflo
related phenomena.
2. Key Performance Indicators:
Outcome Indiators
*  Economic activity indicators for the areas flooded as a result of the El Nifuo related floods for the current and the following year.
* Agricultural harvests of key crops ( potatoes, wheat, barley and quinua) for the current 1997-98 season as a measure of the
effectiveness of the preventive works.
* Agricultural harvests for key crops for the 1998-99 season in the drought affected areas as a measure of the effectiveness of the
component for the regeneration of agricultural capacity.
* In the flooded areas, damage to infrastructure facilities and agricultural productive land areas as compared to other years of
similar or average rainfall.
Otput Indicators
*  Time taken to restore infrastructure facilities damaged by floods as compared to planned schedule.
*  In the drought areas, number of pumps, wells installed/rehabilitated and operational and number of conununitiestpopulation
served by these.
* Time taken to install these facilities, in particular the timeliness of such restoration to be effective for the next sowing season in
November-December 1998.
Inpuotmpmentaion Progress Indicators
* Number of decentralized agencies that have demonstrated adequate implementation capacity and have signed Implementation
Agreements with UTOAF - their breakdown by level of government (how many municipalities), their geographic consistency
with areas of greatest need for emergency activities and poverty levels. These indicators will assist the supervision teams in
assessing whether project is designed adequately to reach the neediest population groups.
*   Geographic incidence of sub-project requests and its consistency with areas considered to be the most affected by objective
criteria of rainfall, temperature, harvests etc. This indicator will assist the supervision missions in assessing whether project
design is adequate to reach the neediest groups.
*   Percentage of sub-project requests submitted to UTOAF and accepted or rejected, broken down by geographic areas, by type of
sub-projects, and by type of implementation agency (prefectura/municipality). These indicators will assist in identifying
particular areas of weaknesses in implementation arrangements, technical knowledge or institutional capacity in certain
geographic areas or certain type of implementing agencies.
* Time taken to implement sub-projects, broken down by type of sub-projects, geographic areas and type of implementing
agencies. These indicators wiUl also help in pinpointing weaknesses in the implementation chain.
*   Specific monitorable indicators of implementation for different types of sub-projects (Annex 7).



3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: P-6095-BO          Date of latest CAS discussion: February 8, 1994
The Project supports the CAS' overall goals of promoting economic growth and poverty alleviation by seeking to minimize the
disruption of economic activity as a result of the El NiAo related damage. The focus on the regeneration of economic activity in the
drought prone areas is targeted to some of Bolivia's areas with the highest incidence and depth of poverty.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The El Nifio Emeri'encv in Bolivia
* El Nifo is an abnormal tropical Pacifc Ocean weather pattern occurring every seven to eleven years. There is now a
growing body of evidence that these periodic El NiAo events contribute to, or are responsible for, anomalous weather patterns
throughout the world, sometimes of disastrous proportions. The 1982-83 El Niuo event, which is considered one of the worst
in the century, led to widespread incidence of drought, flooding and severe storms in five continents, with estimated economic
losses of up to $14 billion worldwide.
-  Though the effects of El Nif*o arefelt globally, many countries of Latin America, including Bolivia are particularly hard hit.
The particular geographic and climatic features of Bolivia make it prone both to very high levels of rainfall and resultant floods
in the plains of the Orient, as well as drought conditions in the high Andean plains and the valleys of the North and the East;
sometimes, with both floods and drought in different parts of the same department. The very high rainfall, coupled with a
generally low level and poor maintenance of infrastructure facilities, causes flooding and widespread damage and socio-
economic dislocation in a country that already has very high levels of poverty (70 percent of the population is estimated to be
poor on the "unsatisfied basic needs" criteria).
*  The 1982-83 El Niflo event is estimated to have led to a reduction in GDP betiveen 1.5-2. 0 percent in Bolivia, caused in large
part by a decline of 14 percent in the agricultural sector. The loss of crops, damage to infrastructure facilities, and outbreak of
diseases also led to significant social dislocation and rural-urban migration.
*  The 1997-98 El Ni*o event is estimated to be as strong, or even stronger than the 1982-83 event. The Government estimates
that up to 600,000 persons, largely in the departments of La Paz, Cochabamba, Potosi, Santa Cruz, Tarija and Oruro are being
affected by drought conditions, with another 350,000 persons in Beni, Santa Cruz, La Paz, Cochabamba, Pando and Tarija
vulnerable to severe flood conditions. The Government has also estimated that these could lead to direct losses in agricultural
production of between 9-18 percent due to the projected drought and floods and a decline in the GDP growth of between 0.85
percent and 1.75 percent.1 These estimates do not include possible indirect effects on economic activity and potentially
significant loss of infrastructure capital.
*  Thefirst effects are already becoming apparent in Bolivia even though the overall scope of the damage caused by the 1997-
98 event will become clear only in the coming month&
*  In the flood-prone areas, overall flood damage has been limited thus far, though the full extent of any damage will only
be known after the rains in March and April. Heavy rainfall in Santa Cruz and Beni in December led to flooding of
rivers in agriculturally productive areas, endangering crop production, livestock and rural communities in these areas.
With continuing rainfall there have been reports of damage to some major transport routes, in particular the main
artery from Cochabamba to Santa Cruz.
*  In the drought prone higher valleys (i.e. 1800 meters above sea level) and the Andean highlands of Bolivia, drought
conditions are more clear. The optimum sowing date in these areas has already passed without the requisite 100mm of
rainfall that would normally be needed for the successful establishment of a crop.
Based on estimates by Unit for Political and Economic Analysis, Govenunent of Bolivia, March 1998.



4
Figure 1: Long term and 1997-98 rainfall data for six stations in the drought areas
300_
* Cum Normal       * Cum.
Dee-Jan        Dec'97-Jan'98
250 .                       ...........  ... _ ...  .....   .    ..........
200                   .  .........   ............ _                               ..
10               -.
Cochabamba      Sucre        Potosi         Oruro       Tarja        La Paz
*Rainfall in December-January, which are critical monthis for a successful crop has been recorded to be as low
as 11.3% of the normal rainfall in such periods in a normal year in a meteorological station in Sucre, 27.2%
in a station in Cochabamba, 30.5 % in Potosi, 46.5% in Onuro, 53.4% in Tarija and 59.7% in La Paz (See
Graph 1 and Annex 5 for a more detailed analysis). Quick calculations for stations where long term data is
available suggest that the probability of this amount of rainfall is less than 1 1% for Cochabamba and Tarija
and less than 30% for La Paz.
*In terms of its impact, it should also be noted that even in the best of times, these areas are highly arid with
marginal precipitation, so that even small variations from the average can potentially lead to significant crop
losses. If the drought persists, the irrigated areas would also be adversely affected over the next months, since
most rivers in the area are already at critically low levels. Forage production for animal feed has alreadiy
been reduced to critical levels in the Andean highlands, and the availability of water for animals will soon
become critical.
The Governmtent's Response
•*Declaration of a National Emergency By the issuance of the Supreme Decree No. 24857, dated September 22, 1997, the
Government of Bolivia declared the entire country in a state of emergency due to the El Niflo phenomenon. The decree
instructed the National System of Civil Defense to prepare an emergency plan and seek assistance from intenational sources as
needed. The National System of Civil Defense includes the National Civil Defense Service (SENADECI) and a multi-sectorar
Council of Mfinisters headed by the Minister of Defense. External financing to support the National System of Civil Defense
has been recently secured from the Government of Spain (US$ 15 million), European Union ($700,000) and the  iNDP (US$
200,000).
e  Creation of a Special Technical Operational Unit On October 27, 1997, the Minister of Defense, as the head of the System,
issued a Ministerial Resolution creating a Technical Operations Unit for Assistance and Support (UTOAF). UTOAF's main
responsibilities are to plan, coordinate and supervise the national response to the El Niflo emergency. These tasks are being
carried out in close collaboration with the National Civil Defense Service under the Ministry of Defense, which is the national
body entre with overall responsibility for confronting the emergency response to natural disasters in Bolivia. In essence,
UTOAF is the technical arm of the National System of Civil Defense for the El Niflo emergency, though the actual
implementation of works is carried out through either SENADECI, or in the case of the proposed Project, through decentralized
public entities.
i Slaw Implemrentati on ofPrevention AcTvities Despite considerable concern about the 1997-98 El Nuo   event, initial
progress on the implementation of prevention activities has been somewhat slow due to several reasons. First, the immediate
nature of the emergency in Bolivia at this time comes largely fron the potential effects of creeping drought conditions, which
were slow to be appreciated in the absence of a reliable early wamring system. Second, there is very limited institutional
capacity to plan and prioritize a targeted prevention program within a tight fiscal situation and limited time available. The



5
initial set of prevention activities proposed by the local governments were well beyond the institutional capacity or the financial
resources of the country. UTOAF was only just becoming operational as late as November 1997, and in the absence of a strong
coordinating body to prioritize and manage the prevention program, implementation of the whole program languished.
* Recent Progress on Prioritization and Implementation of a Prevention Program Since end 1997, the situation has improved
as UTOAF has now become operational and is acquiring the necessary staff and facilities. On December 23, 1997, the Ministry
of Finance, through an emergency line of credit from the Central Bank, released an initial tranche of about US$ 7 million to
undertake the most urgent prevention and emergency response activities. US$ 6.26 million of prevention works have now been
approved and many of these are in the process of implementation. Of these, more than half of the works focus on water
management activities in the drought prone areas. Annex 10 provides a list of the types of works which were approved. It is
estimated that about US$ 2 million of works would be eligible for retroactive financing through IDA, conditional on their
consistency with IDA procurement guidelines.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
* As an emergency assistance operation, this Project is primarily designed to support immediate prevention and reconstruction
activities arising from an emergency situation. Therefore, the Project does not seek to address the long term sectoral issues,
which are being dealt with as part of the overall country assistance program. These issues include:
* The absence of a well defined program for the planning, prioritization and maintenance of water management
activities in drought areas to minimize vulnerability to periodic and recurrent drought conditions.
Similarly, in the flood prone areas, the absence of adequate maintenance and technical standards for prevention works
to withstand even normal year rainfall.
* Limited institutional capacity both at the central government level and at the level of decentralized governments to
implement projects and to ensure sustainability with regular maintenance.
e The absence of a systematic early warning system for national emergencies and an institution to plan for and manage
an emergency response.
* Duplication and overlaps of some institutional responsibilities between the National Civil Defense Service and UTOAF
in the collection of emergency information and the emergency response. Not all information is shared across agencies
or used systematically in operational planning.



6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 and 3for a detailed description and costs)
Comnonent                       Cateuorv         Cost       % of   IDA-fin.   % of
(USSM)      Tot    (US$M)  IDA-fin.
Prevention Works Some of these works may be    Physical, other        3.0     11%         2.5      10%
financed retroactively, subject to a maximum
retroactive financing of $2 million.
a. Flood Prevention Works - such as building of
dikes, gaviones, strengthening of river defenses,
cleaning of storm drains etc.
b. Drought Mitigation Works Such as drilling of
wells, installation of water pumps and building of
earthen dams to improve water supply for human
and animal consumption.
c. Emergency Goods Essential equipment such as
bailey bridges, temporary power plants etc. that
may be required for managing an emergency
response.
Reconstruction/Reneneration Pronram  The      Physical, other         18.8   66%         16.0      64%
specific nature and scope of such a program will be
determined once the full impact of the El Niflo
related damage becomes clearer. Resources will be
flexibly allocated across the following potential
activities:
a. Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Flood
Damaged Public Infrastructure Facilities - such
as (i) roads, bridges and urban streets, (ii)
hospitals, health posts and schools, (iii) irrigation
and drainage systems, (iv) water supply and
electricity, (v) river training, defenses and
embankments. Reconstruction works will be
financed in areas determined to be affected by an
El Niflo related drought emergency and would be
subject to pre-determined eligibility criteria
described in Annex 2.
b. Regeneration of Productive Capacity in the
DroughtAreas for the Next Sowing Season These
activities would be limited to eligible drought
affected areas to be agreed with the Government
(see Annex 2) and would include activities such as
the drilling of wells, rehabilitation of small
irrigation systems, building of earthen dams for
preserving water, procurement and distribution of
seeds and other activities that may be needed for
ensuring the regeneration of productive capacity for
the next sowing season.



Institutional Strengthening and Public      Project                  4.0   14%         4.0    100%
Information                                  management,
other
a. Project Management and Supervision
Technical assistance to UTOAF for institutional
strengthening of its capacity to plan and manage
the emergency response, including logistical
support and office equipment.
b. Technical Assistance to Decentralized Entities
in Sub-Project Identification and Implementation
Consulting services to be made available to
implementing agencies for sub-project
identification, feasibility and engineering studies
and sub-project implementation.
c. Improving Medium Term Capacityfor
Monitoring Local Impact and Response to the El
Nifio Events The sub-component will finance a
limited amount of technical assistance to develop a
medium term monitoring and prevention strategy
for preparing for such events in the future.
d Public Information Campaign for public
information and dissemination related to
emergency prevention and reconstruction activities.
4. Project Preparation Facility                                      0.5    2%         0.5    100%
5. Unallocated                                                       2.0    7%         2.0    100%
l_______________________________________ lTotal                     28.3  100%         25.0    100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* None. The emergency recovery credit does not intend to address long term economic, sectoral and institutional problems or
include conditionality linked to macroeconomic or sectoral policies. Longer term issues of the implementation capacity and
maintenance arrangements for the infrastructure facilities in the country are being addressed as part of the country policy
dialogue and policy reforms sought under other investment projects.
* The technical assistance provided through this operation focuses primarily on the urgent need for specialized skills to manage
the emergency response and to help implementing agencies prepare their sub-project requests. Though the development of
medium term institutional capacity to manage emergency response is a secondary objective of this Project, the twinning of a
local counterpart team in UTOAF with the project management firm is intended to lead to some development of such capacity.
* The Project also provides limited support to finance studies and other initiatives for improving domestic institutional capacity to
monitor the local impact of the El Niuio event and to enhance preparedness to manage future emergency situations. More
extensive support for such activities is being provided by other donors, including the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
which is supporting the development of an Early Warning System for drought emergencies jointly with the Ministry of
Agriculture and the SENAMHI (National Service for Meteorology and Hydrology).
3. Benefits and target population:
* In the flood areas, the beneficiaries will be the population at large who will benefit from the avoidance or minimization of
disruption of economic activity because of the prevention works financed through the Credit, or in the event of damage, their
speedy rehabilitation/reconstruction.
* In the drought areas as well, the benefits will be broadly felt as preventive water management works will provide water for



8
human and animal consumption. For the important activities focusing on the regeneration of productive capacity, the primary
beneficiaries will be small subsistence farmers who will be able to undertake sowing in the next season.
The project uses a demand driven approach for identifying sub-project requests by local governments, which would then be
evaluated and approved by UTOAF and is thus not specifically targeted to the poorest groups. However, the project design
recognizes that such a demand driven approach can work to the exclusion of some of the poorest communities, as municipalities
in the poorest areas are also likely to be some of the weakest institutionally and may not be able to identify and implement sub-
projects effectively. To compensate for such an eventuality, project design provides for some funds to assist municipalities in
contracting with other entities, including NGOs and private entities, for project management services to prepare and present
their sub-project financing requests to UTOAF.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination and Management
a) UTlOAF would be the project coordinating agency and will report to a multi-sectoral Council of Ministers, headed by the
Minister of Defense in his capacity as the Head of the National System of Civil Defense.
b) UTOAF is headed by a new Project Director, with demonstrated managerial experience in similar projects and supported by
a core group of local staff with experience and expertise in the following areas: Engineering, Administration, Accounting,
Procurement, and Information Systems. UTOAF also has a representative in each of the nine prefecturas.
c) The institutional capacity of UTOAF is being strengthened by the hiring of a project management firm. This firm is
expected to be hired by the end of April and will bring in expertise in (i) disaster response and management, (ii) technical
evaluation of prevention and reconstruction activities for flood prone and drought areas, (iii) procurement, and (iv) project
administration and financial management.
d) To ensure consistency and transparency, UTOAF will prepare an Operational Manual spelling out the operational
procedures and norms needed to ensure adherence to Government and IDA policies for the approval and supervision of all
project activities. The preparation and approval of such manual is one of the conditions of disbursement for the
reconstruction/regeneration component.
Sub-Project Identification, Screening and Approval
a) Identification of all sub-projects to be financed would be undertaken by decentralized entities who would present a formal
request for financing to UTOAF.
b) UTOAF, together with its technical consultants, would be responsible for the review and evaluation of sub-projects to be
financed. The technical team within UTOAF would provide a written evaluation and recommendation on each sub-project
request based on the eligibility criteria agreed with IDA.
c) Final approval of sub-projects would be undertaken jointly by the Project Director and an authorized representative of the
Ministry of Finance authorizing the expenditure.
Sub-Project Implementation
a) Sub-projects would be implemented by decentralized entities, mostly the prefecturas. However, municipalities and other
Government entities such as the National Roads Service may also become implementing agencies if they are able to
demonstrate adequate implementation capacity. The decision to include specific agencies as eligible implementing agencies
would be taken by the Project Director, on the basis of eligibility criteria spelled out in the Operating Manual, and with the
no-objection of IDA.
b) Decentralized implementing agencies would be required to demonstrate adequate institutional and implementation capacity
to be considered eligible agencies. Such capacity may be evaluated on the basis of their past implementation record of the
public investment program. Agencies that are not able to demonstrate such a record could strengthen their case to be
considered an implementing agency by signing an inter-institutional agreement with another public entity, an NGO or a
private entity with a proven track record in project identification and implementation.
c) Each implementing agency would sign a subsidiary agreement with UTOAF spelling out their counterpart obligations and
responsibilities for sub-project implementation, including counterpart financing, provision of adequate staff resources to
manage and supervise implementation, adherence to IDA procurement and financial management guidelines, periodic
reporting and meeting the standards of IDA financial and technical audits.
d) Procurement, contracting and payments to contractors would be undertaken by these decentralized entities with IDA
guidelines.
e) The institutional strengthening component would be implemented by UTOAF.



9
Project Supervision, Reporting and Audit Requirements
a) UTOAF will, on a periodic basis, supervise the implementation of these sub-projects including undertaking field visits.
b) UTOAF would also make periodic progress reports to IDA undertaking that all project guidelines are being followed.
c) Based on the approved sub-projects, UTOAF would authorize withdrawal of funds from the Special Account, which would
be transferred directly to the implementing agencies, except for those funds to be used for activities implemented by
UTOAF, such as the institutional strengthening component, which would be transferred to UTOAF's fiscal account.
d) IDA will also require six monthly financial cum technical audits for sub-projects being financed which will include an audit
of a sample of projects for their adherence to IDA eligibility criteria, the procurement procedures followed and the technical
adequacy of the works undertaken. This would also include certification of all works undertaken during the prevention
phase.
e) UTOAF would make quarterly project implementation progress reports to IDA.
D: Proiect Rationale
1. Project design alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*  Project Coordination Unit located in the Ministry of Finance The project team gave careful consideration to implementing
this project through a PCU located in the Ministry of Finance, which has greater experience in the allocation of public resources,
rather than through UTOAF which reports to the Ministry of Defense. This alternative was finally rejected because the legal
framework within the country gives explicit responsibility for the planning and management of emergency activities to the
System of Civil Defense, headed by the Minister of Defense. The creation of an alternative unit to manage emergency
prevention and reconstruction activities under another Ministry would have certainly led to duplication and quite possibly, to an
uncoordinated response to an emergency situation. Also, UTOAF, though institutionally weak, has now been operating for a
few months; creating an alternative unit would likely have delayed project implementation further and not adequately taken
advantage of the knowledge developed over the past few months. Finally, the safeguards needed to ensure both the proper and
efficient allocation of public resources are now being provided through the presence of a professional management firm in
UTOAF and through the requirement of periodic technical and financial audits.
* Centralization of the project implementation activities, such as procurement, through UTOAF. Though the project will be
coordinated by UTOAF, sub-project implementation remains in the hands of decentralized entities such as prefecturas and
municipalities because of their comparative advantage in local knowledge and outreach. However, there remains considerable
concern about their implementation capacity and familiarity with IDA procedures. Such inadequacies could significantly affect
the pace of implementation and response to an emergency situation. Thus, an alternative arrangement that was considered was
the centralization of procurement in UTOAF. This was finally not considered to be practical. Though it would have
concentrated more technical knowledge of procurement issues in UTOAF, it would have unduly complicated processing and the
communications logistics with the more remote areas. It was thus decided to maintain procurement at the decentralized levels
while making technical assistance and oversight available from UTOAF to those implementing agencies that may require it.
* Implementation of the drought prevention and regeneration program directly through NGOs To compensate for the weak
institutional and implementation capacity at the decentralized levels, another implementation alternative considered was the
active involvement of NGOs in program delivery. In Bolivia, many NGOs enjoy a great comparative advantage in reaching the
most isolated and poor communities. However, the Government expressed a strong preference that all public funds be
implemented through public entities. It was thus decided that even though all project funds would be channeled through
government entities, these entities would be able to contract the services of NGOs for sub-project identification, preparation of
pre-feasibility studies and contracting implementation. The project team, together with the Govermnent, expects to maintain
extensive consultation/dissemination contact with the major NGOs in Bolivia to keep them well advised of project activities and
eligibility requirements so that they may be able to support the municipalities in their particular areas of operations.
*  Inclusion of an employmentgeneration program as a safety netfor the drought affected areas. This option was given strong
consideration given the high level of poverty in the drought affected areas. Finally, however, this component was dropped from
the Project because of the mission's assessment of a considerable presence of other bilateral donors with similar programs and
additional contingency plans in the event of the declaration of a drought emergency. Safety net programs, including food for
work, school feeding and maternal and child health programs, are currently being implemented through the USAID ($20
million annually through Title II programs), World Food Program ($10 million) and the European Commission ($1.5 million



10
currently with up to 10 million potentially available from the ECO program in the event of the declaration of a drought
omergency). It was concluded that these agencies had a comparative advantage in these programs because of their past
experience and their ability to work directly with NGOs with well established networks and infrastructure for the delivery of
emergency assistance. The IDA intervention in the drought areas was thus kept more directly focused on the regeneratio of
productive capacity for the next sowing season.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                         Project                 Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
IP         DO
Bank-financed
Rural Community Development          S            S
Eastern Lowlands                     S            S
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation     S           S
Social Investment Fund               S           S
Participatory Rural Investment   negotiated.  Board 5/98
Peru: El Niuio Emergency Assistance   S           S
Ecuador: El Niffo Emergency          S            S
Assistance
Argentina: El Niffo Emergency    not yet
Flood Project                    effective.
Other develovment aeencies
Water Services Rehabilitation (IDB)
Roads Rehabilitation Project (IDB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
From other emergency projects:
* Speed of response is critical, thus the operation should be focused and simple, with few add-on components,
- Project design should be flexible and not over-specified in order to respond to evolving emergency needs. This is particularly
important for an operation such as this in which the full nature of the damage was not fully known at the time of appraisal.
* Effective implementation requires a strong coordinating agency with clear authority and well defined, simple operating
procedures.
- International experience shows that the benefits of long term disaster prevention are well justified in the context of potential
disaster scenarios that may occur recurrently in the absence of such measures. It is important therefore that the country develop
adequate institutional capacity to plan for and manage future emergency situations.
From project implementation experience in Bolivia:
* Though decentralized project implementation has the benefit of local knowledge and responsiveness, implementation capacity at
the local decentralized levels is very weak and can significantly delay the pace of project implementation.
* NGOs in Bolivia have strong presence and a track record of implementation and delivery in some of the poorest and most
isolated conununities and compensate for the weaknesses of decentralized government structures.
*  Some experiences with social funds etc. have led to project activities that have not been well targeted or monitored. Hence, six
monthly technical cum financial audits to monitor project activities and adherence to IDA guidelines and eligibility criteria have
been included.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* Declaration of a national state of emergency by Supreme Decree.
l  Creation by the Government of a Special Technical Unit for Operational Support and Strengthening.
* Release of an emergency line of credit by the Central Bank for prevention works.



'I
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  Prevention Phase - The major contribution of IDA's participation thus far has been in assisting the Government in
rationalizing and prioritizing its prevention program. The initial program of prevention activities presented by the prefecturas
was highly ambitious, inadequately prioritized and well beyond the implementation capacity or the financial resources of the
country. Based on discussions with the IDA mission, most departments presented a much smaller and prioritized version (in
most cases, less than 10 percent of their initial requests) of their prevention program.
*  Reconstruction Phase - IDA's involvement in this phase is likely to augment the Govemment's program in two ways: (i) to
improve and strengthen the process of screening and prioritizing the reconstruction investments and to help ensure their
technical and economic soundness. (ii) to support the Govemment in developing longer term institutional mechanisms and
capacity for disaster forecasting, planning and management. Such support may take the form of drawing up a medium term
prevention plan to mitigate the impact of future emergencies and to strengthen the capacity of local institutions to plan for and
manage such programs.
* Donor Coordination - Additionally, the IDA program has been designed in close coordination with the programs of other
donors in the country, IDB, USAID, EC, WFP, the UNDP as well as other bilateral donors. Sustained interaction and exchange
of information has also assisted in the coordination of the several initiatives currently underway by different donor agencies.



12
E: Summary Proiect Analysis
1. Economic:
An economic analysis of the operation is not possible, until the investments to be financed through the operation are known. Sub-
projects to be financed under this operation would be limited to the most urgent and effective prevention works, and all
reconstruction projects to be approved would be evaluated on the basis of economic criteria as well.
2. Financial:
Not applicable.
Fiscal impact:
There is an agreed IBE program which has a fiscal deficit target of 4. 1% of GDP for 1998. Depending on the magnitude of the El
Nifuo related effects on the fiscal position, this target may need to be revisited by the upcoming IMF mission in May 1998. IDA
financing will provide a measure by which the agreed adjustment could be smoothened. The 1999 fiscal deficit targets to be agreed
with the IMF will incorporate the expected El Niffo impact.
3. Technical:
Sub-projects to be financed would follow local technical and environmental standards to strengthen, rebuild or rehabilitate
infrastructure. They would also follow current economically acceptable best-practice to ensure their ability to withstand similar
events in the future and to minimize their environmental impact. Sub-project profiles and financing requests would be reviewed by
the technical team in UTOAF to ensure adherence to this criteria and to provide advice to the implementing agencies.
4. Institutional:
a. Imp1lmng agencies: Bolivia is a country of geographic contrasts, with a highly dispersed population and a strong tradition
of decentralized government. Project implementation experience in Bolivia has shown that the decentralized implementing
agencies are very weak, and this may significantly impact the pace of prevention and reconstruction activities. There is also a strong
perception that the department level government entities, prefecturas, have inadequate knowledge and outreach into the more
isolated communities. Municipalities are the more responsive units of government to reach such beneficiaries, but institutional
capacity in these agencies is even weaker. This emergency project will be implemented within these constraints and project design
has attempted to address some of the identified shortcomings as follows:
* Implementation would be undertaken largely by the Prefecturas. However, municipalities and other decentralized entities that
can demonstrate implementation capacity would also be eligible for financing through the project.
* Though project funds would not be channeled directly through NGOs, they would be considered a partner in implementation. In
particular, municipalities would be able to contract with NGOs and/or other appropriate entities for project identification and
implementation services. Such management fees could be financed through the Credit.
* Technical assistance support within UTOAF would not be restricted to a control function of accepting or rejecting sub-project
profiles, but would be more pro-active in assisting decentralized entities in identifying projects and developing project profiles.
*  UTOAF personnel would screen all potential implementing agencies for adequate implementation capacity. Each
implementation agency would have to sign a subsidiary agreement with UTOAF spelling out its responsibilities for project
implementation.
*  Some funds would be set aside for providing direct technical assistance to implementing agencies, as needed.
b. Projed management: The institutional capacity of UTOAF, in terms of skills, personnel, operational procedures and
management systems has been assessed to be inadequate to managing an emergency response operation of the proposed size and
complexity. In particular, UTOAF does not have an adequate financial management system to coordinate an operation of this size,
as thus far it has been managing a very small amount of resources, largely for its own administration. To this end, considerable
institutional strengthening has been proposed and is part of the conditions for disbursement of the reconstruction/regeneration
components of the Credit. These actions include:
* The hiring of a new Project Director, with demonstrated managerial experience in related sectors and projects.
* The hiring of a specialized project management firm with experience in (i) disaster response and management, (ii) technical
evaluation of water management activities in flood and drought prone areas, (iii) knowledge and experience in IDA procurement
procedures, (iv) establishment and operation of information systems, (v) project administration.
* A small but experienced core team of local counterpart staff.
* Since the process of hiring the project management firm for UTOAF is likely to take at least two months, it has also been agreed



13
that UTOAF would hire short term individual consultants to provide urgent support to UTOAF, specifically in the areas of
technical evaluation of prevention works in the flood and drought areas (2 specialists) and procurement procedures.
*  In addition, UTOAF will also hire immediately two short term consultants to establish an acceptable financial management
system that meets IDA requirements. For this effort, UTOAF is collaborating with the Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino (FDC),
another government entity with experience in IDA projects for inter-institutional assistance in the establishment of such a
system. It is estimated that if these steps are followed, UTOAF may have an acceptable financial management system by June
15, 1998. The establishment of such a system, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of disbursement for the
reconstruction/regeneration component of the Project.
* Periodic financial cum technical audits for a sample of the sub-projects to be financed through the Credit. These audits would
report not only on the financial controls, but also on whether the sub-projects financed followed IDA eligibility criteria and were
implemented in a sustainable manner. Agreement on the terms of reference for the technical auditors would be a condition for
disbursement under the prevention and the reconstruction/regeneration components of the Credit. These auditors would be
hired for the duration of the project, and would present their first report on the implementation of the preventive works being
financed retroactively by September 30, 1998.
5. Social:
* Resettlement activities At this moment, permanent involuntary resettlement is not foreseen as part of the project activities. If,
for any reason, any permanent resettlement activities are necessitated duinng this operation, the Govermment would follow procedures
acceptable to IDA as spelled out in the Operational Manual.
* Rural-Urban Migration A more likely social impact of the El Nifio events, is likely to be an increase in the continuing patter
of rural-urban migration. This is an ongoing phenomenon in Bolivia as able bodied men in the 15-24 years age group migrate
from the arid and poverty stricken rural highlands to cities in search of employment. As mentioned above, specific project
interventions, namely the inclusion of an employment generation program in the vulnerable areas, was considered to stem this
trend. However, it was decided that other agencies have a comparative advantage in the short term safety net interventions that
may be needed in the coming six months. The IDA project would concentrate on a more medium term strategy on the
rehabilitation of water management infrastructure facilities in this area to assure a successful sowing season for the next year's
crop.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category []A   1* I B   I I C
This is considered to be a Category "B" project.
- Most of the sub-projects to be financed through this Credit would fall below a $100,000 threshold and given the emergency
nature of this operation, would not be subject to the nonnal procedures of an environmental impact assessment. UTOAF will
provide a list of anticipated reconstruction activities to the Ministry of Sustainable Development (MSD) and request a blanket
treatment and clearance for such projects.
For the few projects which would fall under IDA or GOB requirements for environmental review and follow up, the procedures
of Bolivia should be used. i.e. those projects costing more than $US 100,000 and not specifically excluded by the list from the
MSD.
* UTOAF would hire on a part time or full time basis as required, a qualified EIS specialist who would have the authority from
the MSD to approve EIS categories, assist in monitoring and selection of sub projects, and the authority to suspend projects
where EIA best practice was not been followed.
* The terms of reference for the project management firm and the Operational Manual would include the consideration of
environmental best practice within economic feasibility as part of the technical evaluation of sub-projects.
* The Operational Manual would include the preparation of guidelines on the environmental best practices for various categories
of works to be undertaken.
* The MSD would provide technical assistance to prefectural units on an as-needed basis. At this moment, the MSD has access to
six international environmental consultants financed through the IDB to be able to provide such assistance. Additional
technical assistance is not considered necessary at this time.
7. Participatory approach
* Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The project uses a demand driven approach to identify and implement
prevention and reconstruction projects, as well as decentralized implementing agencies such as prefecturas and municipalities
which are considered to be more knowledgeable and responsive to local needs. Project design also makes provision for the
contracting of NGOs with experience in local areas.
* Other key stakeholders: The project team, together with representatives of UTOAF and the Ministry of Finance, have met both



14
individually and in larger meetings with representatives of each of the departments in the country, as well as the major NGOs
operating to gather their views, consult and inform them about the project activities. Such consultation will remain a part of the
project implementation process. Terms of reference for the project management firm will also include regular field visits and
coordination for different stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
* Maintenance of the Infrastructure FacUities: Given the emergency nature of this operation, there is no conditionality within
this Project for continued government budgetary or institutional support to maintain the rehabilitated/reconstructed
infrastructure facilities. Inadequate maintenance has been one of the key issues in the infrastructure projects in Bolivia. If these
problems persist, it is possible that at least some of the infrastructure facilities supported through this project will deteriorate
with time, and may expose the population to similar risks in the future. These sectoral issues, however, are generic to the
overall portfolio and are being addressed through a broader country policy dialogue and other investment projects.
*  Institutional abUity to planfor and manage emergency response activities: On the Government's request and strong
insistence, the project is being coordinated through UTOAF. Though UTOAF will be supported by a project management firm,
it will also have a strong counterpart team that should gain experience over time. At this moment, UTOAF will be largely
financed by IDA resources and there are no arrangements for the continued existence of such a unit beyond the period of IDA
financing and hence, the sustainability of such institutional capacity beyond the emergency operation. The institutionalization
of such capacity within a Government entity, though not a conditionality for the Project, will be discussed with the Government
as part of the supervision activities, and would be one of the issues for the Mid Term Review.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk Ratinn     Risk Minimization Measure
"from Outputs to Objective"
*  That there is inadequate and/or unreliable  Substantial    Hiring of professional project
information available on emergency conditions in          management team experienced in
the field and/or that such information is not             emergency situations.
adequately analyzed and used by UTOAF
management team to prioritize sub-projects.
*  That there is inadequate institutional ability to    Substantial  Technical assistance to decentralized
identify effective prevention/reconstruction              entities, and use of NGOs with
projects and/or the works that are undertaken are         knowledge of local conditions.
not the ones most needed for mitigating the
impact of the El Nifdo activities.                        Six monthly technical and financial
audits to ensure that the works follow
IDA eligibility criteria.
Limiting eligibility to geographic
areas judged to be "affected".
*  That certain needy communities, especially the    Substantial  Use of municipalities and sub-
poorest and the most isolated ones, would not             contracting of NGOs for requests
benefit from these works.
*  That the works are not undertaken to technically  Substantial  Same as above.
adequate standards.



15
'from Components to Outputs"
*  That there would not be an adequate management Modest      Hiring of project management firm
team in place in UTOAF.                                   condition of disbursement for the
reconstruction/regeneration of the
Credit
*  That adequate counterpart funding is not    Modest         High percentage of IDA financing.
forthcoming.                                              Political commitment to importance
of emergency activities.
*  That there is inadequate ability to contract and    Substantial  Technical assistance to decentralized
supervise implementation of works.                        entities and use of NGOs.
Overall Risk Rating Substantial
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* Project implementation through a Unit reporting to the Minister of Defense.
* Exclusion/inclusion of certain areas/departments for financing under the Credit because they do not meet certain eligibility
criteria.
* Poor implementation capacity may lead to slow response, exposing IDA to criticism of lack of responsiveness to the needs and
suffering of the population.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Condition for Effectiveness of the Credit:
(a)    That a Subsidiary Agreement has been signed between the Ministry of Finance and UTOAF  spelling out their
respective responsibilities for project implementation.
2. Conditionfor Disbursement Under the Prevention and the Reconstruction/Regeneration Components:
(a)    That the Government and IDA have reached agreement on the Terms of Reference for financial cum technical
audits to be undertaken for project activities.
3. Conditions for Disbursement Under the Reconstruction/legeneration Component:
(a)    That a financial management system acceptable to IDA is in place in UTOAF and is operational;
(b)    The project management firm has been selected and a contract has been signed;
(c)    An Operational Manual for UTOAF, acceptable to IDA, has been approved by the Government;
(d)    Agreement between the Government and IDA on the affected departments/areas that would be eligible for
reconstruction/regeneration assistance through the Credit.
(e)    In the case of drought regeneration activities involving procurement and distribution of seeds ,that (i) UTOAF has
presented to the Bank a report with an analysis of the availability of seeds for the affected provinces and by crop for
the 1998 season; and (ii) UTOAF and the Association agree on the condition and mechanisms for distribution of
seeds.
4. Other:
(a)    That the Government will comply with IDA's environmental and resettlement policies as needed. The process for
ensuring such compliance will be included as part of the Operational Manual for UTOAF. The Government will
also, as needed, make staff available from relevant sectoral ministries to ensure compliance with these policies.
(b)    That the Government will provide quarterly progress reports to IDA and will hold project reviews with IDA
supervision missions;
(c)    That the Government will undertake to contract every six months financial and technical audits for the sub-projects
for the activities being financed through the project. For the prevention activities to be financed retroactively, such
audit will be sent to IDA no later than September 30, 1998.
(d)    All sub-projects for the regeneration of the productive capacity in the drought areas would be presented to IDA
before October 31, 1998 and completed before January 31, 1999.
(e)    All sub-projects for the reconstruction of flood damaged infrastructure must be presented to IDA before December
31, 1998 and completed before June 30, 2000.
(f)    The Government and IDA would jointly participate in an intensive review of El NiAto damage and required



16
financial assistance no later than December 31, 1998. Based on this review and the financing needs, IDA may
cancel the remaining part of the Credit.
HE Readiness for Inplementation
[ The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
I. Not applicable.
5, The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
t ] Not applicable.
'tI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
:1.1 Not applicable.
[  The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*  Technical and management ability to manage the Project.
* Accounting and control capability.
* Operating Manual for UTOAF.
I Compliance with Bank Policies:
[e] The following exceptions to IDA policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with all other applicable Bank
policies.
(a)    The establishment of a financial management system satisfactory to IDA would be a disbursement condition for the
reconstruction/regeneration component of the Project.
(b)    No procurement plan can be provided up-front as all investments are not yet identified. A procurement plan has
been made available for the first set of prevention works to be retroactively financed through IDA, and would be
provided quarterly thereafter.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Eugene D. McCarthy/Jyoti Shukla
Sector Director: Krishna Challa (acting
Country Directonr Isabe-l uerrero



17
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
BOLIVIA: El Niuio Emergency Assistance Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    *  Agricultural production.    *  Ministry of Agriculture.    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Economic growth and poverty   *  Rural-urban migration   *  National Institute of    That El Niffo caused damage
reduction.                      figures as compared to      Statistics data.         will have a negative impact on
average years.                                       economic growth.
That the institutional capacity
developed through this project
in emergency preparedness
and management is sustained.
Project Development                                                                  (Objective to Goal)
Objectives:                 *  Damage to infrastructure   UTOAF and implementing
*  Prevention of damage to     facilities as compared to   agencies.                 *  Macroeconomic stability.
infrastructure facilities.  other years of similar or
*  Speedy restoration of        average rainfall.                                    *  A "normal" year in terms
damaged infrastructure  *  Time taken to restore                                     of rainfall and temperature
facilities minimizing       damaged infrastructure                                   patterns in the coming
economic disruption.        facilities.                                              season.
*  Restoration of capacity in   *  Harvest indicators for the
the drought prone areas     1998-99 season.
for the successful harvest
of the 1998-99 crop.
Outputs:                                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
Degree to which each sub-   UTOAF monitoring and         *  That there is good and
Prevention and reconstruction   project meets its original  reporting.                   adequate information
sub-projects.               schedule.                                                    available on field
conditions.
*  Such information is
analyzed and used by
UTOAF management
team to prioritize sub-
project requests.
*  That the works are
undertaken to technically
adequate standards.
*  That there is adequate
institutional ability to
identify effective
prevention/reconstruction
projects and/or the works
that are undertaken are the
ones most needed for
mitigating the impact of
the El Niffo activities.
*  That needy communities,
especially the poorest and
most isolated, also benefit
from these works



18
Project Components/Sub-     Implementation Indicators                                (Components to Outputs)
components:                                              Monthly reports from UTOAF   That an adequate management
# agencies that have signed  and National Civil Defense    team is in place in UTOAF.
I. Prevention Civil Works $    Implementation Agreements,   Service on damage and crop
3.0 million                 breakdown by level of        losses.                     That adequate counterpart
government, their geographic                             funding is in place.
II.                         consistency with areas of   Implementation progress
Reconstruction/Regeneration    greatest need for emergency    reports on works being  That there is adequate ability
Civil Works, Goods and Seeds  activities and poverty levels.    undertaken.          to and to contract and
$ 18.8 million                                                                       supervise their effective
Geographic incidence of sub-                            implementation.
III. Institution Building $ 4.0  project requests and
million                     consistency with "affected"
areas.
IV. Project Preparation Facility
$0.5 million.               Percentage of sub-project
requests submitted to UTOAF
V. Unallocated $ 2.0 million.   and accepted or rejected with
appropriate analytical
breakdown.



19
Annex 2
BOLIVIA: El Niino Emergency Assistance Project
Project Description
L Prevention Works (US$3.0 million)  Though there has been very limited prevention works in Bolivia thus far, a
limited number of carefully planned and targeted prevention works can still have significant mitigation impact, provided
these get underway immediately.
a Flood Prevention Works - In the particularly flood prone areas these are likely to be works such as building of
dikes, gaviones, strengthening of river defenses, cleaning of storm drainage etc. in areas not already ravaged by
floods.
b. Drought mitigation works - In the drought vulnerable areas, though it may be already too late to salvage this
year's harvest in some areas, preventive works such as drilling of wells, installation of water pumps and building
of earthen dams can have a significant impact in improving water supply for human and animal consumption in
the coming months.
c Emergency Goods The Project may also finance a limited number of goods and equipment that may be needed
for emergency response such as bailey bridges, mobile power plants etc.
Prevention works for mitigating the impact of potential floods and drought impact would be eligible for retroactive
financing through the IDA Credit, subject to a maximum of $2 million for retroactive financing, or 8% of the planned
Credit, provided they meet the following eligibility criteria: (i) That they be undertaken after the declaration of emergency
on September 22, 1997, and (ii) that they have followed IDA procurement guidelines. During appraisal, the IDA mission
reviewed the proposed prevention works to be refinanced through the IDA Credit. A list of these preventive works is
presented in Annex 10.
I. Reconstruction/Reeneration Program (US$18.8 million)
The specific nature and scope of such a program will be determined in the coming months once the full impact of the El
Niflo related damage becomes clearer. However, activities likely to be financed under such a program would include:
a. Reconstruction and/or Rehabilitation of Flood Damaged Works This sub-component can finance
reconstruction and/or rehabilitation of public infrastructure such as (i) roads, bridges and urban streets, (ii)
hospitals, health posts and schools, (iii) irrigation and drainage systems, (iv) water supply and electricity, (v) river
training, defenses and embankments which may have been damaged by floods. Such reconstruction works would
only be financed in specific areas determined to have been particularly affected due to the El Niffo phenomena.
The appraisal team made significant efforts to identify some objective quantitative criteria of rainfall to determine
such eligible areas. However, given available data in Bolivia and the number of variables that could affect such
flooding, it was decided that objective cutoff criteria would be excessively rigid. It was thus decided that
agreement on affected areas would be reached between IDA and the Government jointly using available data and
other available information. Agreement on the areas thus considered eligible would be a condition for
disbursement on the reconstruction/regeneration program. Additionally, the reconstruction of specific
infrastructure works would be subject to the following pre-determined eligibility criteria:
* the damaged infrastructure facility/service must have existed before the disaster and was used for its
intended purpose,
* there exists a clear cause and effect relationship between the 1997-98 El Niflo event and the damage to
the facility, e.g. damage to an infrastructure facility in a previous year would not be eligible for
reconstruction,
* there exists a competent executing agency to implement the activity,
* there exists an acceptable technical, economic and environmental rationale for rehabilitation,
* the specific reconstruction sub-project must have been included in a list presented to IDA no later than
December 31, 1998
* that the reconstruction/rehabilitation work be completed on or before June 30, 2000.



20
b. Regeneration of Productive Capacity in the Drought Areas. This component would finance specific civil
works in drought areas to ensure the regeneration of productive capacity for the next sowing season. Such
activities would include:
(i) Drilling of wells, rehabilitation of small irrigation systems, building of earthen dams for preserving
water.
(ii) Production and distribution of seeds for the next sowing season. Activities related to the production
and distribution of seeds may be presented to UTOAF as stand-alone sub-projects, or in conjunction with
other productive activities needed for the regeneration of productive capacity in the drought areas.
Though this component will be coordinated through UTOAF, UTOAF intends to work closely with the
National Council of Seeds in the evaluation of any such sub-project requests. Additionally, before
UTOAF would approve any sub-projects including the production and distribution of seeds, it would
present to IDA, as a disbursement condition, an analysis of the seeds availability situation in the affected
provinces, broken down by type of crop. Also, prior to the approval of any such sub-projects, UTOAF and
IDA would also agree, as a disbursement condition, on the principles for the distribution of seeds to the
final beneficiaries. This design flexibility on the distribution mechanisms has been maintained, as the
distribution mechanisms for seeds may vary across \ provinces depending on the nature of the problem,
the agencies used for seeds distribution and their historical programs and implementing mechanisms in
those areas.
Financing of all regeneration works would be limited to geographic areas determined to be significantly affected by
a drought related to the 1997-98 El Niuio event. Agreement on the areas eligible for assistance under this sub-
component is a condition of disbursement for the reconstruction/regeneration program. Since this component is
specifically targeted towards the regeneration of the productive capacity for the next sowing season of November-
December 1998, all works to be financed through this component must be presented to IDA for its no-objection by
October 31, 1998 and must be completed by January 31, 1999.
HL Institutional StrensEthenins and Public Information (US$ 4.0 million)
a Project Management and Supervision Given limited institutional capacity in UTOAF for planning and managing the
emergency response, this component will finance:
(i) Immediate short term assistance for technical evaluation of the flood and drought water management programs
and procurement issues, to be brought on board as soon as possible before a project management firm can be
contracted and be in place.
(ii) The hiring of a specialized project management firm to coordinate and plan the emergency response, provide
technical evaluation of sub-project requests from decentralized entities and provide project administration services.
(iii) A local counterpart team of consultants that will fonn the core team in UTOAF to manage the project. This
local team will also form the core of a more mediwu term disaster response team in the country.
b. TechnicalAssistance to Decentralized Entities in Sub-ProjectlImplemnentation. As required, Credit resources may also
be used to provide limited technical assistance to decentralized entities to assist them with identification of sub-projects, the
preparation of sub-project financing profiles, engineering and technical feasibility studies and implementation supervision.
c. Improving Medium Term Capacity for Monitoring Local Impact and Response to the El NiFto Events This sub-
component will finance limited technical assistance to help the Govermnent prepare a medium term strategy for managing
similar events in the future. Ideally, this strategy would be prepared by the same project management firm that would have
managed this emergency operation, incorporating lessons from experience.
d. Public Information Campaign The Credit may also provide a small amount of resources for financing public
information and dissemination activities related to the Government's response to the El Nifio emergency prevention and
reconstruction activities.
TV.    Project Preparation Advance ($0.5 million)
V.     Unallocated ($ 2 million equivalent)



21
Annex- 3
BOLIVIA: El Niiio Emergency Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                             Total
US$ millions
Prevention and Emergency Goods Program                        3.0
Reconstruction/Rehabilitation Program                         18.8
Technical Assistance                                          4.0
Project Preparation Advance                                   0.5
Unallocated                                                   2.0
Total Project Cost                                           28.3



22
Annex 4
BOLIVIA: El Ninlo Emergency Assistance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Borrower will follow the Bank's guidelines for the procurement of civil works, goods and consultant services.
Given the demand nature of the operation, and the urgent works and repairs expected to be carried out, there is no up-front
procurement plan. The proposed methods and thresholds are simplified on the basis of estimates and flexibility. The
following table summarizes the procurement arrangements:
Procurement Methods
Emergency Prevention Phase               Reconstruction Phase
Civil Works
International     For civil works costing more than $ 2 million   For civil works costing more than $ 2 million.
Competitive
Bidding
National         For civil works less than $ 2 million but more  For civil works costing less than $ 2 million
Competitive      than $150,000                             but more than $150,000
Bidding
Simplified, (15 days for bid submission, quotes  Standard NCB procedures apply
in local currency, use of standard documents).
Up to a maximum of US$ 5.5 million for the whole Project.
Shopping         For civil works less than $150,000.       For civil works less than $150,000
procedures
(3 written quotations, 10 days bid submission,
award to lowest bidder, use of standard form of
contract).
Subject to a maximum limit of: $2.5 million    Subject to a maximum limit of: $4.5 million
for the prevention phase.                for the reconstruction phase.
Direct contracting  For works costing less than $ 50,000   None.
Subject to a maximum limit of: $ 2 million for
the prevention phase.
Force Account    For small rehabilitation public works estimated  Same.
to cost less than $50,000 per contract, subject
to the provisos that these works be carried out
in municipalities with less than 1,500
inhabitants and be certified and valued by an
independent firm.
Up to a maximum aggregate amount of $1
million equivalent for the prevention and



23
reconstruction phases combined.|
Goods
ICB               Goods in packages costing more than $150,000.
Shopping          For individual contracts less than $150,000
Up to an aggregate of $ 200,000 for the prevention and the reconstruction phases combined.
Direct contracting  For emergency goods on the approved list, such as mobile bridges, power plants, gaviones
costing less than $100,000 per contract.
Up to an aggregate of $ 0.5 million for the prevention and the reconstruction phases combined.
Direct                                                       For procurement and distribution of seeds
Contracting                                                  estimated to cost less than $50,000.
Up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 for
the Project.
Consultin!
Services
Short list of at  For consulting firm contracts > than $75,000.'
least three
international
firms using QCBS
procedures.
Shortlist of      Consulting firms with contracts less than $75,000
domestic
consultants using
QCBS
procedures.
Single source     Specialized engineering consulting firms with disaster management skills.
selection
Up to an aggregate amount of $200,000
.Selection based    Technical services for the institutional strengthening component with contracts less than
on consultants'    $20,000. Up to an aggregate amount of $500,000.
qualifications.
Individuals       Short-term services for UTOAF up to an aggregate of US$680,000.
1 In the case of the hiring of a project management firm for UTOAF, selection is being undertaken on the basis of an international
short list. However, given the emergency nature of the operation and the urgency of getting this consulting firm in place, it was not
possible to place an announcement in Development Business.



24
Annex 4, Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millionsequivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB        Other        N.B.F
1. Works                          3.0          5.5        10.0                        18.7
(2.5)       (4.9)       (8.6)                     (16.0)
2. Goods                           1.4                     1.70                        3.1
(1. 1)                  (1.4)                      (2.5)
3. Services                                                4.0                         4.0
(4.0)                      (4.0)
4. Project Preparation Advance                             0.5                         0.5
(0.5)                      (0.5)
5. Unallocated                                             2.0                         2.0
(2.0)                      (2.0)
Total                           4.4         5.7         18.2                       28.3
(3.6)       (4.9)      (16.5)                     (25.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit



25
Annex 4, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                            Total Cost
Consultant Services Expenditure                                                                     (including
Category                                                                                contingencies)
Category__________QCBS         QBS       SFB      LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.   contngenies
A. Firms                     2.4                                    0.5       0.2                3.1
B. Individuals                                                      0.9                          0.9
Total 2.4                                    1.4      0.2                 4.0
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



26
Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Review by the Bank All ICB contracts will require prior review by the Bank. The first two contracts for civil works using
NCB procedures will require prior review by IDA. Prior review will also be required for the first two civil works contracts
and for the first goods contract procured under shopping procedures. All direct contracting for goods will be subject to prior
review. There will also be prior review for all consultant contracts.
Expenditure         Contract Value       Procurement  Contracts Subject  Estimated Total
Category            (Threshold)           Method             to          Value Subject to
Prior Review I    Prior Review
US $ thousands                       US $ millions
1. Works
Prevention        More than $2 million    ICB                      All                 3.0
Less than $2 million but    NCB               First two                3.0
greater than $150,000
Less than $150,000 but   Shopping             First two                0.2
greater than $50,0002
Less than $50,0003       Direct               First two                0.1
contracting
Less than $50,0004       Force Account           None
2. Goods
More than $150,000       ICB                       All                 0.9
Less than $150,0005      Shopping                 First                0.5
Emergency Equipment      Direct               First two                1.0
costing less than $100.0006  contracting
Seeds costing less than  Direct               First two                0.1
$50,000 per contract7    contracting
3. Services
Consulting firms with    QCBS                      All                 4.0
contracts more than
$75,000
Individual contracts greater  CQ                   All
than $20,000
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    12.8 (45 %)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
2 Up to an aggregate of US $ 2.5 million.
3 Up to an aggregate of US$ 2.0 million.
4 Up to an aggregate of US$ 1.0 million.
5 Up to an aggregate of US$ 0.2 million.
6 Up to an aggregate of US$ 0.5 million.
' Up to an aggregate of US$ 1.0 million.



27
Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$   Amount in SDR    Financing Percentage
million         million
Civil Works                                       16.0            11.1             85%
Civil Works under force account                    1.0             0.8             75%
Goods                                              2.5              1.8           100% foreign exp.
80% local exp.
Consulting Services                                4.0              3.0           100%
Project Preparation Advance                        0.5              0.4           100%
Unallocated                                        2.0              1.4           100%
Total             25.0          18.3            90
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
SOEs will be submitted for (a) all civil works contracts less than US$ 2.0 million each, (b) all goods contracts less
than $150,000, (c) all individual consultant contracts less than $20,000 and (d) all consulting firm contracts less than US$
50,000.
Special account:
The Government will establish a Special Account (SA) in the Central Bank. Up to $ 4.0 million can be advanced
from the Credit into the SA to facilitate disbursements for the purpose of the project. The initial deposit will be limited to
$2.0 million until the aggregate disbursed amount has reached US$ 4.0 million. The SA will be replenished by submitting
withdrawal applications to IDA on a monthly basis.



- Annex 5
BOLIVIA: El Niuo Emergency Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                          Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)      (estimated)
$200,000              $150,000
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          4 months
First Bank mission (identification)                 12/05/97               12/05/97
Appraisal mission departure                         01/26/98               01/26/98
Negotiations                                        03/02/98               03/09/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       05/01/98
Prepared by: Technical Unit for Operational Support and Strengthening, Ministry of Defense
Preparation assistance:           Project Preparation Facility of $500,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Eugene D. McCarthy                              Team Leader
Jyoti Shukla                               Co-task manager
Matthew McMahon                             Agriculture S_ialist
Judy Baker                                Poverty Specialist
Alberto Nogales                           Infrastructure Specialist
Franz Kriegler                       Financial Management Specialist
Emilio Rodriguez                  Infrastructure and Procurement Consultant
William McKenney                   Infrastructure and Management Consultant
Gary Hunnisett                           Environment Specialist
Roberto Laver                               Country Lawyer
Efraim Jimenez                             Procurement Officer
Thao Nguyen                               Disbursement Officer
Shobha Sahgal                                Team Assistant
Mercedes Aleman                               Team Assistant



29
Annex 6
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
ASSESSMENT OF THE DROUGHT SITUATION
January 1998
BACKGROUND
1.     The El NiMfo phenomenon manifests itself climatically in Bolivia as heavy flooding in the Eastern Lowlands and
as drought in the Andean Valleys. There was particular devastation during the last El Niffo year, 1982-83, and according to
data from NOAA damages to the economy of the Altiplano of Peru and Bolivia combined were estimated to US$250
million.
2.     The area of the valleys and the Altiplano are dominated by typical Andean smallholder agriculture which produces
basic food crops, such as potatoes, maize, wheat, barley and faba beans for local consumption. Production is characterized
by very low yields as characterized in Table 1.
3.     The area has also a large number of livestock, ranging from alpacas, goats, sheep and cattle, all of which make up
an important part of the regional economy. Most of these animals are grazed on common pasturage of very low quality.
Forage quality is affected by drought and there is usually a large reduction in animal numbers in the aftermath of a drought.
Table 1. Selected Production data (1993-94) for the Province of Cochabamba, an area typical of the drought affected
areas. (Source INE)
Crop                  Area Sown                     Yield                 Production
Has                      (kglha)                   MT
Maize                    40,000                      1246                    49840
Potatoes                  25,000                     5500                    137,000
Wheat                    22,800                      625                     14250
Faba Beans                  4284                       1780                     7620
Barley                   10810                       720                      7770



30
Rainfall and Crop Production in the Drought affected areas
4.      The rainy season begins in the Altiplano and Valleys in October. Rainfall peaks in January and terminates in
April. The long-term distribution as well as the rainfall for 1997-98 (up to January) is shown in Figure 1 for Cochabamba.
Fig 1. Rainfall Distribution, Long Term and1997-98
Cochabamba
120              Z                                     ........
1 2v ,2223BB,222 >2~.2         .....>222   ..222   2__L.   B2         22   22....................................   ...  ...... 2.2 2
........... ..2 . 2 ......    . 2 2.,222.'222    ,,,,.B r   ,B         22        2  . 2 . 2 2. . ..2..   2 . 22.......
1 0 0  ..........I                                 ..    .   . . .......... .
80
-mean
60
2 ns,,,S.g. ?s . iia >  stl",'f,r ,f r..........................................  ,2 22  2 .?
20  .     ........Cu                      .   c
5.   F~~~~<arme"2-rs2 beg 22 in    g22H to sowE.E their?2 mai crop in the are  in eal Novmbe strtn w?t poate and maz2n
period~~~3> in >? the 33 detemnto  ofthei yild ocur in?  Marc  and3.E  theyE are\3E  harveste  insG?  Ma an  June.
6.  Threor the333    criica ranfl peio  fo agicltra prdcto  in2BB      th  are  is0 fro  Noeme to Marc  and=BB  withN<
3>33323  3  >>  >3  >7  *-?  222fff::ifi:::ffi?2HE232i  32E3E    ?E  i 3i?.i.R.i.  ?E?....??.. .? ...   2    ?22B3...2 
n~~~~~ zC  *n  -°  LL <xX ,    >
Months
S.      Farmners begin to sow their main crops in the area in early November starting with potatoes and maize and
continuing through the month of December with the sowing of cereals such as wheat and barley. Potatoes are sown with
the first rains and await the heavy rains of December and January to develop their tubers. This crop is then harvested from
March through. Crops such as maize, wheat and barley are sown later as they need moisture (up to 100mm under these
conditions) to accumulate in the soil to assure the establishment of the crop. The flowering of these crops, which is a critical
period in the determination of their yield, occurs in March and they are harvested in May and June.
6.      Therefore the critical rainfall period for agricultural production in the area is from November to March and with
te peak effects of El Nifio occurring from December through February. Using data from SENAMHI ( Servicio Nacional
dle Meterologia e Hidrologia) it is possible to compare the actual situation (up to January 26, 1998) with the long term
rainfall data and to assess the probability of monthly rainfall based on the long term statistics. Tables 2, 3, and 4 present
these data for three stations in the affected area, namely Cochabamba, La Paz and Tarija respectively.
Table 2: Growing season rainfall data for Cochabamba
Nov          Dec         January    February         March          Total
Average Rainfall          43.7          92.2         122.3          95.0         85.3          438.5
Rainfall 1997-981         56.2          25.2          33.0
Prob 40%               32.9         76.1          108.7         76.1          47.8         341.6
Prob 60%               44.8          97.2         134.8         98.8          66.8         442.4
Prob 80%               61.9         126.1         165.1         130.2         94.6         577.9
Until January 26, 1998



31
Table 3 Growing season data for La Paz
Nov        Dec       January   February    March         Total
Average Rainfall      46.1        80.8       112.4       88.0        66.7       394.0
Rainfall 1997-98      49.3       43.3        70.0
Prob 40%           32.1        74.3       97.6        78.6        52.2       334.8
Prob 60%           45.3        89.2       118.3       96.6        70.4       419.8
Prob 80%           67.6       106.4       145.7       117.6       96.4       533.7
Table 4: Growing season data for Tarija
Nov        Dce       January    February    March        Total
Average Rainfall      58.1       129.6       162.1       104.4       82.7       536.9
Rainfall 1997-98      68.6       55.5        88.7
Prob 40%           45.4       123.7       143.4       73.0        56.6       442.1
Prob 60%           69.0       139.0       166.2       96.8        85.7       556.7
Prob 80%           96.5       159.2       192.8      134.3       130.3       713.1
7.     The data show that early rainfall for the month of November 1997 was above nonnal for all three stations, and was
at or above the 60% probability level of such an occurrence not happening. However, the rainfall pattemn changed for the
worse in the months of December and January and rainfall levels were at 50% or below normal. In all cases they were well
below the 40% probability level of such an occurrence not happening. The tables also show that the probability of adequate
rainfall after January declines sharply across the area. Therefore badly damaged crops at the end of January will have a low
probability of recuperation.
8.     Data for the current season 1997-98 is shown in Table 5 for six stations throughout the drought area. The data
show that there has been a general deficit of rainfall throughout the area during the critical peak period of December and
January 1997-98. There is a wide range in the deficit across the area ranging from 88.7 percent in Sucre to 40.3 percent in
La Paz. Of the six stations sampled four have deficits of more than 50 percent while the other two Tarija and La Paz have
deficits of greater than 40 percent.



32
Table 5. Long term and 1997-98 rainfall data for six stations throughout the drought area
Station    Dec 97    Normal   Percent   Jan 981   Normal   Percent   Cum           Dec-Jan   Percent
Norm
Cochaba  25.2       92.2       27        33.1       122.1     27        214.3      58.3      27.2
mba
Sucre     12.1      114.8      11        19         161       12        275.8      31.1      11.3
Potosi    14.1      59.1       24        35.1       102.5     34         161.6     49.2      30.5
Oruro     19.9      53         37        45.1       86.8      52         139.8     65.0      46.5
Tarija    56.7      128.3      44        88.7       144       62        272.3      145.4     53.4
La Paz    43.3      80.8       48        70         108.9     64         189.7     113.3     59.7
9.     The adverse effects of this rainfall pattern on crop growth was corroborated by field visits to various departments
both during the December 1997, and January 1998 missions. Most of the potato crop was sown but has suffered badly from
drought since late November. Tuber set and size has been greatly reduced. Maize, wheat and barley which are normally
sown later suffer even worse consequences. Many areas, such as in Tarija and Cochabainba, have not been sown to these
crops because of insufficient moisture to establish them. An estimation by IBTA (Instituto Boliviano de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria) for the rainfed areas of Cochabamba gives an idea of the crop losses that may be expected. (Table 5)
Table 6: Estimated areas sown for different crops in the dryland areas of Cochabamba 1997-98 ( Source IBTA)
Crop         Ave. Area (has)     Ave area per      No of families    % area sown
family (ha)                           1997-98
Wheat             23,000             0.75              17,250              10
Barley            10,700             0.60              6,420               10
Maize             35,000             0.50             17,500              60
Potatoes           25,600             1.00             25,600               95
'Until January 26, 1998



-33-
Annex 7
Monitoring: Performance Indicators and Implementation Plan
Indicator            Implementing      Unit   June I   Dec.           June       Dec.   June   Dec.   June   Dec.
I    Agency                  98        98          99         99       00     00      01     01
1. Prevention Phase: Floods (Beni, Santa Cruz, La Paz, Cochabamba, Pando) Jan-June 1998
River Defense Work               Prefecturas
Gaviones                       Prefecturas  M             500        5,000        -         -       -        
Canal de Desvio                Prefecturas     HM3        200        1,500       300
Reposicion Diques Galones      Prefecturas      M3        200        1,000       300
Diques de Protecci6n           Prefecturas      KM         5          20          7
Limpieza de Drenes             Prefecturas      Ml         500       2,000      1,500
Limpieza cunetas/alcantar.       Prefecturas      M'      1005000    300,000    100,000
2. Prevention Phase:
Construcci6n de Pozos
1. Superficiales              Prefecturas                 40         60          -
2. Semiprofundos              Prefecturas                40          80
3. Profundos                  Prefectutas                 10         22
Sistemas de Riego                Prefecturas
1. Mejoramiento              Prefecturas                 15          30
2. Construcci6n               Prefecturas                 4          5
Atajados                         Prefecturas
1. Rehabilitaci6n             Prefecturas                 3          12
2. Construcci6n               Prefecturas                60          150
Bombas Sumergibles               Prefecturas                 20         30
Motobombas (5HP)                                   100         100         -             .  -
3. Regeneration Agric. Production: (Oruro, Potosi, Chuquisaca, Cobabamba, La Paz) June 98 - March 99
Semillas (distribuci6n)        UTOAF
Papa                       Consejo Nac.                             900                         
Trigo                      Semillas,                      -         500         -        -   |
Cebada                     Prefecturas,      Tons                   500         - -
Maiz                       Municipios,                             100
Quinoa                     Ngos                                     10                       |
4. Rehabilitation/Reconstruction Phase: (Beni, Santa Cruz, Cochabamba, La Paz, Pando) June 98-June 00
Road Infiastructure            Prefecturas                                                                              I
Primary /Secondary                           Km                                5        10       5      - 
Rural||  Km                                              -                | 10           10    1 10    110|
Bridges                                                                           2         2       3      2
River Defenses                                  Mm2            1          0       10       20      10       -
Levee Strengtbening          _              1Mm3 |,|   20                         30       30      20
5. Institutional Strengthening
1. Short Term Consultants         Contract                  3/31         -          -        -       -          J   -       -
2. Accounting                | Contract |                   6/30                    -               
3. Project Management Finn        Contract   |                                 [   4/1       -       -    6/30      -   |
4. Medium-term disaster            Study     I                                           |           -    6/30      -
Preparedness Plan           _              1 _         _          _          .          _                     1
6. Implementation Plan
Convenios Subsidiarios           Contracts       5/31
Special Account                    Set up        6/15
POM                               Manual         6/02   |
Project Reports                  Quarterly       3/31       6/30         -        9/30     12/31
Project Audit/Techn.Audit     ________|- 9/30                                                      3/31      -    9/30
7. Credit Disbursment          US$ Millions       -          1.0        4.0        4.0      4.0     4.0    3.0    3.0    2.0



34
Annex 8
Environment Assessment and Procedures to be Followed in Project Implementation
1.     FOCUS OF ASSESSMENT
1.1    This annex is focused on environmental effects of reinediation and reconstruction measures. There has been some attempt
to identify potentially envirownentally significant effects of El Niffo which may benefit from intervention. Such
interventions would be considered only when critical, prioritized by the implementing agencies, and agreed to by UTOAF.
2.     CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
2.1    A preliminary analysis of the sub-projects to be financed through the prevention component of the emergency Credit
indicates that about 85% of the sub-projects will be very small scale (average $US 65,000), and will involve minimal
disruption to the environment. Most will be excluded by both Bank and GOB criteria for EIS permitting process.
2.2    No resettlement projects are anticipated under the Credit. In the unlikely event that they become necessary, IDA
Guidelines will be followed. If resettlement becomes necessary, a social scientist will be added to the PCU.
2.3    Based on the first one hundred sub-project applications for IDA financing, and assuming that future requests will be
similar, or in the case of the reconstruction phase have no effect, an estimate and categorization of the works to be
conducted under the project would be similar to the sumiumary which follows (Table I)
TABLE I: TYPES AND COSTS OF PROJECTS REQUESTED TO DATE
EL NINO PROGRAM - BOLIVIA4
Activity           n        Range in    Average in   US$>US$    Env. Class         Env.
USsooo       USsooo        IOOK         Bolivia       Class.
1.  Protective dikes, instream
deflection barriers, bank  40       5-168.7        62.3          09            III          B*
protection barriers.
2.  Meander corrections and     16       24-200         41.2          01            III          B*
altering/dredging
channels
3.   Cleaning and repair of     9       1.8-140.4       33.3          01            IV           C
drainage ditches                                                                                  l
4.   Sinking Wells              8        6.0-64.0       41.9          00            IV           C
5.  Dams: maintenance,          7        20-184         86.9          02            IV           C
repair, protection,
improvement
6.   Water Storage Systems      5       8.5-109.6       43.1          01            IV           C
7.  Reconstructing roads and    3        32-463.4       180.9         01            IV           C
temporary access roads
8.  Repairing ,maintenance      5        5.8-93.7       51.8          00            IV           C
of irrigation systems                                                                             l
9.  Repairingwells              3       14.6-71.6       55.1          00            IV           C
10.  Improving drainage,                                                            IV            C
garbage, wastewater,       4         33-90         59.5          00
drinking water
IV           C
Totals                    100         ---          65.6         15%
* without considering provisions for "Emergency and for "Small Scale" Special status



35
3.     COMMENT ON PROJECTS ANTICIPATED IN THE PREVENTION PHASE
3.1    Of the 10% of activities over $US 100k and classified in Bolivian and IDA systems as requiring 'best practices"
implementation to minimize effects, both involve controlling floodwaters.
3.2    The activities are designed to keep flooding rivers moving faster around key populated areas or to deflect them away from
them. Neither case solves the flooding problem, and may exacerbate conditions downstream.
3.3    If the structures are improperly designed and implemented, they can produce unnecessary siltation, bank washouts, and
even worse flooding. There are many instances in Bolivia, where well meaning local communities have made elaborate
instream devices which have been left stranded and caused more damage than had they never been constructed.
3.4    Careful design and implementation of these potentially destructive installations should be a cornerstone for the
environmental alleviation process in the preventative phase.
3.5    Major road repairs constitute a second activity with potentially significant environmental effects which will require
monitoring. The effects include siltation, blocked drainage patterns, excessive removal of topsoil with consequent erosion,
inappropriate location of borrow pits, inadequate disposal of waste fuel oil; garbage, site destruction, and inadequate
sanitary facilities around work camps.
4.     COMMENTS ON THE ACTIVTIES IN THE RECOVERY PHASE;
It is recommended that should a work creation program be included as part of the project, in the recovery phase it should
include environmental sub projects that focus on activities that restore watersheds, and reduce erosion rather than the
creation of more emergency devices. Such an approach will produce more sustainable results.
5.     LEGAL ISSUES
5.1    World Bank Guidelines
The following points of WB-OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) are relevant to this proposed project:
5.1.1   Article 10: Emergency Recovery Projects: The sub projects would not require a full EA, unless
exacerbated or caused by inappropriate enviromnental practices in the first place. This could be caused for
example if a poorly designed and constructed tailing pond broke under the pressure of unseasonable El Nifio
rains.
5.1.2   Nonetheless to avoid complications from the complete EIA and environmental disaster which would
result from another Porco type incident it is recomiuended that as a preventive measure the adequacy of tailings
ponds be inspected by competent authorities in the Ministry of Mines.
5.1.3   Annex E: Environmental Screening: Section" Determination of EA Category":
(i)  None of the potential projects are likely to have " significant adverse impacts unlikely to be
sensitive, irreversible and diverse" (Category A)
(ii) Some of the larger projects foreseen may have specific impacts that with planning could be
minimized or reversed (Category B). A mitigation plan to ensure the sub projects conform to best
practice standards would suffice for these, and no EIS is required.
(iii) Category C projects would have little or no effect, require no EIA and would probably be the most
numerous of the sub-component projects. It is anticipated that all the projects in the reconstruction and
relief phases would fall under this category.
(iv) Category D: The enviromnent is the major focus of project preparation. Only in addressing issues
indicated in the risk assessment analysis or the publics works recovery program is this categorization
likely.
5.1.4   Annex A (Section 9); An alternative approach to the EIS process based on use of best practice



36
techniques is possible for "small scale rural works".
5.1.5   The overall classification of the El Nino Project is "B"
5.2    Bolivian Legislation
The "Reglamentaci6n de la Ley del Medio Ambiente" is more restrictive. It calls for a 'ficha ambiental" to be
prepared for ALL activities. The purpose of tlieficha is to provide information to decision makers required to categorize
the activity on the basis of enviromnental effects.
5.2.1   This would include sub-projects carried out wuder the proposed project.
5.2.2   While the "ficha" is computerized and relatively simple, few municipalities would have the capacity to
fill it out without consultant aid, and time delays would result until the "competent enviromental authority"
could pass a decision on its categorization (I-IV).
5.2.3   A summary of the categorization system used in Bolivia, with typical representative projects is as
follows:
(i) Ecosystem effects requiring detailed and complete EIA.
(ii) Specific, limited effects, with EIA directed only at these effects. Requiring planning to ameliorate
or minimize effects and ensure best practices.
(iii) No effects or positive effects. This includes the major part of the projects likely to be undertaken.
i.e. construction and rehabilitation in urban areas; small wells and irrigation projects.
(iv) Beneficial effects. Projects designed to improve the enviroment.
5.2.4   The large portion of the small projects it is assumed will be effected will be exempted under categories
III and IV. These include: construction and rehabilitation in urban areas; water wells, services.
5.2.5   There is no official written provision for exclusion of the EIS process for emergency services under
Bolivian Law. Recommendations for avoiding these delays will be presented later.
6.   PROCEDURES TO BE INCORPORATED TO ENSURE ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING AND
EVALUATION
6.1    Discussions were held with the Director General of Enviromnent, Policies and Norms, and the following agreements in
principle were arrived at:
*      Re: Exclusion policy: UTOAF should provide a list of anticipated reconstruction activities to the
MDS siniilar to the one presented in this paper.
*      UTOAF should request from the National Director of Environment, Policies and Norms: (i) a blanket
treatment of the categories to be detailed by UTOAF, as opposed to the normal consideration by individual
projects. There is a precedent for this, in that the Social Investment Funds (FIS) obtained such special
consideration.(ii) secondment of a qualified EIS specialist who would have the authority to approve EIS
categories, assist in monitoring and selection of sub projects, and the authority to suspend projects where EIA
best practice was not been followed.
*      In general, projects of less than $US 100,000 would be exempt under the "emergency" status of the
project, and UTOAF should request this formally.
+      Re: Subprojects requiring Intervention: For the few projects which would fall under IDA or GOB
requirements for EIS and follow up, the procedures of Bolivia should be used. i.e. those projects costing more
than $US 100,000 and not specifically excluded by the letter from the MSD.
*      Re: Technical Assistance: Tecluical assistance for the preparation of a mnanual of best practices for
various categories of activity should be included in the project design.
*      The MDS would be able to provide technical assistance to prefectural units on an as-needed basis.



37
6.2    Insttutional capacity within UTOAF and the implementing agencies
6.2.1   Based on conversations with senior members of the MDS, field visits in the past, and conversations
with UTOAF staff, the institutional capacity at UTOAF and prefect levels is assessed to be generally weak, and
the funding available for monitoring inadequate.
6.2.2   While it is true that the Prefecturas of Santa Cniz and Oruro, and possibly others have the technical
expertise to ensure 'best practice" is followed, it is not clear that other departments do. Pando and Beni were
singled out in particular.
Table II: Summary of Trained Manpower Available in the Departments:
Department       Number and Qualifications            Basic Training in EIS *
La Paz          I engineer                                    no training
Oruro          2 engineering, geology                        no training
Santa Cruz     approx. 10 professionals                     50% with EIS
Potosi         4 professionals: mining, geology             50% with EIS
Pando           1 agriculture engineer                        no training
Cochabamba    5 professionals: agronomy, forestiy           40% with EIS
Tarija         4 professionals: civil engineering,            no training
forestry, agronomy,
Chuquisaca     3 professionals                               no training
Beni            1 professional                                no training
* 1-3 week course given under ETAP project
6.2.3 Sectors having environmental units: Only the Mining and Energy sectors have specialized sectoral units in
environment. These two can supplement the expertise available to the prefecturas. They also have legal status as competent
environmental authorities.
6.3    Technical assistance required for Environmental Compliance:
Professional Profile I
6.3.1   local or foreign consulting expertise is required to identify best practice methods for installation of in stream
devices, dam, and dike reinforcement or repair. Terms of reference would include:
a) production and/or reproduction, and distribution of a procedures manual with extensive use of
diagrams, which could be easily understood by locals.
b) monitoring or confinnation of monitoring by prefects of insteam or road construction, costing
more than $US 100,000
c)   approval of plans for locating and constructing instreami devices over $US 100k prior to
construction and preparation of plans by the implementing unit prior to construction.
d) in conjunction with MDS-EIS specialist to evaluate the technical, financial and manpower capacity
of prefects to develop and follow best practices mnetliods in large projects in the various municipalities.
e) assistance to UTOAF on evaluating cost proposals and best practice criteria to large scale project
proposals involving darns and ins stream devices.
f) insuring that the procedures recommended in points 1-5 on following page.
Professional Profile II
6.3.2   Local EIS Specialist on secondment from the MDS
The TORs for the EIS Specialist would be to:
a) classify the activities of the sub projects over $US 100k.
b) assist UTOAF in the selection and design of Class II projects.
c) serve as liaison person between the MDS and the municipalities or prefects on issues such as
training, technical advice required to ensure enviromnental considerations in best practice construction
activities.
d) represent the MDS on meetings with other ministries to identify and prepare contingency plans for



38
perceived environmental risks.
e) identify and assign specialists within the MDS most able to evaluate critical issues if/when they
arise.
1) monitor construction activities and ensure compliance.
g) UTOAF should arrange for inter sectoral meetings with appropriate environmental units or authority
on the potential effects to be outlined under Risk Assessment. They should: (i) assess the identified
risks; (ii) with the sector involved, to ensure a program of monitoring and verification; (iii) prepare a
contingency plan based on their findings; (iv) be prepared to present a request for funding of the plan
should it become necessary; and, (v) be declared a priority by the prefect.
h) MDS specialists in EIS should visit the prefects to evaluate their staffing and funding capability to
identify and follow potential environmental effects. In addition, he/she should focus on the technical
ability to approve and monitor the most likely projects; i.e. construction and site location of instream
devices. They should present their report to UTOAF.
6.4    It was agreed with the Government that the current staffing of UTTOAF and the implementing agencies was inadequate to
undertake these responsibilities. As institutional strengthening measures, the following were agreed:
6.4.1   That UTOAF would hire one persoi, on a full time, or part time basis as required, to assist with the
environmental screening and evaluation of sub-project request. This person would be hired in
consultation with UTOAF and would be of sufficient seniority and knowledge, and would have
delegated authority from the MDS to provide the necessary advice/clearances needed.
6.4.2   The terms of reference for the project management finn, as well as the criteria for the technical
evaluation of sub-project requests, would include evaluation on enviromnental best practice within the
realms of economic feasibility. UTOAF would also provide such advice to the implementing agencies
as needed.
6.4.3   That at this time, the need for additional environmental consultants was not anticipated as the Ministry
of Sustainable Development currently has access to six international consultants funded through the
Inter-American Development Bank, who can usefully be deployed for environmental advice and
assistance to UTOAF or the implementing agencies as needed.
7.     ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT ANALYSIS
7.1    Technical authorities in the Ministry of Mines should evaluate the ability of dikes to withstand extremes of desiccation or
flooding as appropriate. In addition, they should anticipate the effects of water shortages in areas where dilution of toxic
substances is the method of water treatment.
7.2    Wildlife authorities in the MDS should alert regional and municipal authorities of potential dangers to wildlife
populations of concentration (at waterholes, or islands in the case of flooding) and subsequent exploitative overhunting.
The MDS using the present warden system should also initiate a monitoring program for the following:
a) Vicunias: Bolivia has successfully increased the population levels to over 28,000 animals and is about to begin
a program of commercial utilization. Campesinos may well prioritize water and pasture use for domesticated
animals. As the populations and feeding of vicufia are well knowvn, monitoring by protected area wardens should
begin immediately, and contingency plans for feeding be considered.
b) Flamingos: Well known flamingo populations are centered in and around Lake Titicaca, Sahama Park, the
Desaguadero watershed, Lake Poopo, and Eduardo Avaroa Park. As Lake Poopo and other refuges dry up, they
can be expected to become concentrated. Wardens should monitor the situation, and if necessary, recommend
feeding programs.
7.3    Forestry officials should be asked to provide a contingency plan for excessive forest fires in tropical dry forests or in areas
of chaqueo to reduce local smoke hazards in times of chaqueos. A program of public education should be considered, and
a program of control over sugar mnill waste fires put into effect.
7.4    The Mnistry of Agriculture should assess the damage which could result to major wet areas ("bofedales") from
overgrazing by domestic and native animals, and consider whetlher a program of emergency feeding could alleviate the
presssure on the wet areas and assist in a rapid recuperation.



39
Annex 9
BOLIVIA: El Nino Assistance Emergency Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Operational Manual for UTOAF, to be submitted as Condition for Disbursement of the
Reconstruction/Regeneration component.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Assessment of Poverty in Drought Prone Areas and Initiatives by Other Donors.
*  Assessment of the Financial Management Capacity of UTOAF.
C. Other
*  Project Information Document.
*  Minutes of the PID Review Meeting.
* Minutes of the PAD Review Meeting.
*  Comision Sobre El Fenomeno "El Niffo", Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible, Government of Bolivia, October
1997.
*  El Fenomeno de "El Nino " en Bolivia, Ministerio de Defensa Nacional, Government of Bolivia, October
1997.
*  Ayuda Memoria, Escenarios de Evaluacion del Inmpacto de El Niuo en la A ctividadAgricola de 1998, Unidad
de Analisis de Politicas Economicas, Government of Bolivia, March 1998



Prevention Works Eligible for Financing
RESUMEN DE OBRAS
DESCRIPCION           LA PAZ               COCHABAMBA SANTA CRUZ   TARIJA   CHUCUISACA   POTOSt I PANDO                     BENI       TOTAL
Rehabilitacion de atajados y
I reacondicionamiento de Pozos                                                 _               110.000.00                  .                    110.000 00
Construcci'n Pozos
2 Semiprofundos                32.500.00                                                                                                         32.500.00
Construcci6n de Defensivos
3 (Gaviones)                  373.107.00                             274.160.00  _             272.780.00                           87.000.00  1.007.047.00
4 Sistemas de Microriego       93.702.00     _                    _                  __                   ______93.702.00
5 Cons3rucc6n Pozos Profundos    94.500.00   90.000.00   62,800.00                                         130.000.00                           377.300.00
6 Rehabilitaci6n Cotafias      15.686.00  _       _                                                                             .                15.68600
7 Protecci6n Accesos a Puente    101 .146.00                                                                                                    101.146.00
8 Reparacion Puentes           46.067.00                                                       410,254.00           .               8.000.00   464.321.00
Construcci6n VigiAas y
9 Abrevaderos                _           184.989.00                                                                                      .      184.989.00
10 Rehabilitaci&n de Caminos   225,115.00   43.010.48    463.392.00                                                                             731.517.48          o
11 Construcci6n Ataiados                                 271.700.00 .                                                                            271.700,00
Construcci6n Pozos
12 Su6erficiales                       _  154.050.00     110Q630.00                24.000.00                 36.000.00                           324.680.00
13 Canal de Desvio         _6i.250.0                                                                                                             161,250.00
14 Reposicibn Diques Gaviones                                          133.280.00                                                                133.280.00
15 Diques de Proteccion                                               393.750.00                                    .                           393.750.00
16 Limpieza de Drenes                                                  32.850.00                                             .      42,220 00     75.070.00
Limpieza y Rehabilitaci6n de
17 Pozos Profundos                                                                 74.513.00                                                      74.513.00
Conservici6n y Habilitaci6n de
18 Tanques Australianos    _                                                       10.800.00                                                      10.800.00
19 A4quiler Carros Cistemas                                             .          50.000.00                                                      50.00000
Conservaci6n y Habilitaci6n de
20 Atajados                                                                        90_______                                                      90_000.00
21 Construcci6n Tanques Elevados                                                  154.751.00                                                     154,751.00
22 Mejoramiento Sistemas do Rie o                                                                69.848.00   91.387.50 1                         161.235.50
23 Armado Gaviones y Cochonetas          _ .                                                        __      111.120.00                           111.120.00
24 Electrobombas                                                .              r                             36.000.00                            36.000 00
CD
X-
o



Reforzamiento Cordon
25 Perimetral                                                                                                         1 t25.955 00             125.955.00
2E Control de Agus Fiuviales               .                                            _                              64.00000                 64.000.00
27 Rellenos Sanitarios                                                                                            .    33.00000                 33000.00
Limpieza de Cunetas y
28 Alcantarillas                                                                                                  _   140,400.00   53.000.00    193.400.00
Reparaci6n y Reposicion de
29 Alcantarillas                                                          . .                                          45.00000   16.080.00    61 080.00
Contruccion Vias de Acceso
30 Temporal                                    .                                                                       32,000.00                32 000 00
Contrucci6n de Puentes
31 Alcantarilla                                                                                                                   109.160.00    109 160.00
Rsposicion de Puentes
32 Alcantarillas de HO All                                                                                                         16,320.00    16.320.00
33 Construcrci6n de Desvios     _               =  ___      _                                     .                                50.000.00    50 000.00
Construcci6n de Defensiva de HO
34C                                                 _                                                     _                        87.000.00    87.000.00
35 Construcci6n de Puentes   _                                                                                                     53.640.00    53.640 00
36 Limpieza de Canales de Drenaje ___ _                                       _                              .                     33.300.00    33.300.00
Reforzamiento de Lagunas o
37 Atajados                                   .                                                79.200.00                                        79.200.00
38 Badoz Antiparcitarios                                                                                  120.000.00                           120000 00
39 Tuberi PVC 4"                                                        _                                 100.560.00                l_5100560.00
=  TOTAL DEPTOS.                9581.823.00  472.049.481    908.522.00    995.290.00  404064.00    942,082.00  625.067.50  40 355 00  555.72000  6,324.972.98



UTOAF
PRESUPUESTO DEPTO. TARIJA                               T/C REFERENCIAL BS. 5 38
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZO/98
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION                     CANTIDAD   UNIDAD    PRECIO         COSTO                     REFERENCIA    IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO     TOTAL      1ER.PAGO        UBICACION                  EJECUCION EJECUCION
BOMqAS SUMERGIBLES 3 HP                  2      PIEZA        1800     3,600.00       100%
BOMjAS SUMERGtBLES 5 HP                   |    PIEZA        2500    20,000.00        100%
BOMEAS SUMERGIBLES 15 HP                 2      PIEZA       3230      6,460.00       100%
BOMBAS SUMERGIBLES 10 HP                 1     PIEZA        2950      2,950.00       100%
BOMBAS SUMERGIBLES 7 HP                  3      PIEZA       2700      8,100.00       100%
BOMBAS MANUALES                         30      PIEZA         150     4,500.00       100%
GENERADORES ELECTRICOS C/TABLEROS
DE CONTROL Y ACCESORIOS                  2      PIEZA       8000    16,000.00        100%
COMPRA MOTOBOMBAS DE SHP DIAMETRO
Y (con accesotios)                      20      PIEZA        600    12,000.00        100%W
BOMBAS SUMERGIBLES 7.5 HP                1      PIEZA       2800      2 800.00       100% 
TOTALES                                                              76,410.00   76,410.00
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION                     CANTIDAD UNIDAD    PRECIO ,  COSTO                1 ER.   REFERENCIA         IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
.________________________ _______ ________ UNITARIO  TOTAL             PAGO 20%   UBICACION            (HABITANT.) EJECUCION EJECUCION
LIMPIEZA Y REHAB. POZOS PROF.           17 POZOS             859    14,603.00    2,920.60
CONSTRUCCION P0205 MANUALES             30 POZOS             250      7,500.00    1,500.00
CONSERV.Y HAB.TANOUES AUSTR. -           4 TANQUES          2700    10,800.00    2.160.00
ALOUILER CARROS CISTERNAS               10 CAMIONES         5000    50,000.00   10,000.00
CONSERVACION Y HABIL. ATAJADOS           9 ATAJADOS        10000    90,000.00   18,000.00                    1           1           1
CONSTRUC. TANQUES ELEVADOS               3 TANQUES         36565   109,695.00   21,939.00
CONSTRUCCION TANOUE ELEVADO (Mercado
campcsino)                               1 TANQUE           8491      8,491.00    1,698.20
CONSTRUCCION TANOUE ELEVADO
(Circunvalaci6n)                         1 TANQUE          36565    36,565.00    7,313.00
TOTALES                                                             327,654.00   65,530.80



FTOTL ~GENERAL~                                                     4D4,06.D001
EXPRESAOO EN BOUVIANOS A TIC 5.33                                 2,173,864.32
ITOTAL 1ER. DESEMBOLSO EN BOLMANOS                                              763,641.50|
(X)2 PROVINCIAS                            (XX) 4 COMUNID.                                (XXX} 9 COMUNID.     ESMERALDA
-MENDEZ                                   - EL TRIGRE                                                         LA VICTORIA
- GRAN CHACO                              - EL TORO                                                           CUTAIQUI
IBIBOBO                                                           1818080
- LOS GALPONES



UTOAF                                            PRESUPUESTO DEPTO. ORURO                             TIC REFERENCIAL BS.5.38
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZ0198
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION                   CANTIDAD  UNIDAD PRECIO          COSTO          %       REFERENCIA    IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
________________________ _______             UNITARIO      TOTAL    IER. PAGO   UBICACION                    EJECUCION EJECUCION
MALETINESVETERINARIOS                  2    UNID.   202.50        405.00        100%                 I
MOTOBOMBAS 5 HP.4                    100    UNID.   700.00    70,000.00         100%                                               7 DS.
BOMBAS MANUALES                       50    UNID.   300.00      15,000.00       100%                           .                   7 DS.
MOCHILAS DOSIFICADORAS                 8    UNID.    50.00        400.00        100%
8OMBAS SUMERGIBLES 7.5 HP.            10    UNID.  3,000.00    30,000.00        100%
TOTAL.ES                       _________I115,805.00   115,805.00
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION                   CANTIDAD UNIDAD  PRECIO    COSTO               1 ER.    REFERENCIA   IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO  TOTAL.       PAGO 20%    U11CACi1N        (HABITANT.) EJECUCION EJECUCION
PERFORACION POZOS PROFUNDOS           10  POZOS        6000    60,000.00    12,000.00
CONST.VIGIfkASABREVADEROS(Ganado)    483    UNID        383   154,989.00    36,997.80                         600                 90 DS.
RE6ABIUTACION CAMINOS             207.99      KM.      227.2   47,255.33     9,451.07
CONST. POZOS SEMI-PROFUNOOS          500    UNIt        128    64,000.00    12,800.00 5 PROVINCIAS(X)        7000                  90 DS.
TOTALES                                 I _   _     _- 356,244.33    71,248.87
ETOTALGENERAL                                                  472,049.33 |
EXPRESADO EN SOLMANOS A TIC 5.38                             2,539,625.38
TOTAL IER. DESEMBOLSO EN SOLMANOS 1,006,349.80
(X) 5 PROVINCIAS              NOR CARANGAS
SUD CARANGAS
SAJAMA
SAUCARi
SAN PEDRO 0E TOTORA



UTOAF                                PRESUPUESTO DEPTO.POTOSI                                 T/C REFERENCIAL BS.5.38
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZO98
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION                CANTIDAI  UNIDAD  PRECIO    COSTO              %      REFERENCIA IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
-           -     UNITARIO   TOTAL    1ER. PAGO    UBICACION           _     EJECUCION EJECUCION
MOTOBOMBAS 5 HP DE x 3"           50   PIEZAS       W00    30,000.00        100%
ELECTRO BOMBAS                     3   PIEZAS    12000    36,000.00         100%                                           1 5S
GA91ONES                        1800   PIEZAS        36    64,800.00        100%                                          15DS.
COLCHONETAS P/GAMONES            300   PIEZAS        76    22,800.00        100%                                          15DS.
BOUEAS SUMERGIBLES 5.5-7.5 HP     20   PIEZAS      3000    60.000.00        100%                                          15DS.
TLWVERIA PVC 4"                12000        Ml.    8.38   100560.00         100%              I                            7D_S.7
TOTALES                                                   314;160 00    314.160 000
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION                CANTIDAD UNIOAD   PRECIO    COSTO             I ER.    REFERENCIA IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
_OZOSSUPERFICIALS             I      _UNITARIO   TOTAL    PAGO 20%    UBICACI6N   (HABITANT.~ EJECUCION EJECUCION
CON8T, POZOS SUPERFICIALES        5n.  POZOS        120     6 000.00     1,2001.00    ___
PERFORACION DE POZOS              20   POZOS       3500    70,000.00    14,000.00
ARMADO GAVIONES Y COLCHONETAS   2352       M3        10    23.520.00     4,704.00 6PROV. (XX)       53630 CONTRATO         90DS
REHABSLITACION SISt. RIEGO        25 SISTEMA   3655.5   91,387.50       18,277.50
l8IOS ANTIPATARIOS                 461  BAROS    2500C  120.000.00      24.000.00 
TOTAE6S                                                1310.907.50      62.181.50
ITOTAL GENERAL                                            625,067.50
EXPRESADO EN BOLVIANOS A TIC 5.36                       3.362,863.15
TOTAL .R. oESEMBOLSO EN 3OLVANOS                                      2024.717.27
(X)6 PROVINCIAS             NOR UPEZ          (X.X)  PROVNCIAS      NOR CHICHAS               (AX.I 5 PROVINCIAS     QUUARRO
SUD UPEZ                                SUD CICHAS                                       NOR CHICHAS
DANIEL CAMPOS                           M. OMISTE                                        SUO CHICHAS
ALONZO DE  NEZ                          UNARES                                           M OMSTE
BILBAO CHARCAS                          FRIAS                                            LINARES
CHAYANTA                                SAAVEDRA



TOTAL GENERAL                                                    981,823.00
EXPRESADO EN BOLMANOS A TIC 5.36                               5,282,207.74
ITOTAL IER. DESEMBOLSO EN BOLMANOS                                           1.076,538.00
(X)8 COMUNIDADES           VILLA PUTUNI          (XX) 7 COMUNIC GUANAY                   (XXX) COMUI CONIRI
COLLOMA                           TIPUANI                                PALUNA CENTRO
COLLANA BELEN                     CHUOUINI                               YAHORI CHAMBI
IQUILLANI                         HUAYTI                                 BERENGUELA
ANCOHAQUE SAJO                    LURIBAY                                COLCHANI
PARINA BELLA                      MECAPACA                               PUTUNI ALTO  COSMINI
HUANA CHICO                      OQWME                                   PAROUIPUJIO  SENKATA ALTA
PUJSANI                                                                  VENTILLA    CALAMARCA



UTOAF                                  PRESUPUESTO DEPTO. CHUQUISACA
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZ0198
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION                 CANTIDAD    UNIDAD  PRECIO           COSTO          o
UNITARIO      TOTAL    1 ER. PAGO
GAVIONES EN CAJA                  4680         M3       20.40     95,472.00        100%
MOTOWOMBAS                           2      BOBAs  12,000.00      24,000.00        100%
GENERADORES                          2 3ENERADORES   8,273.00     16,546.00        100%
COLCHONETAS PIGAVIONES             1872        M3       47.00     87,984.00        100%
rOTALES                    1      65561           1          1  224,002.00   224,00200
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION                 CANTIDAD  UNIDAD      PRECIO    COSTO              1 ER.    REFERENCIA   IMPACTO    MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO  TOTAL         PAGO 20%    UBICACION       (HABITANT.) EJECUCION  EJECUCION
REHABIUT. DE ATAIADOS Y
REACONOICIONAMIENTO DE POZOS                      GLOBAL          69,454.00    13,890.80 LUIS CALVO
READUUT. DE ATAJADOS Y
REACONDICIONAMIENTO DE POZOS         15 ATAJADOS   GLOBAL         79,200.00    15,840.00 CHACO
CONST. Y REP. GAVIONES                                            21,606.00    4,321.20 RIO CHICO
CONST. Y REP. GAVIONES                                            10,229.00     2,045.80 YOTALA
CONST. Y REP. GAVIONES                                            18,532.00     3,706.40 SOPACHUY
CONST. Y REP. GAVIONES                                             5,054.00     1,010.80 ALCALA
CONST. Y REP. GAVIONES                                            19,582.00    3,916.40 VILLAR
CONST. Y REP. GAVIONES                                            14,321.00    2,864.20 PRESTO
MEJORAMIENTO SIST. 0E RIEGO                                       35,998.00     7,199.60 AZURDUY
MEJORAMIENTO SIST. 0E RIEGO                                       28,050.00     5,610.00 RIO CHICO
MEJORAMIENTO SIST. DE RIEGO                                        5,800.00     1,160.00 ALCALA
REPARACION PUENTES (Kalancha y
IVIaZ6. vet pades)                     GLOBAL   I _          I  410,254.00    82.050 80
TOTALES                                        __                718,080 00   143,616.00
ITOTAL GENERAL                                                    942.082001
EXPRESADO EN BOUVIANOS A TIC 5.38                               5,068,401.16
[TOTAL IER. DESEMBOLSO EN BOLIVIANOS                                         1.977.784 84
(X)5 PROVINCIAS             LUIS CALVO                 421831



UTOAF                                              EEPTO DPO. LA PAZ                               TIC REFERENCIAL 88S..36
IERIOOO: ENERO A weMAOl
OXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION               CANTIDAD  UN0AD-         PRECIO      COSTO            %      REFERIEN IM PACTO    MDA            TIEMPO
UNITARIO     TOTAL    IER PAGO    UBKCACION                 EJECUCION EJECUCION
_OMSAU_MUMM                        10     P EZS         250      2,500.00         100%                                         1SDS.
OOMBAS SUMERMs                      7    PIEZAS        4500     31.500.00         100%                                         150S.
GAVIONES 2ix                      846     PIEZAS         54     34.062.0          100%
GAVION  1.6d3a                    382     PS             48      16,336.00        100%
COLCHOTAS 43Z23                   152     PIE            76      11.552.00        100%  _ _             _ _      _                _
TOTAUES                              I          I           I 906680.00 I     98.88000 
OBRAS                                                                                                                                                              °°
DESCRIPCION                CANTIDAD  UNIOAD        PRECIO      COSTO          IER.    REFERENCI IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO     TOTAL    PAGO 20/    UBICACiON 1(HABIANT.) EJECUCION EJECUCION
CONST.POZOS SEMPROUNDOS            10     POZOS        3000     30,000.00      6,000.00 6 COWNID. X      1904 A.DMIRECTA       600S
CONST. DEFENSIVOS (GAVM10ES)     2419         M3       14.52    35,120.00      7,024.00 7cOduImOD(       2086 CONTRATO         9ODS
SSTEMAS DE MICRORSGO                8       UDD.   11712.75     93,702.00      18,740.40       (XX)           CONTRTO          9ODS
CONST.POZoS PROFUNDOS               7     POZOS        9000     63,000.00      12,600.00 t0COMUMD.(XY    3123 CONTRATO         300S-
REMAUTMaoN OOTAs                    5       UDD.      3137.2    15,686.00      3,137.20
CHUWWMRUPANM(VcrwAww)                                            19,997.00     3,999.40
PTE. ULA-COROICO CVu Ak=)                                       21.981.00      4,396.20
UNDUAVI-CHUUMAM                                                 20,000.00      4,000.00
LA PAZ-COTAPATA (VW AJem.                GLOBAL                 29,095.00      5.819.00
CARANAI - CUM1RE  CARRASCO                                       12,948.00     2,589.60
CUMBRE - CARRASCO - OUIOUIBEY                                   23,455.00      4,691.00
PTE. YOLOSA - CARANAI                                           97,639.00     19.527.80
PROTECCION ACCESOS PTE. GUANAY                                 101,146.00     20,229.20
REPAACION PTE. IUICI                                            46,067.00      9.213.40
DEFENSWVO TIPUAt                                                19.478.00      3,895.60
DEFENSIVO CHUOUltI                                              14.425.00      2,885.00
OEFENSWO HUAYTI                                                 25,444.00      5.088.80
DEfENSWO LURIVAY                                                43.112.00      8.622.40
OEfENSIVO GUANAY .                                             135,658.00     27.131.60
CARANAVI. GUANAY   .                                            34,990.00      6.998.00



PRESUPUESTO DEPTO. COCHABAMBA                                  T/C REFERENCIAL BS.5.38
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZO/98
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION                  CANTIDAD  UNIDAD        PRECIO       COSTO                   REFERENCIA  IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO     TOTAL    1 ER. PAGO    UBICACI6N                  EJECUCION EJECUCtON
BOMBAS SUMERGIBLES                    4     PIEZAS    7,000.00     28,000.00         100%
MOTOBOMBAS DE SHP (Con Accesoros)    65     PIEZAS      600.00     39,000.00         100%
TOTALES                              691                           67,000.00     67,000.00
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION                 CANTIDAD  UNIDAD         PRECIO       COSTO          IER.    REFERENCIA  IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO     TOTAL         PAGO      UBICACION   *(HABITANT.) EJECUCION EJECUCION
CARRETERA CBB-CHIMORE (ADEL.)   PARCIAL   GLOBAL                  463,392.00     42,248.00 TRAMO 80 AL 100 GRAL.PAIS  CONTRATO
CONSTR. ATAJADOS                    220 UNIDAD            1235   271,700.00      54,340.00 2 PROV. (X)         6500 CONTRATO         SODS.
PERDORACION POZOS PROFUNDOS           4 POZOS             8700    34,800.00       6,960.00
POZOS EXCAVADOS                      65 POZOS             1102    71,630.00      14,326.00
TOTALES                                            I              841,522.00    117,874.001
|TOTAL GENERAL                                                    908,522.00
EXPRESADO EN BOLMANOS A T/C 5.38                                4.887,848.36
[TOTAL I ER. DESEMBOLSO EN BOLMANOS                                             994,622.12
(X)2 PROVtNCIAS              E. ARCE
CAMPERO



UTOAF                                PRESUPUESTO DEPTO. SANTA CRUZ                                       TIC REFERENCIAL BS.5.38
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZ0/98
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS
DESCRIPCION               CANTIDAD  UNIDAD    PRECIO        COSTO                     REFERENCIA         IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO   TOTAL        1ER. PAGO   UBICACI6N                       EJECUCION EJECUCION
COMPRA GAVIONES I XiXl           552 PIEZA        31.6992754    17,498.00        100%                                                  15DS,
COMPRA COLCHONETAS 2X4           115 PIEZA               85      9,775.00        100%                                                  15DS.
TO A E    _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  72 30   7 7 0   1 _15DS___  5S   U
1TOTALES                                                        27,273 00 1 27,273.00                                                                      o
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION               CANTIDAD  UNIDAD    PRECIO        COSTO            IER.    REFERENCIA          IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIO   TOTAL        PAGO 20%    UBICAC16N           (HABITANT.) EJECUCION EJECUCION
CANAL DESVIO (MEANDRO HUYTO-
BUENA VISTA)                     250 HM3                 75    26,250.00      5.250.00
CANAL DESVIO (MEANDRO SANTA
FE)                              350 HM3                 75    26,250.00      5,250.00
CANAL DESVIO (MEANDRO
ITAGUAZUTI)                      400 HM3                 75    30,000.00      6,000.00
CANAL DESVIO (MEANORO PUERTO
NUEVO - OKINAWA)                 700 HM3                 75    52.500.00     10,500.00
CANAL OESVIO (MEANDRO RIO
VIEOR - YAPACANI)                350 HM3                 75    26,250.00      5.250.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES (Pto.
Nuevo - Onhawa)                  300 HM3                100    30,000.00     6,000.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES
(itaguesu - Abs,o)               300 HM3                100    30,000.00     6,000.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES (El
Mojon - Palon - Rio Gramle)      300 HM3                100    30,000.00     6,000.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES (Vale
Heianoso Pal6n)                  300 HM3                100    30.000.00     6,000.00



DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES (Suruu -
Prow. ibhiO- Santa Fe)            1280 Mi.                   32    40,960.00       8,192.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES (Sundu -
Prov. Icio EJ Carmen)             1100 Mi.                   32    35,200.00       7,040.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEABLES
(haguaws u  Rio Grande - Abapo)    700 Mi.                   60    42,000.00       8,400.00
DEFENSIVOS PERMEA3LES (Cabeza
La vWei - Rio Grande)              300 Mi.                   60    18.000.00       3,600.00
OEFENSIVOS PERMEAHLES (Cuichi -
Rio Grande - Cabeza)               300 MI.                   60    18,000.00       3,600.00
REPOSC. DIOUES GAVIONES
(ta uazuU - Abapo - Cordilera)    1892 M3                    56   106,007.00      21,201.40
DIQUE OE PROTECCION (Pad6n -
CtqlAto - Poza Verde)               10 KM.                11250   112,500.00      22,500.00
DIQUE DE PROTECCION (Pai6n -
Ch1q0o6)                              3 KM.               11250    33,750.00       6,750.00
DIOUE DE PROTECCION (Warnes -
Warnes)                             15 KM.                11250   168,750.00      33,750.00                                                                        un
DIQUE DE PROTECCION (San JL*an -
iNuII de Chavez)                     7 KM.                11250    78,750.00      15,750.00
UMPIEA DE DRENES (Rlo San Jose
lchic)                             100 Mi.                  18.3     1,830.00       366.00
UMPIEZA OE ORENES (El Paimar -
YapacanO                           100 Mi.                  18.3     1,830.00       366.00
UMPIEZA DE DRENES (Rio Ichi -
Yapacane                          1500 Ml.                 19.46    29,190.00      5,838.00
TOTALES                     _968.017.00    193,603.40
ITOTAL GENERAL                                                     995,290.00
EXPRESADO EN BOLMANOS A TIC 5.36                                 5,354,660.20
ITOTAL ItEF DESEMBOLSO EN BOLMANOS                                              1,188,315.03
(XJ3 PROVINCI-S            YAPACANI
ICHILO
CHORE



UTOAF                                               PRESUPUESTO DEPTO.BENI                            T/C REFERENCIAL BS.S.38
PERIODO: ENERO A MARZO/98
(EXPRESADO EN DOLARES)
COMPRAS   (ATENDIDAS POR DEFENSA CIVIL)
DESCRIPCION                     CANTIDAD  UNIDAD PRECIO  COSTO                 %       REFERENCIA   IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIC TOTAL        lER. PAGO   UBICACI6N                   EJECUCION EJECUCION
ITOTALES                                 0o____                         01           0
OBRAS
DESCRIPCION                     CANTIDAD  UNIOAD PRECIO  COSTO                1 ER.    REFERENCIA    IMPACTO   MODALIDAD TIEMPO
UNITARIC TOTAL        PAGO 20%    U8ICACI6N       (HABITANT.' EJECUCION EJECUCION
CONST. DEFENSIVOS Ho.Co.                750 M3           120    90,000.00    18,000.00 TRINIDAD-SANTA ANA URBANO   CONTRATO         6ODS
CONST. DEFENSIVOSIREPOSICION DE TALU   1500 M3             8    12,000.00     2,400.00
UMPIEZA DE CUNETAS                    33333 MI           1.8   60.000.00    12,000.00 TRINIDAD-SANTA ANA URBANO   CONTRATO          6ODS
UMPIEZA DE CANALES                     3000 MI.        11.24    33,720.00     6,744.00 TRINIDAD.SANTAANA
CONSTRUCCION DESVIOS (CANAL)              5 ML.        40000   200,000.00    40,000.00 BARADoR)
REPOSICION ALCANTARILLAS HO TRIPLE                                                    CARRETERA
TUBO DIAMETRO 0.90 MTS.                  20 Piezas      4500    90,000.00    18,000.00 NTERPROVINCIAL
ALCANTARILLA H° DE 6 TUBOS DIAMETRO
1.20 MTS.                                 8 Piezas      8750    70,000.00    14,000.00                                       I  __    .
TOTALES                                    I         ___       555,720.00   111,144.00 1                                  _
TOTAL GENERAL                                                   555.720.001
EXPRESADO EN BOLMANOS A T/C 5.38                              2.989,773.60
ITOTAL IER. DESEMBOLSO EN BOLIVIANOS                                         597.954.72



Status of Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 59
Active Loans
BO-PE-40110   IDAN0330       1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF)         PUB FIN DECEN * ACCT              0.00      15.00            0.00         14.60        0.00       0.00
BO-PE-6173    IDA27613       1998   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    CAPITALIZATION PROG               0.00       2.90            0.00          2.84      -24.80    -23.37
BO-PE-34606   IDA27890       1996   GOVERNMENT                        FIN MRKTS 4 PENS REF              0.00        9.00            0.00         2.24         2.59      0.00
BO-PE-6173     IDA27610      1996   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    CAPITALIZATION PROG               0.00       50.00            0.00         9.18      -24.80    -23.37
BO-PE-6178    IDA27620       1996   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA               HYDROC.SEC.REFSCAPIT              0.00       10.64            0.00         1.65         1.96       1.96
BO-PE-6186    IDA28050       1996   REPUB. OF BOLIVIA                 ENV.IND.S MINING                  0.00       11.00            0.00         9.12         1.29      0.00
BO-PE-6191     IDA27900      1996   GOVERNMENT                        POWER SCTR REF TA 6               0.00        5.10            0.00         2.37         2.37       0.00
BO-PE-6202    IDA27720       1996   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA             RURAL COM4UNITIES DE              0.00       15.00            0.00         5.47         2.36      0.00
BO-PE-6206    IDA28060       1996   GOVT OF BOLIVIA                   RURAL NTR & SANIT                 0.00      20.00             0.00        13.52         8.60       0.00
BO-PE-37005   IDA26470       1995   GOV'T OF BOLIVIA                  REGULATORY REF S CAP              0.00       14.70            0.00           .93      -1.39        0.00
BO-PE-6181    IDA26500       1995   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    EDUCATION REFORM                  0.00      40.00             0.00        20.54         1.89       0.00
BO-PE-6197     IDA27420      1995   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    LAND ADMINISTRATION               0.00      20.40             0.00        13.33          .65       0 00
BO-PE-6205     IDA27050      1995   GOVT. OF BOLIVIA                  JUDICIAL REFORM                   0.00       11.00            0.00         6.94         2.81       0.00
BO-PE-6190    IDA25650       1994   GOVMT OF BOLIVIA                  MUNICIPAL DEV                     0.00       42.00            0.00        19.71        13.54       0 00
BO-PE-6196    IDA25310       1993   GOV OF BOLIVIA                    INTEGRATED CHILD DEV              0.00       50.70            0.00        39.66        19.29       0.00
80-PE-6200     IDA25320      1993   GOVT OF BOLIVIA                   SoC INVEST FUND II                0.00       40.00            0.00          7.19        6.43       0.00
BO-PE-6180    IDA23950       1992   GOV'T OF BOLIVIA    A             RD MAINT                          0.00      80.00             0.00        33.12        30.98       0.00
8O-PE-6188     IDA22160      1991   GOVT OF BOLIVIA      A            TECNNOLOGY DEV                    0.00       21.00            0.00          1.00         .60       0.00
BO-PE-6166    IDA20920       1990   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA             INTEGRATED NLTN DEV               0.00      20.00             0.00         2.49          .33       0.00
BO-PE-6179    IDA21340       1990   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA             PRIVATE ENTRP DEV                 0.00       16.10            0.00           .01       -1.35       0.00
Total                                                                                                   0.00      494.54            0.00       205.91        43.35    -44.78
Active Loans        Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (I8RD and IDA):                 282.87              973.87            1,256. 74
of which has been repaid:                   0.00              277.69              277.69
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 494.54              685.37            1,179.91
Amount sold                                       0.00                  05                 .05
Of which repaid                                0.00                 .05                 .05
Total Undisbursed                               205.91               12.89              218.80
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursemnts to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementatlon Sumary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (NS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U * unsatisfactory, HU * highly unsatisfactory)  see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23. 1994.
Note:
Disburseent data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
*p.



- 54 -
Annex 1 2
Bolivia at a glance                                                                   ---
Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America  middle-
Bolivia   & Carib.  income    iDvelopment diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        7.6      485    1,125
GNP per capita 1906 (USS)                            930      3,710    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               7.1     1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-46
Population (%)                                        2.4       1.7      1.4     GNP          /                  Gross
Labor force (X)                                       2.6       2.3      1.8     per
per                   ~~~~~~~primary
Most recent estimate (latest yar avalable sihce 1989)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)             ..
Urban population (% of total popuLaon)                58        74       56
Life expectancy at birth (yaIs)                       60        69       67
Infant mortality (per 1.000 Om bIrths)                69        37       41                Access to safe waler
Child malnutrition (% otchildren under 5)             13
Acces to safe water (% ofpopulaon)                    60        80       78
Illitefacy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                    17        13        *Bcvva
Gros primary enrollment (% o schoo-e population)     95       110      104
iMah                                                99                105                Lower- ikke4ncomne gioup
Female                                              90         *-    101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      199S     196
Economic ratlos
GDP (bililns USS)                            1.9     3.6        6.8      7.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                24.5    16.8       14.8    16.1
Exports of goods and sericeslGDP            26.1    14.3       18.3     17.              Openness of conmy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..        ..      9.7    10.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  16.3    11.3        9.6     11.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -8.1    -5.5       -5.2     -5.1
Interest payments/GDP                        1.5      5.3       2.6      2.1     Savings        -            Investment
Total debt/GDP                              53.3   133.5       77.4    68.3
Total debt servce/exports                   17.5    49.6       29.7     26.7
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      55.0    47.0
Present value of debtexpots                   ..       ..    303.5    278.0                  Indebtedness
1975-85  198646    1996       1996  1997-05
(average annual grmwh)                                                               -     Bolvia
GOP                                 -0.2     3.8      3.9       4.0      5.5           -Lower-nikkZ94toome group
GNP per capita                     -3.1      1.9      1.6       1.6      3.2               L
Exports of goods and services      -4.2      8.2    11.2        2.9      6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1985      1996      1996
(Xof GOP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                 20.3    36.9       17.7     17.5      20
Industry                                    32.2    36.3       25.6     25.7
Manufacturing                              12.3    15.3       15.0     15.1     10o     4
Services                                    47.5    26.8       56.7     56.8       o
91   92   93   94    f    9g
Private consumption                         71.2    81.1       77.0     76.5    -10
General govemment consumption               10.5    10.6       13.4     13.4                     GDI   -0   GOP
Imports of goods and services               32.1    22.8       23.5    23.6
1975-86  1986-96     1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exporta and imports (%)
Agriculure                                   1.4            ..        ..         20 
Industry                                    -3.2       ..        ..       ..        l
Manufacturing                              -1.8       ..        ..       ..      s
Services                                     1.4       ..        ..       ..    10
Private consumption                          28       3.9       4.1      4.2                 s *
General govemment consumption               -0.9      2.5       1.2      1.323
Gross domestic investment                   -15.7     63        9.2      9.1             DI   92   93   94   es   96
Imports of goods and services               -6.3      5.2       8.3     15.7                   E l nr
Gross national product                       -1.0     4.1       3.9      5.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specffied.
'The diamonds show four key indicators h the country (in bold) cornpared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vwill
be incomplete.



- 55 -
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FNANCE
1976     1905      1991     1990
Oomesc pdces                                                                       Inflaion
(% change)                                                                        30.
Consumer prices (DecJDec.)                    7.8  11,749.6     12.6      8.0             Q
Implicit GDP deflator (DecJDec.)              6.5  11,289.1     12.9     12.7    20
10'
Govwnment finance
(% otGDP)                                                                          o9
Current revenue                                                 23.2     22.              91    92   93   94   95 96
Current budget balance                                                                        - 6  S  - GDP dot.  -*- CPI
Overall surplus/rdhecit                                         -1.8      -1.8
TRADE
1976     1986      1996     1996
(mildions USS)                                                                      Expo6t and Import leveis (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                   628      1,075    1,131     20o0
Tin                                                  187        89       88
Fuel                                                 376       142      138      1,coo
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (oil)                            ..     691      1,394    1,568       00
Food                                          .                                       FfiI    I-irD                 H
Fuel anw energy                               .        ..        L.
Capital goods                                 ..     263       566      702 
Exportpricelndex (1907u100)                             93        70                     90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price ixdex (1987.100)                          120       194         -E DBpoit    Oimpeof
Terms of trade (1987.100)                               78        36
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     106       1996     1996
(nViNons US$)                                                                      Current sccount balance to GOP rato I%)
Exports of goods and services                 486      721      1,252    1,328      o
lmpofts o goods and servkcs                   618      807      1,694    1.772         90  91   92  93  94   95  96
Resource balance                             *132      -86      -342     -444
Net factor income                             -41     -423      -221     -169      -s
Net current transwers                          19      311       209      229         D     IIJ
Current account baiance,                                                           10
before official capHal transfe             -154     -198       -354     -3841
Financing Items (net)                         114     227        477      720
Changes in net reserves                       40       -29      -123     -336     -15
Alamo:.,
Reserves including gold (Mill. USS)           197     492        737    1,132
Conversion rate floWJSS)                  2.8E-05      0.8       4.8      5.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     19#6      1996     1996
(fnl/ions USS)                                                                     Composibon of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,013    4,806      6,266    5124
IBRD                                         21      207        95   61.354                     G  A
IDA                                          50       94       770  42.701                  F  30568       B
301             8
Total debt service                             87      386       372      355
IBRD                                          2       27        36   32.154                                     c
IDA                                           1        2         8    8.321                                    259
Composition of net resource flowsr
Official grants                               8       71       202      221            E
Oflicial creditors                           38       -1       271      256           1705
Private creditors                            78      -36        41        -5
Foreign dirct investment                     53       10       177      426 D
Portfolio equiy                               0        0         0        0                               1843
World Bank program
Commitments                                  40        0       116      SS5                 A-                   E-Biatulu
Disbursermnts                                10       12       113   99.845                 1 3RD   D-Other      F- Pnfst
Principal repayments                          1       13        29   28.262                 B- (OA  mutial       G - Short.
Net nows                                      9       -1        84   71.583      _                                        1
Interest paments                              1       16        15   12.213
Net transfes                                  8      -17        69    59.37
Development Economics and LA3CI                                                                                     8128/97



MAP SECTION



00'                         62'                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2051
B R A Z I L                                                                         B O  L I V  I A
To1  PorroVe ro
Fortolsre |c
PA *t            r                                                                       ROADS
mOeio8roncoX                 f                  Cocoisis)                                                               _____   Secondary
oSonto Rose    Guc.       orr uoro                                                       ----------Tracks
V09610 CpC .4iit  JJ     >                                                                                               -      - Ferry Lines
ACu¶1ne t OiD               @           iO- \                                                                           t9 Rivers
0     To-rs
Notional Capitol
12'                                                                                                                                      Deportment Booncaries12
\M-    -    Intern-tionl.  Boundaries
;Feto Hacor                                                  <j; ts, i Altipl-no
Oeualecada 1   ')1            .iordLo.airos
P  E  R  U  e,.                                          SwuaA0mos    Lf   '  SontoAr
j   Sr0m;    °sanocmt-so .           E    S R                                                      (o         50    00   iso   200   2S0
AP.   aEk-wntrRJnD:u                                                                                                              Kt \lMTERS
2      SueroeorFRynrsnbaqus00                                                                                                                     50
'L A/ P A tD S                                              RINRAD
CO honzconi OM.pi        hi            tElCo,m
M      c~~~~atao         Coonoc       So  s           9J roeoroi
Vr!;x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .  C  h   U e  '^-6                                             i
J ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ f                               YO,,--  Coe c   c n                                            ,__   S   ow2nT B-1
T          r           io          i O R UtRLoA\ Mo           .              \'C,> --- oPeraoci jA 
Mdrooin  ~          'N                                    JR          tbr          t    Cb2s'uar
-20     >    i  SAL- PAN   '        ,.' ~~~~Ersni         - juiotSoe                                               Son / P    R AtoeUl       5U^g  e2Ciln
C  H               I. L  E~qipy                         C   TO S    hort 'lIt- R ken. _al                  ,___po  A              t R       j
0oviri~Cta~Ji  ,PisrojcrG 9.       X__o  
a7|g-                       ic                                                                                                        Robo,6
PARAGUAY~~~~~ANAR I 988
SALN                        6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                      uO0
SALTg PANT  0              S    IOir
CHILE  tPOTOSIOAU  G                                     osE EI N A
6,e  T. S"i.,       b.-16. ~        /         rsoroeou- ro .                              '
1%  ~ ~ ~ ~ "~~'s ~       Mo  /EJ,ooOco                                                                     AA
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR 1988 act



