Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3057-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(El Niño Emergency Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 27, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3057-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree 19386 of January 17, 1983 (Supreme Decree 
19386) established the Borrower’s civil defense system (the Civil Defense System), for 
the protection of the population against the impact of catastrophic occurrences; such 
system to be headed by a national civil defense committee (the National Civil Defense 
Committee) responsible for taking all measures required to prevent, mitigate and 
remedy the effect of natural disasters, and to include departmental and provincial 
civil defense committees (the Decentralized Civil Defense Committees);
(C)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree 24680 of June 23, 1993 (Supreme Decree 
24680) restructured the Civil Defense System, the National Civil Defense Committee and 
the Decentralized Civil Defense Committees;
(D)
the Borrower’s presidential instructive of September 5, 1997 (the 
Presidential Instructive) ordered the Civil Defense System to prepare a plan of 
national emergency (the National Emergency Plan) to counteract the impact of the El 
Niño Phenomenon (as hereinafter defined) in conjunction with representatives of the 
public and private sectors;
(E)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree 24857 of September 22, 1997 (Supreme Decree 
24857) declared in emergency all the territory of the Borrower as a consequence of the 
Page  2
El Niño Phenomenon (as hereinafter defined);
(F)
the Borrower’s ministerial resolution 0830-A of October 27, 1997 
(Ministerial Resolution) established the Unidad Técnica Operativa de Apoyo y 
Fortalecimiento al Sistema Nacional de Defensa Civil (UTOAF) as the agency responsible 
for the preparation and implementation of the National Emergency Plan;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Drought Regeneration Subproject" means an investment subproject: (i) to 
restore agricultural productive capacity, adversely affected by the drought caused by 
El Niño Phenomenon, for the 1998-1999 sowing season; (ii) to be carried out in an 
Eligible Area (as hereinafter defined) by an Implementing Agency (as hereinafter 
defined) under an Implementation Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and (iii) which 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and 
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), and "Drought Regeneration 
Subprojects" means all of such investment subprojects;
(b)
"Eligible Area" means the territory of any department or municipality of 
the Borrower: (i) declared in emergency under the provisions of Supreme Decree 24857, 
as such Supreme Decree may be amended from time to time; and (ii) declared eligible 
under the Project by agreement between the Borrower and the Association pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (c) (iii) of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement, and "Eligible Areas" means all 
of such territories; 
(c)
"El Niño Phenomena" means the appearance, from time to time, of 
anomalously warm sea surface temperatures in the central and eastern Pacific Ocean 
near to the Equator, which gives rise to unusual changes in normal climate patterns 
around the world, including the coastal region of South America, and "El Niño 
Phenomenon" means the El Niño Phenomena of 1997-1998;
(d)
"Environmental Plan" means any of the plans for the remediation or 
mitigation of the environmental impact of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), 
prepared in accordance with the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
"FAO" means the Food and Agriculture Organization;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 
and ending on December 31 of each calendar year;
(g)
"Flood Reconstruction Subproject" means an investment subproject: (i) to 
rehabilitate and/or reconstruct economic or social infrastructure facilities damaged 
by the floods caused by the El Niño Phenomenon; (ii) to be carried out in an Eligible 
Area by an Implementing Agency (as hereinafter defined) under an Implementation 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and (iii) which meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined), and "Flood Reconstruction Subprojects" means all of such 
investment subprojects;
(h)
"Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement, and 
"Implementation Agreements"  means all of such agreements;
(i) 
"Implementing Agency"  means an agency or public enterprise at the 
national, departmental or municipal level of the Borrower, duly established under the 
Page  3
laws of the Borrower, which: (i) has been selected for the implementation of 
Subprojects from the list included in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
or; (ii) is approved by the Borrower and the Association on the basis of the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), and 
"Implementing Agencies" means all of such agencies and public enterprises;
(j)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of 
even date herewith containing: (i)  the Performance Indicators (as hereinafter 
defined); and (ii) the list of Prevention Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) 
approved by the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
"Indigenous Peoples Development Plan" means any of the plans for the 
development of indigenous peoples that may be affected by a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined), prepared in accordance with the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
and to be carried out pursuant to Part A.1 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
to be approved by the Association pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
setting forth the rules and procedures for the implementation of the Project 
including, inter alia: (i) detailed eligibility criteria and evaluation and approval 
procedures for Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); (ii)  responsibilities of the 
personnel of UTOAF  and the Project Management Firm (as hereinafter defined); (iii) 
contractual arrangements for the coordination and execution of the Project; (iv) 
coordination mechanisms with other agencies and institutions involved in emergency 
activities; (v) appropriate mechanisms for community participation in the Project; 
(vi) environmental criteria and procedures for Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); 
(vii) procurement, disbursements, accounting and auditing procedures; and (viii) 
monitoring and evaluation procedures for the Project, as such manual may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(m)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to measure the progress in 
the implementation of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, as such 
indicators are set forth in the Implementation Letter;
(n)
"Prevention Subproject" means an investment subproject: (i) to mitigate 
the impact of flood related losses or damages anticipated to be caused by El Niño 
Phenomenon and including, inter alia, works such as the construction of dikes, 
strengthening of river defenses and cleaning of storm drainages; or (ii) to mitigate 
the impact of drought related losses or damages anticipated to be caused by El Niño 
Phenomenon and including works such as the drilling of wells, installation of water 
pumps and construction of earthen dams; and (iii) which is listed in the 
Implementation Letter or approved by the Borrower and the Association after the 
execution of this Agreement, and "Prevention Subprojects" means all of such investment 
subprojects;
(o)
"Project Director" means the Project director referred to in Part A.1 (b) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(p)
"Project Management Firm" means the consulting firm to be retained by the 
Borrower pursuant to Part A.1 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated 
February 11, 1998, and countersigned by the Borrower's representative on February 20, 
1998;
(r)
"Seeds Subproject" means any Drought Regeneration Subproject which 
consists of, or includes, the acquisition and distribution of seeds to the respective 
beneficiaries;
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(t)
"Subprojects" means collectively Prevention Subprojects, Drought 
Regeneration Subprojects and Flood Reconstruction Subprojects; and
(u)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement, referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR18,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, in the Borrower’s central bank, a separate special deposit account on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2008 and ending February 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2018, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
Page  5
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through UTOAF and with the participation of the Implementing 
Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
managerial, administrative, financial, engineering and environmental  practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, the Implementation Letter and the Operational 
Manual.
(ii) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, with UTOAF providing for the responsibilities of each party in the 
implementation of the Project. The Borrower shall duly perform each of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, the 
Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower, through UTOAF, shall enter into agreements 
with the Implementing Agencies, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; such agreements to provide for their 
respective obligations in the implementation of the Project and, 
in particular, the Implementing Agencies’ responsibility to carry 
out the Subprojects under their responsibility in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement, the Implementation Letter and 
the Operational Manual.
(ii)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to achieve the purposes of the 
Credit. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to 
enforce the Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof.
Page  6
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction to Sections 9.01 (a), 9.05 and 
9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and 
December 31,  a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project in the preceding quarterly period, setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, evaluating the losses and damages caused, 
and anticipated to be caused, by the El Niño Phenomenon in the territory of the 
Borrower and estimating the financial resources required to remedy such losses and 
damages; 
(c)
promptly inform the Association of any proposed changes to the laws and 
regulations that govern the establishment and operation of UTOAF; and
(d)
review with the Association, not later than December 31, 1998, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the progress in the implementation of the 
Project and, thereafter, take all measures, satisfactory to the Association, as shall 
be necessary or appropriate for the efficient implementation of the Project or for the 
attainment of its objectives.
Section 3.04. The Association may, as a result of the review referred to in 
Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement and without limitation or restriction to the 
provisions of Section 6.03 of the General Conditions, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account to finance Subprojects in the 
event that:
(a)
the anticipated floods or drought resulting from the El Niño Phenomenon 
do not occur during 1998 in any of the Eligible Areas with the intensity anticipated 
at the time of execution of this Agreement; or
(b)
the Credit proceeds are no longer required for the financing of 
Subprojects.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  7
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the Supreme Decrees 
19386, 24680 or 24857 or the Presidential Instructive or the Ministerial Resolution 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower 
to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition precedent 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement shall have 
been executed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties and is legally binding 
upon the respective parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of July 27, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Paris, France, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Edgar Millares 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
85%
(other than those
carried out under
force account
procedures)
Page  9
(a)
Part A of 
 700,000
the Project
(b)
Part B of
    10,400,000
the Project
(2)
Civil Works
75%
under force account
procedures
(a)
Part A of
 400,000
the Project
(b)
Part B of
 400,000
the Project
(3)
Goods
100% of foreign
(including seeds)
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(a)
Part A of 
 700,000
the Project
(b)
Part B of
     1,100,000
the Project
(4)
Consultants’
     3,000,000
100%
services (including
advertising services)
and Training
(5)
Project Preparation
 400,000
100%
Advance
(6)
Unallocated
     1,400,000
TOTAL
    18,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures in connection with: (i) 
remuneration of trainers; (ii) domestic and international travel and per diems of 
trainers and trainees; or (iii) training materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 2,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after September 22, 1997; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under a Subproject unless the respective 
Implementation Agreement has been duly executed;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), 2 (b) and (3) 
Page  10
(b), in respect of Part B of the Project, unless the Borrower, through UTOAF, shall 
have: (i) retained the Project Management Firm; (ii) adopted the Operational Manual;  
(iii) agreed with the Association on the respective Eligible Area; and (iv) 
established and made operational a system, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
administrative, financial and accounting control of the Project; 
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3), in 
respect of Parts A and B of the Project, unless the Borrower, through UTOAF, and the 
Association shall have agreed on the terms of reference for the technical audits to be 
carried out pursuant to Part A.1 (g) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and 3 
(b) in respect of any Seeds Subproject unless the Borrower, through UTOAF, shall have 
carried out and furnished to the Association, a report, satisfactory to the 
Association, with an analysis of the availability of seeds, for the affected provinces 
and by crop, for the 1998 sowing season; and
(f)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and 3 
(b) in respect to a Seeds Subproject unless the Borrower, through UTOAF, and the 
Association shall have agreed on the conditions and mechanisms under which the 
respective seeds shall be distributed to the respective beneficiaries.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts 
costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (c) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each; and (e) 
Training.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower, on an emergency basis, 
to: (a) reduce the loss of human life and the deterioration in living standards that 
may result from the floods and drought caused by the El Niño Phenomenon; (b) reduce 
the loss of, or damage to, economic and social infrastructure that may result from 
such floods and drought; (c) rehabilitate damaged economic and social infrastructure 
that may result from such floods; and (d) restore the agricultural productive capacity 
for the 1998 sowing season in the areas adversely affected by such drought.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Prevention Program and Emergency Support 
1.
Carrying out of Prevention Subprojects.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of bailey bridges, mobile power plants, water 
treatment plants and pumps (including spare parts for existing plants and pumps), 
metallic protection structures and other capital goods, which may be agreed between 
the Borrower and the Association, urgently required during the flood emergency.
Part B:
Reconstruction Program
1.
Carrying out of  Flood Reconstruction Subprojects.
2.
Carrying out of Drought Regeneration Subprojects.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Public Information
1.
Strengthening of the capabilities of UTOAF for planning and managing the 
emergency resulting from the El Niño Phenomenon through: (a) the contracting of the 
Project Management Firm to assist in the technical evaluation of the activities under 
Parts A and B of the Project and in the procurement of works, goods and consultants’ 
services under the Project; and (b) the recruitment of the Project Director and 
consultants, including the technical and financial auditors,  to assist in the 
implementation of the Project.
Page  11
2.
Strengthening of the capabilities of the Implementing Agencies, through the 
contracting of consultants’ services, for identifying, preparing and implementing 
Subprojects.
3.
Strengthening of the capabilities of the Borrower through the contracting of 
consultants’ services, in  managing natural disasters.
4.
Carrying out of a program to disseminate information to general public related 
to the implementation of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by  June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable,  contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost: (i) $150,000 equivalent or more each, in the case of goods; and (ii) 
$2,000,000 equivalent or more each, in the case of works under Part B of the Project.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works under the Project estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of all works under Part C.1 (a) above shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent (for works under Part A of the 
Project) and $4,500,000 (for works under Part B of the Project), may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Emergency equipment under Part A.2 of the Project and estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$500,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Small works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
Seeds under Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Force Account
Small rehabilitation public works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines provided, however, that such works are: (a) carried out in the jurisdiction 
of municipalities (municipios) with a population not exceeding 1,500 inhabitants; and 
(b) certified and valued by an independent firm, with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of criteria and methodology satisfactory 
to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not later 
than June 30, 1998 and quarterly thereafter, furnish to the Association for its review 
and approval, a procurement plan for goods and works to be procured during the 
following three months and, in respect of Subproject, the source of funding thereof, 
all prepared following terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works to be awarded under 
Part B of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for works to be awarded under 
Part C.1 (a) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works to be awarded 
under Part C.3 of this Section; (ii) the first  contract for goods to be awarded under 
Part C.2 of this Section; (iii)  the first two contracts for equipment, to be awarded 
under Part C.4 (a); (iv) the first two contracts for works to be awarded under Part 
C.4 (b) of this Section; and (v) the first two contracts for seeds to be awarded under 
Part C.4 (c) of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: (A) prior to the 
selection of any supplier or contractor, as the case may be,  the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received. (B) prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
Page  13
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Technical services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Engineering services under Part C.1 (b) of the Project, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for institutional strengthening of UTOAF under Part C.1 of the Project, 
in tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $680,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
Part A:
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of  works 
referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower's agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
Part B:
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
Page  15
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  16
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
General
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
ensure that, at all times until completion of the Project, UTOAF remains 
responsible for Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation, and is vested with the 
following functions and responsibilities:
(i)
coordinating and supervising the implementation of the Project, 
under the supervision of the National Civil Defense Committee and 
in coordination with the Decentralized Civil Defense Committees;
(ii)
screening and evaluating Subprojects;
Page  17
(iii)
approving, jointly with the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, 
Subprojects for financing under the Project;
(iv)
contracting and supervising the provision of the technical 
assistance under Part C of the Project;
(v)
preparing the reports and the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (b) 
and 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, respectively; and
(vi)
supervising the procurement of the goods, works and consultants' 
services required for the Project.
(b)
ensure that UTOAF is, at all times during the execution of the Project, 
headed by a Project director and assisted by professional staff in adequate numbers, 
all with qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association;
(c) 
retain, and thereafter maintain, a consulting firm, with qualifications 
and experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist 
UTOAF in the technical evaluation of Subprojects, procurement activities under the 
Project and Project administration and financial management;
(d)
(i)
employ a team of experts, with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to undertake the environmental 
assessments or indigenous peoples’ studies that may be required 
for each Subproject, pursuant to the Operational Manual;
(ii)
exchange views with the Association on the results of each of the 
above assessments or studies;
(iii)
prepare on the basis of the above assessments or studies and 
furnish to the Association, prior to the initiation of the 
execution of the respective Subproject, the required Environmental 
Plan or Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, as the case may be, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(iv)
promptly after the Association’s approval, carry out or cause to 
be carried out the Environmental Plan or the Indigenous People's 
Development Plan, as the case may be, in accordance with their 
respective terms;
(e)
ensure that:
(i)
only pesticides approved by the Association, from among the list 
of pesticides which meet the present standards established by the 
FAO and the World Health Organization, will be used on the 
Borrower's territory; 
(ii)
persons handling pesticides will be provided with protective 
clothing and equipment, including health kits, and shall be 
adequately qualified and trained to handle pesticides; 
(iii)
adequate advance notice will be given to the local population in 
the areas to be sprayed with pesticides; 
(iv)
the labeling, packaging and storage of pesticide containers, and 
the disposal of pesticides and pesticide containers, will be 
carried out in accordance with the internationally accepted 
general standards provided for under the International Code of 
Conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticides published by the 
FAO; and 
(v)
suitable pesticide effluent disposal mechanisms will be made 
available to prevent environmental pollution and pesticide leakage 
into groundwater, including leakage resulting from the rinsing of 
pesticide containers;
(f)
(i)
submit to the Association, not later than October 31, 1998, the 
final list of Drought Regeneration Subprojects;
Page  18
(ii)
submit to the Association, not later than December 31, 1998, the 
final list of Flood Reconstruction Subprojects;
(iii)
ensure that all Drought Regeneration Subprojects are carried out 
by not later than January 31, 1999; and
(iv)
ensure that all Flood Reconstruction Subprojects are carried out 
by not later than June 30, 2000; and
(g)
(i)
retain independent auditors acceptable to the Association to 
conduct, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
technical audits for each semester, with the exception of the 
first report which will cover the period from September 22, 1997 
through June 30, 1998, on the performance by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Project including achievement of physical 
targets, quality and cost of Subprojects, compliance with 
eligibility
criteria of Subprojects, and procurement, 
disbursement 
and environmental procedures set forth in the Operating 
Rules; and 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in no case 
later than ninety days after June 30, 1998 the first report of 
such auditors and ninety days after each subsequent semester, the 
respective report of such auditors.
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria and Approval Procedures for Subprojects
1.
Subprojects shall comply with the following criteria:
Flood Reconstruction Subprojects 
(a)
the Subproject shall consist of investments in the areas of: (i) water 
management (including irrigation, agricultural drainage, river dredging and 
strengthening of river defenses and bridges); (ii) water supply; (iii) protection or 
rehabilitation of energy facilities; (iv) rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of 
roads, bridges and urban streets;  (v) protection or rehabilitation of educational and 
health facilities; and/or (vi) other areas which may be agreed between the Borrower 
and the Association;
(b)
the infrastructure facility existed prior to the anticipated floods 
caused by the El Niño Phenomenon and was utilized for its intended purpose;
(c)
the damage to the concerned infrastructure facility is a consequence of 
the floods caused by the El Niño Phenomenon; and
(d)
the Subproject is included in the list of Flood Reconstruction Projects 
referred to in Part A.1 (f) (ii) of this Schedule.
Drought Regeneration Subprojects 
(a) 
the Subproject shall consist of investments in the drilling of wells, 
rehabilitation of small irrigation systems and building of earthen dams for water 
preservation, acquisition and distribution of seeds and/or other investments which may 
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(b)
the Subproject is included in the list of Drought Regeneration 
Subprojects referred to in Part A.1 (f) (i) of this Schedule.
2.
The procedures for submission and approval of Subprojects shall be: 
(a)
potential Subprojects shall be identified by the respective Implementing 
Agencies;
(b)
applications for the approval of Subprojects shall be submitted by the 
respective Implementing Agencies to UTOAF;
(c)
UTOAF shall be responsible for the review and evaluation of all proposed 
Subprojects; and
(d)
final approval of each Subproject shall be vested in the Project Director 
and the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.
Page  19
Part C:
Terms and Provisions of the Implementation Agreements
Implementation Agreements shall be entered into on terms whereby UTOAF shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower, 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Implementing Agency to carry out and operate the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental  practices;
(b)
require the Implementing Agency to take all necessary action, including 
the maintaining of adequate records, to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under Section 4.01  and Part A.1 (g) of this Agreement;
(c)
require that the procurement of works, goods and services under the 
Subproject, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, be made in accordance 
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
require that the goods, works and consultants’ services, to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Subproject;
(e)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Borrower and 
the Association, if the Borrower and the Association shall so request, such goods, 
works and construction sites included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents;
(f)
require that: (i) the Implementing Agency shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound managerial practice; and (ii) without any limitation 
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable to the 
Implementing Agency to replace or repair such goods;
(g)
obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Association  shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Implementing Agency and to the benefits to be derived from 
the Subproject; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing Agency to benefit from 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Implementing Agency to perform its 
obligations under the corresponding Implementation Agreement.
