Page  1
April 19, 1999
Herbert Müller
Ministerio de Hacienda 
  Palacio de Comunicaciones 
Piso 19 Av.
Mariscal Santa Cruz esq 
Calle Oruro s/n Casilla 
Postal 9917 
La Paz, Bolivia
His Excellency:
Re:
Credit No.3057-BO (El Niño Emergency Assistance Project) -
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated April 27, 1998 between 
the  International Development Association (the Association) and the Republic of 
Bolivia (the Borrower). In this letter all terms defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement have the same meaning as therein set forth.
Pursuant to your request, the Association hereby agrees to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement as follows:
1.
Paragraph (p) of Section 1.02 is amended to read as follows: " (p) "Management 
Consultants" means the consultants to be retained by the Borrower pursuant to Part A.1 
(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;" 
2.
Sub- paragraph (c) of Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by replacing 
the words " Project Management Firm" by "Management Consultants".
3.
Schedule 5 is hereby amended as follows:
(a) Sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 1 of Part A is amended by replacing the words 
"a consulting firm" in the first line of the paragraph by " management consultants".
(b) Sub-paragraph (f) of paragraph 1 of Part A is amended to read as follows: 
"(i)
submit to the Association, not later than November 30, 1998, the final list of 
Drought Regeneration Subprojects; (ii) submit to the Association, not later than 
November 30, 1998, the final list of Flood Reconstruction Subprojects; (iii) ensure 
that all Drought Regeneration Subprojects are carried out by not later than December 
31, 1999; and (iv) ensure that all Flood Reconstruction Subprojects are carried out by 
not later than June 30, 2000; and" 
(c)
Sub-paragraph (a) under paragraph 1 Part B under " Earthquake 
Reconstruction Subprojects" is amended by inserting the words "urban and" before the 
words "rural areas".
Please confirm your agreement with the above by signing this letter in the space 
provided and return to us. The amendments set forth in this letter shall enter into 
effect upon receipt by the Association of a duly countersigned original of this 
letter. Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernesto May 
Acting Director 
Country Managing Unit Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Herbert Muller
