Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2944-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
January 14, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00      =     NRs 12.00
NR 1.00      =     US$0.08
NRs 100             US$8.33
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
ASC      -   Agricultural Service Center
DA       -   Department of Agriculture, MFA
DADO     -   District Agriculture Development Officer
DCA      -   Development Credit Agreement
DDP      -   District Development Plan
ha       -   hectare
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
kg       -   kilogram
km       -   Kilometer
M        -   Million
MFA      -   Ministry of Food and Agriculture
NFC      -   Nepal Food Corporation
PC       -   Project Coordinator
RDA      -   Regional Director of Agriculture
SDR      -   Special Drawing Rights
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRCODUCTION PROJECT
Credit and E'roject Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 6.3 Million
(US$8.0 Million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The project aims to increase food production in four
western Hill districts of Gorkha, Lamjung, Syanja, and
Tanahu, by providing appropriate extension advice and sup-
port services for undertaking low-cost farming practices
selected to have an immediate impact on food production,
better animal health and increased availability of live-
stock feed. The project also includes provision of
fertilizer for the project area. It is expected that the
project would reach nearly 50% of the 147,000 farm families
in the project area. Irrigation works benefitting at least
10,000 farm families and trails and bridges benefitting
all the populatiorL in these districts would also be
upgraded. In view of the remoteness of the project area,
there is a risk that all components may not be undertaken
effectively and the interrelated services may not provided;
there is also the risk that area farmers may not have
access to the development services. The project is
therefore designed to minimize the administrative and
logistical difficulties of providing services in remote
areas through the use of local agricultural service
centers. These centers have been found to be effective in
other projects in marshalling and directing services and
in reaching a broad spectrum of participants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                                           US$ Million Equivalent
of Project 1/:          Component                      Local   Foreign  Total
I.  Agriculture
Agricultural Service Centers  1.23        0.05    1.28
Agriculture Extension           0.46      0.26    0.72
Livestock & Animal Health       0.12      0.04    0.16
Subtotal                      1.81      0.35    2.16
II.  Fertilizer                      0.32      0.90    1.22
III.  Infrastructure
Irrigation                      2.39      0.31    2.70
Trails and Bridges              0.37      0.15    0.52
Subtotal                      2.76      0.46    3.22
IV. Technical Assistance &
Training                      0.05      0.64    0.69
Base Cost                       4.94      2.35    7.29
V. Contingencies
Physical                        0.56      0.07    0.63
Price                           1.20      0.58    1.78
Subtotal                      1.76      0.65    2.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST               6.70      3.00    9.70
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                 5.75      2.25    8.00
Government                          0.85       -       0.85
UNDP                                0.10      0.75    0.85
6.70     3.00    9.70
Estimated IDA                                     US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursement:      IDA FY             1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual             0.3    1.1    2.0    2.0    1.6    1.0
Cumulative         0.3    1.4    3.4    5.4    7.0    8.0
Rate of Return:      58%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3136-NEP, dated January 5, 1981.
1/   Includes US$50,000 equivalent of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EKECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
6.3 million (US$8.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Hill Food Production Project. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
is expected to provide a grant of US$0.85 million equivalent for technical
assistance and training (para 51).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least: developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $120 (1978), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated to be 13.36
million (1978). About 95% of the population live in rural areas.
4.        The economy of Nepal ceni:ers around agriculture.  It accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a liveli-
hood to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial
sector, which comprises about 10% of GDP, processes agricultural raw mate-
rials. About 25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-
agricultural activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important
of these, engaging over 1 million people and comprising about 6% of GDP. They
prov 'e basic consumer goods in the many small isolated markets where such
good. 4ou'1 X herwise not be available.
5.        As    mall o-en economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to develop-
ments in Ini...  The lerai, which lies along the Indian border, has close
and virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of
the country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley,
.he adlministrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai,
but ^- significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills
and 'ountains, is isolated by the nature of the terrain and consists of a
large number of fragmented markets.
1/   Part I of this Report is subEtantially the same as Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
proposed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the Babai Irrigation Engi-
neering Project (Report 1, E'-2926-NEP of December 11, 1980).



- 2 -
6.        When Nepal adoptecd econor,.ic ancd socia2 development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1iOs5, there -was virtuaLly no economic or
administrative infrastructure. initial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing c funda-iotn for Eture development.  During
these early stages, it was is  v Laie that gcOWfil would remain slow and that
there would be little if any 2nrcease in, per ca,ita income.  However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/30) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more Tu-,pid growth on the order of 4-
5% annually.  The level of investaent was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more directly product:ive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investmen. perfo-Tmance has been excellent; development
expenditures have growa at over 15% a-nnually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting iruvestment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and th2 social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasiAg agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement has increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet. In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        Economic developments during 1979/80 were characterized by declining
output, accelerating inflation, and a weakening in the trade and payments
position. Foodgrain production declined by 13% due to the poor monsoon in
1979, and.to deal with this shortfall, the Government appealed for 110,000
tons of foodgrains assistance. Donors have made available about 60,000 tons
and together with local procurement from less seriously affected parts of
Nepal, this may be sufficient to maintain minimum food requirements.  The
1980 monsoon is reported to have been satisfactory. Inflation accelerated
to about 12% in 1979/80, because of the deterioration in the domestic food
situation, higher import prices and the expansionary effects of the budget
deficit. Government activity slowed in 1979/80; real growth in total expen-
ditures was only 5% compared with 10% in 1978/79, while revenues declined by
3.5% in current terms. However, the economic prospects for 1980/81 are some-
what brighter in view of the improved weather as well as the planned accelera-
tion in government expenditures given in the 1980/81 Budget; GDP growth should
be positive in contrast to its 1% decline in 1979/80.
9.        The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. However, the shortfall in foodgrain production



-3-
coming at a time when Nepal's oil bill was rising has resulted in payments
deficit of US$8 million for the 12 months ending July 1980, and Nepal drew
SDR 10.5 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) from the IMF under the Compen-
satory Financing Facility in September 1980. As of May 1980, foreign exchange
reserves were equivalent to six months of imports.
10.       On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex system of mul-
tiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual exchange
system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from restrictions,
were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and transit with
India were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual exchange rate system,
Nepal maintains a basic rate of N'Rs 12,00 per dollar, with a second, premium
rate applying for all merchandise trade with third countries except for imports
of certain development goods. On. February 21, 1980, the premium rate was
changed from NRs 16.00 per dollar to NRs 14.00 per dollar, but the exemption
was restricted to only imports of petrol and petroleum products, cement and
chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate adjustments involved an apprecia-
tion of about 14% for exports to third countries and an overall appreciation
of about 2% for imports from third countries. But this was partly offset by
(i) withdrawing the 12% duty on Exports of raw jute; and (ii) raising import
duties on a wide range of imports from third countries. However, with the
exception of raw jute exports, earnings in domestic currency from exports to
third countries will decline, leading to a possible shift of some exports to
India. The overall trade balance is likely to be adversely affected by the
recent measures.
11.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. The contribution of
irrigation development has so fair been limited. Only about 23% of irrigable
area is provided with irrigation, and existing facilities are still poorly
utilized. In the past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water
down to the farm level and this has been compounded by inadequate support
services such as extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and
fertilizer and other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent
major irrigation projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are
addressing these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.       In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country's agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inhab-
itants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work. Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated permanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.
13.       Economic policy making has been delayed by the political develop-
ments of the past two years. These activities culminated in the May 1980



- 4 -
referendum which reaffirmed the existing political system, while allowing for
suitable reforms. A Constitutional Commission recently presented its recom-
mendations and a new constitution was formally announced in mid-December,
including direct election of members of parliament. These political activities
slowed down preparation of the Sixth Plan (1980/81-1984/85) and the Plan is
only now undt:going final review. However, the thrust of the Plan, outlined
in an earlier document, was endorsed by members of the Nepal Aid Group at its
January 31, 1980 meeting. It places highest priority on developing agriculture,
including revitalization of Hill food production to meet local requirements.
At the same time, since land holdings in the Hills are too small to generate
much more than subsistence needs, programs will be started to encourage diver-
sification into other activities such as small-scale and cottage industries
to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai, the strategy is to continue efforts
to realize the Terai's considerable potential for increasing production of
foodgrains and cash crops. The irrigation infrastructure is to be more fully
utilized and improvements to extension services and associated inputs concen-
trated on those areas with irrigation facilities. Reafforestation programs
are given priority in order to provide fuelwood and fodder as well as to reduce
soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attention, Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in productiv-
ity. The Government's strategy recognises that the approach must be selective
since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-term impact
on manpower development but divert resources away from activities more directly
and immediately related to production. Increasing foodgrains production will
meet the major need of improved nutrition. Better and more readily available
supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other needs, while also
freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic health facilities
are to be expanded through integrated community health posts, while in educa-
tion, stress is placed on improving the quality of primary and adult vocational
education. Family planning programs are to be stepped up. The other basic
need to be met in rural areas is improved transport, and the Sixth Plan will
include programs to improve trails, tracks, and suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to achieve more rapid and sustained growth, the productive
capacity of its economy will need to be broadened and strengthened since the
present extreme dependence on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth
potential to about 4% per year. Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term
potential for increased foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed
to reduce its capital intensity, strengthen linkages with other local indus-
tries and extend its benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also
offers some possibilities, but neither it nor tourism will ever be substantial
generators of employment. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop
its industrial sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly
selective basis in view of the multiplicity and complexity of the constraints
to industrial development, including the lack of natural resources and a
skilled labor force, as well as Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked



-5-
position. Public enterprises need to operate more efficiently, village and
cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this, joint ventures with
India, for example, as in cement production, may be attractive. In support
of these endeavors, the preconditions for industrialization will need to
be established in the near futura. These include providing financial incen-
tives, technical and marketing services, and the upgrading of manpower skills
in the areas where Nepal may hava a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low degree
of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenue grew at 16% a
year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, increasing from 5% of GDP
to about 9% during this period. Over the same period, the Government was able
to maintain savings on current account in excess of 2% of GDP, a good achieve-
ment for a country in Nepal's economic position. However, this excellent
record is now in jeopardy. Political developments led to difficulties in
collecting income and land taxes in 1978/79, but this was more than offset
by increased collections from other sources. However, custom duties, which
generate about one-third of total revenues, were lowered in the 1979/80
budget contributing to the 3.5% decline in overall revenues in that year. To
reverse the deterioration, the 1980/81 budget raised various taxes including
import duties, sales tax, income tax Dn private businesses, tourist taxes
(hotel and airport taxes, and visa fees), and fees for extraction of forest
products. These measures are expected to generate revenues equal to about
13% of total 1979/80 revenues wiich, together with better implementation of
existing taxes, should be sufficient for overall revenues to exceed 9% of GDP
in 1980/81.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign iinancing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about NRs 10 billion or over
$800 million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225
million annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79.
However, even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Govern-
ment with sufficient resources :o meet increasing consumption demands. Addi-
tional aid, either through finanlcing a higher proportion of total project
costs or in the form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support
to meet pressing recurrent expeaditure requirements, particularly in the
social sectors. The Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976 to assist in the
overall coordination of financial and technical assistance efforts. The
Group has met three times at plenary meetings under the Chairmanship of the
Bank to discuss overall external assistance needs as well as at the local
level in Kathmandu to discuss and coordinate strategy. At the latest plenary
meeting, which was held in Paris on January 31, 1980, and was attended by
representatives from eight countries and six international organizations,
Nepal received aid indications exceeding US$200 million equivalent.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over
25% annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included
in the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being



- 6 -
grants. As of December 31, 1979, official foreign debt outstanding was only
$125 million, of which $106 million was due to multilateral agencies. These
loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of
total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments were
only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of
goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 M equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 23 additional
credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal to US$271.1
M equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's many development needs,
this assistance has been for projects in a wide variety of sectors. Six of
these sectors account for 83% of IDA credits by amount: irrigation (US$78.5 M
for 6 projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 M for 3 projects), power
(US$40.8 M for 1 project); telecommunications (US$21.7 M for 3 projects);
highways (US$19.2 M for 2 projects); and rural development (US$19.0 M for 2
projects). The remaining US$45.1 M of IDA assistance is for one project in
each of the areas of settlement, technical education, tourism, technical
assistance, forestry, industrial development financing, and grain storage. A
credit for Agricultural Extension and Research (US$17.5 M) is being presented
to the Executive Directors simultaneously with the Hill Food Production Project.
The proposed credit would be the fourth in FY81, bringing the total amount of
IDA assistance to Nepal to US$279.1 M equivalent, net of cancellations. No
Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal
(US$3.1 M) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations as of October 31, 1980, and notes
on the execution of ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays in the
implementation of these projects, particularly during the initial periods.
These delays have been largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial
capabilities. In order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, con-
siderable technical assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, including
our Resident Mission in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the rate of
disbursements is being realized. During FY80, US$22.6 M equivalent were dis-
bursed compared to US$42.8 M equivalent disbursed during the entire previous
nine years.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has increased steadily, but still remains
at a modest level compared to the country's need for external assistance. The
international community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic
development and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The
main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implementa-
tion. The Bank is assisting the Government in project preparation through the
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP) and by acting as Executing
Agency for a number of technical assistance projects financed by UNDP. The
Bank Group has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its
role in organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).



- 7 -
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly those
connecting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in cottage industry, technical education, cash crops
and power is under way.
PART III - TRE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture is the key sector for Nepal's economic development:
farm production and related activities contribute more than 60% of GDP, pro-
vide almost 90% of employment and about 75% of merchandise exports, mostly
foodgrains2 jute and oilseed. Only about one sixth of Nepal's gross area of
141,000 km is cultivable. Foodgrains account for about 90% of cropped area,
rice being the most important (50%), followed by maize, wheat, other cereals
and pulses. The rest of the cropped area is under oilseeds, jute, potato,
tobacco, sugarcane and horticultural crops. Growth of agricultural production
(average 1.1% per year 1970-77), which is largely determined by foodgrain
performance, has not kept up with population growth. Growth has primarily
come from area expansion since yields have largely stagnated (para 11).
23.       The Government has had l:o moderate its earlier approach to regional
specialization according to comparative advantage (foodgrains in Terai vs.
horticulture, tea and livestock in Hills) in view of the need for an adequate
foodbase in the Hills. The role 3f the Terai will continue to be the genera-
tion of domestic and exportable f3odgrain surpluses as a resource for further
development. Since area expansion is limited in the Terai, emphasis will be
given to increasing yields, mainly by an expansion and upgrading of existing
irrigation infrastructure and inputs. Initial results from the IDA-assisted
Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) indicate that substantial yield
improvements can be expected from improved irrigation water supply combined
with increased agricultural inputs and effective extension services.
Agricultural Institutions
24.       Four major Ministries eeal with agriculture:  the Ministry of Food
and Agriculture (MFA); the Ministry of Forest; the Ministry of Land Reform;
and the Ministry of Water Resources. MFA includes the Department of Agricul-
ture (DA) which is in charge of promoting production through extension,
training and research. MFA also has overall responsibility for a number of
public sector corporations which include the Agricultural Inputs Corporation,
the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Nepal Food Corpora-
tion. In general, like many other Government agencies, agricultural institu-
tions suffer from lack of trained staff.
25.       The Department of Agri:ulture (DA), located in the Ministry of Food
and Agriculture (MFA), is respon3ible for agriculture development, research,
and provision of extension services. The extension services are organized on
a regional basis under a Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA), with activ-
ities directed at the district level by a District Agricultural Development



- 8 -
Officer (DADO), who is in turn assisted by Assistant Agriculture Development
Officers, Junior Technicians, Junior Technical Assistants, and Agriculture
Assistants at the farm level. This program, which is essentially a training
and visit system, is used both in the Hills and the Terai. A separate Depart-
ment of Livestock and Animal Health has recently been formed to assume devel-
opmental and extension responsibilities for the livestock subsector. The
organization of its services has not yet been completed, but are expected to
parallel that of the DA. In the Hills, it is the intention of the Government
to concentrate activities for the organizations involved in agriculture, live-
stock, credit, cooperatives, input supply and marketing at the Agricultural
Service Centers (ASC). Each ASC is expected to serve about four to six village
panchayats covering about 200 sq km and an average of 7,000 farm families.
26.       Agricultural Credit.  The major source of institutional credit is
the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), established in 1973. It
is expected to provide the overall credit requirements of agriculture and
agro-based industries, and ensure effective mobilization of rural savings.
The Sajha (cooperative) program provides short term production credit to its
members using funds made available by ADBN. More recently, commercial banks
have also become involved in rural credit.
27.       ADBN provides loans to individuals, companies, and institutions
engaged in agricultural production. ADBN's standard terms are 18 months for
short term loans with a 14% interest rate per annum, 7 years for medium term
loans at 11% interest rate per annum, and 20 years for long term loans with an
8% interest rate per annum. Rediscount facilities available to ADBN through
the Rastra (Central) Bank provide 6% spread, which is considered sufficient
to cover operating and administrative costs. Total lending operations of the
ADBN have increased substantially, rising from NRs 76 million in FY1973/74 to
NRs 262 million in FY1977/78. Most farmers are still reluctant to approach
institutional agencies for credit, mainly due to lengthy and complicated pro-
cedures for borrowing, and difficulties in establishing collateral for loans.
Absence of technical know-how in commercial banks is a factor restricting
expansion of their lending. Technical assistance would be provided under the
proposed Agricultural Extension and Research Project to review the working of
ADBN and make recommendations for meeting its current and long-term financial
and managerial technical assistance needs. Additional assistance is also
expected to be provided to ADBN by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the Asian Development Bank under recently approved projects
(Small Farmers Development Project and Fourth Agricultural Credit, respectively).
28.       Cooperatives.  The cooperative (Sajha) development program was intro-
duced in early 1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local
savings, and to link economic development with decentralization at the local
level. Sajhas provide credit, agricultural inputs, marketing facilities, and
some basic consumer goods (diesel oil, kerosene, course cloth, salt, rice and
sugar).  Each Sajha serves on average three to four panchayats. Further, at
the village level, they also act as the local agent of the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation.
29.       Agricultural Inputs.  The Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC),
established in its present form in 1975/76, is responsible for the supply of



- 9 -
inputs to farmers. Its functions [nclude: (a) importation and distribution
of chemical fertilizers and maintenance of stock; (b) collection, processing,
storage and distribution of improved seeds and assistance to DA in conducting
seed multiplication programs through contract growers; (c) procurement and
distribution of pesticides; and (d) distribution of locally manufactured
agricultural tools and implements as well as importation and distribution of
agricultural machinery. AIC's sales of inputs in 1978 are estimated at 54,000
tons of fertilizer, 2,520 tons of improved seeds, pesticides costing NRs 1.9
million and agricultural implements costing NRs 2.6 million.
30.       Nepal does not manufacture chemical fertilizer and depends entirely
on imports, which are financed either by bilateral aid (about two-thirds in
1979/80) or by direct purchase (about one-third). Fertilizer imports are
generally delivered through Calcutta Port (India) and transported by road and
train to the Indian/Nepalese border. Internal distribution is then either by
road or, in the Hills and Mountair,s, by mules and porters. The transportation
costs to some of the more remote areas exceed the actual cost of fertilizer.
The total national consumption of fertilizers in 1977/78 was about 54,000 tons
which is about 6 kgs of nutrients per cropped ha. This is one of the lowest
application rates in the world and compares with levels of consumption in
India of about 25-30 kg nutrients per ha.
31.       In keeping with other countries in the region, HMGN subsidizes the
cost of fertilizers to farmers. The amount of this subsidy effectively depends
on the prevailing retail price in India, as any price differential would result
in flows of fertilizer across the border. As a matter of policy, the Government
adopts a uniform price throughout the country, regardless of transportation
costs. The present sale price of urea to farmers is NRs 3,000 (US$250) per ton
which corresponds to the price prevailing in India. This covers roughly two
thirds of the average total cost of fertilizer c.i.f. retail sales points, and
results in an average subsidy to farmers of NRs 1,543 (US$129) per ton. This
subsidy amounts to some 34% of the current retail price of urea and is lower
than subsidies in Bangladesh (40%) and Pakistan (35-40%) where transportation
costs are much lower. The Government provides AIC with either the foreign
exchange to purchase the fertilizers or the fertilizer received under bilateral
assistance. AIC returns the net proceeds of its fertilizer sales to the
Government. AIC is not usually involved in retailing except in some remote
Hill areas. Fertilizer is sold nostly through cooperatives (Sajha) or private
dealers where cooperatives do not: exist.
32.       Agricultural Marketing.  The main institutions involved in agricul-
tural marketing are: (a) The Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), whose main respon-
sibility is to distribute foodgrains to food deficit Hill districts; (b) MFA's
Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department, whose role is to collect
socio-economic and price data, analyze trade patterns, and establish marketing
systems, particularly in the Hills; and (c) the rice export companies which
are quasi-governmental agencies, purchasing paddy either directly from farmers
or through Sajha cooperatives. The Government has recently liberalized the
export of foodgrains, and plans to place control of public sector domestic and
export trading in NFC and strengthen it so that it may be better able to
promote Government foodgrain policies. An IDA-assisted grain storage project
(Credit No. 1062-NEP) is assisting the Government in this effort.



- 10 -
Hill Agriculture
33.       Because of very rugged topography, arable land in the Hills is
limited to valley bottom land and to slopes which have been terraced; these
dry upland terraces, accounting for about 75% of the total arable land in the
Hills, have minimal irrigation potential.  Maize, wheat, mille: and barley,
and, at higher elevation, potatoes are the principal crops. While the Hills
account for only about one-third of Nepal's total arable land, they must sup-
port two-thirds of the population. Population density in the Hills exceeds
13 persons per ha of cultivated land, compared to about less than six persons
per ha in the Terai.
34.       In 1971, the average holding size in Nepal was 0.94 ha per family
but this average masks considerable variations as 81% of families in the
Hills own less than 1 ha, compared with 53% in the Terai. In 1962, the
average farm holding of a household in the Hills was 0.56 ha; in 1976, this
was estimated at less than 0.5 ha, compared to about 1.7 ha average in the
Terai. Each holding, particularly in the Hills, is subdivided into plots of
smaller sizes covering several microclimatic zones, thus reducing risks con-
sequent on vagaries of weather, changes in the courses of rivers and streams,
and landslides. Inheritance continues to decrease land holding size at each
succeeding generation. The average cropping intensity is about 150%.
35.       During the past decade, farm family income levels have been main-
tained by increasing the area under cultivation. While areas of forest that
can be converted into productive farmland remain in the Terai, virtually no
such reserve is left in the Hills and Mountains. The shortage of good land
in the Hills increasingly forces the cultivation of steep or unstable slopes
with consequent low yields and increasing erosion. The already massive
erosion caused by natural forces is further accelerated by overgrazing
of pasture lands, defoliation for livestock fodder and destruction of
forests in the search for firewood and timber.
36.       In general, the overall picture is one of growing dependence of
the Hills on foodgrains from the Terai. In 1976, it was estimated that only
eight of the fifty five Hill and Mountain districts showed a food surplus.
Zonal differences in production of major food crops are considerable, and
when translated into terms of caloric requirements for minimum subsistence, I/
the average family in the Mountains now has enough food for about 190 days;
in the Hills, for 225 days; and in the Terai, for 540 days. The declining
potential of the Hill and Mountain areas to provide subsistence for its
residents is reflected in Nepal's high infant mortality rates (estimated at
over 150/1,000 live births), a high child mortality rate between the ages
1-4 (estimated 39/1,000) and a general lowered resistance to disease.
37.       Farming methods are largely traditional and fertility is maintained
by the use of animal manures and compost. The application of chemical fer-
tilizer is extremely low as farms are small and owners generally poor and
not considered creditworthy; often fertilizer is in short supply. Additional
1/   About 2,000 calories per day for an adult.



- 11 -
output produced through use of fertilizer is generally consumed within the
family and does not enter the market. Livestock, mainly cattle and buffalo,
but also goats, pigs and poultry, are kept as sources of milk and meat, draught
power and manure. Mainly, because of indifferent genetic stock and poor
feeding, productivity of these animals is low. In general, little cash trade
is associated with agricultural production and, among farmers in isolated
villages located at higher altituces, barter is common. Some cash income,
however, is derived from the sale of animals and animal products, including
milk, eggs and ghee. Off-farm payments from porterage, army pensions or from
seasonal employment in the Terai or North India play an important role in food
deficit areas.
Bank Group Support to Hill AgricuLture
38.       Consistent with the Government's agricultural development strategy,
Bank Group support to the agricull:ural sector has focused on development of
large-scale irrigation schemes in the Terai and rural development and forestry
programs in the Hills. The Bank Group is at present involved in two ongoing
rural development projects in the Hills. The first project (Credit No. 617-NEP,
US$8.0 million equivalent) became effective in July 1976 and is assisting with
the development of two north central Hill districts of Rasuwa and Nuwakot.
Progress on the multi-component project has been satisfactory. The second
project (Credit No. 719-NEP, U$11.0 million equivalent) became effective in
January 1980 and is assisting with the development of three far western Hill
districts of Darchula, Baitadi and Dandeldhura. Due to the extreme remoteness
of the project area, the initial stages are proceeding very slowly and in
August 1980, the area suffered a severe earthquake. Programs included under
the project for construction of tracks, bridges, administrative buildings,
health posts, schools, and village water supply may be accelerated as part
of the reconstruction efforts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the DA, with assistance from
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The project would build on and benefit
from an earlier startup project I'Gandaki Anchal Agricultural Development
Project) which was supported by l:he Federal Republic of Germany, and which
covered the entire Gandaki Zone and several additional districts in Dhaulagiri
Zone. The project was appraised in May/June 1980. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C., in December 1980. The Nepalese delegation was led by
Dr. T.N. Pant, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. A report
entitled "Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report - Hill Food Production Project"
(Report No. 3136-NEP, dated January 5, 1981) is being circulated to the
Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
40.       The project aims to increase food production in four western Hill
districts of Gorkha, Lamjung, Syanja and Tanahu (Map 15049). As project area
farmers do not have the means to invest in costly agricultural inputs, the
project would provide farmers with appropriate advice and increased support



- 12 -
services for undertaking low-cost farming practices selected to have an
immediate impact on food production, increased availability of livestock
feed, and better animal health.
Project Description
41.       The main components of the project are:
(a) construction of 20 Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs);
(b) improving agricultural extension and livestock services
through provision of staff;
(c) strengthening of ADBN, AIC, and cooperatives by providing
training for staff;
(d) provision of fertilizer;
(e) improvement to marketing, through introduction of regular
market days;
(f) development and improvement of irrigation service to about
3,000 ha of land;
(g) upgrading of about 70 km of trails and construction of
about 34 bridges to facilitate movement of agricultural
inputs; and
(h) establishment of a monitoring and evaluation program.
42.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would be vested
in the MFA, with the Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA), Western Region,
overseeing day-to-day implementation through the already established district
agricultural and livestock services. The project would be implemented accord-
ing to standard procedures of Government as they apply to planning, approval,
budgeting procedures and the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance. In
recognition of the national shortage of trained agriculture staff, the project
is designed to be implemented with a minimum of additional staff. The Govern-
ment would establish permanent staffing positions for the incremental agricul-
ture and livestock extension staff required for the project on a schedule
satisfactory to the Association and employ additional staff as and when needed
to fill such positions (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment (DCA).
43.       Regional and district coordinating committees would coordinate proj-
ect activities undertaken through the various agencies. A Regional Coordinat-
ing Committee (RCC) would be established to conduct planning and implementa-
tion of project activities, to identify and resolve problems, and to ensure
coordination with the respective District Development Plans (DDP); members
would include the RDA, representatives of the ADBN, AIC, Department of Coop-
eratives and NFC, the regional head of the Ministry of Local Development, and
the four Chief District Officers (Section 3.03(a) of the draft DCA). District
Coordinating Committees (DCC), which have already been established in each



- 13 -
district, would coordinate activities of all Government agencies operating at
the district level; each DCC would include the respective Chairman of the
District Panchayat and DADO and the district heads of AIC, ADBN, and the
District Technical Office (Section 3.03(b) of the draft DCA). Each DCC in the
project area would review the project activities in their respective district
and incorporate them in the agreed DDP.
44.       A full-time Project Coordinator (PC) would be appointed by April 30,
1981, with qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.02 of the draft DCA), Teporting directly to the RDA. The PC would
be assisted by two program officers (one each for agriculture and livestock)
and a Disbursement Unit and a Monitoring Unit. The PC would supervise the
four DADOs and assist in the preparation of the agriculture and livestock
sections of the respective DDP. lThe PC, in his capacity as Secretary to RCC,
would assemble the DDPs for review and endorsement by the RCC, and would
monitor the budgetary process for each implementing agency's project activi-
ties. The agriculture and livestock sections of each DDP would be furnished
to the Association by May 15 of each year for review and comment (Section 3.06
of the draft DCA). The PC would also have the responsibility of drawing
project implementation and policy disputes and conflicts which could not be
reconciled at the district level l:o the attention of the RCC. The PC would
prepare the withdrawal requests for disbursements from the IDA credit.
45.       Agricultural Service Centers (ASC) have been found to be effective
as focal points for promoting development activities in remote areas. These
centers provide offices and staff housing for the agriculture, livestock, coop-
erative and credit organizations, and storage for agricultural inputs and
surplus production. Twenty ASCs would be established at points of high pop-
ulation density and agricultural activity; sites have already been selected.
The Government would provide sufficient land (Section 3.11 of the draft DCA),
and would construct the ASCs at sites satisfactory to the Association (Annex
to Schedule 2 of the draft DCA).
46.       Agricultural Extension and Livestock and Animal Health Services
would be strengthened and intensified. The agricultural extension services
would be improved through staff training and regular supervision. The DADO,
assisted by an Assistant Agriculture Development Officer, would provide tech-
nical guidance to the Junior Technicians in charge of each ASC and assist in
organizing the training sessions for the Junior Technical Assistants and
Agricultural Assistants. In the initial stage, the extension message would
be simple, concentrating on the most important aspects of crop cultivation
which involve low cost measures such as seed selection, better use of compost,
weed control and crop care. At a later stage, use of inputs and more sophis-
ticated cropping systems would be recommended. Livestock services would
be strengthened by establishing and staffing of a small veterinary dispensary
at each ASC and by upgrading of the livestock extension programs. Emphasis
would be placed on immunizing bu:ffalo and cattle against rinderpest and
hemorhagic septicema and providing anthelmics for the treatment of parasites.
By virtue of the simplicity of the techniques, both extension programs do not
require highly trained staff. A,laptive research to validate techniques devel-
oped at research stations would be conducted by small teams under the control
of the RDA, with assistance provided by technical experts (para 51 below).
Trials, including systematic testing in farmers' fields, would also be super-
vised by the extension staff.



- 14 -
Infrastructure
47.       Minor gravity irrigation systems on about 3,000 ha would be improved,
converting seasonal systems to perennial irrigation service and upgrading some
rainfed land. The works would involve linking of irrigable areas to a perm-
anent water source by means of main canal and construction of l headwork with
simple but permanent intakes. These works would be carried out by the Farm
Irrigation and Water Utilization Division of the DA, costing an average
NRs 10,000/ha of improved or irrigated land. To enable year-round access to
the project area, about 70 km of trails (or 25% of the total length) would
be upgraded and 30 medium to small and 4 major bridges would be constructed.
The District Technical Offices would supervise the construction of trails and
bridges, with the Ministry of Local Development overseeing the works for the
major bridges.
Inputs and Marketing
48.       While for the most part, the extension programs would involve low-
cost measures, use of fertilizer and other inputs would be increased. To
ensure a reliable flow of fertilizer to the country and therefore to the proj-
ect area, funds have been included in the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (being presented simultaneously with the Hill Food Production Project)
to assist in the preparation of a suitable national fertilizer strategy and
program. it is expected such a program would involve the AIC, ADBN, and the
Sajha, and make recommendations for institutional, procurement, distribution,
storage, financing, and credit improvements and for technical assistance and
training needs. Pending the implementation of such a program, the proposed
project would finance two years of total fertilizer needs of the project area,
estimated at about 3,200 metric tons in total. The Government would ensure
that the fertilizer financed under the project would be utilized exclusively in
the project districts (Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA).
49.       AIC would procure this fertilizer and sell it in the project area
through its normal procedures. Project area farmers would purchase the fertil-
izer for cash or on credit obtained through the credit facilities of the ADBN
or the Sajha. An ADBN loan assistant would be posted at each ASC (Section 3.04
of the draft DCA) to assist in reaching the potential clients. The Government
would review annually with the Association the credit needs of farmers in the
project area (Section 3.07(b) of the draft DCA), and would provide adequate
funds to ADBN to meet these needs (Section 3.07(c) of the draft DCA). The
project would also support training of staff for the AIC and ADBN, and the
managers of the Sajha serving the project area.
50.       To reduce post harvest price depression, a marketing program would
be introduced in the second year of the project. A regular weekly market
would be held at each ASC at which Sajha and the NFC would purchase grains.
It is expected that these agencies would purchase a minimum of 5% of project-
generated grain production in the second year of the project, increasing to
10% in the third year and thereafter. The grains would be stored within
project area for resale at the markets when needed. A plan for these market-
ing programs, satisfactory to the Association, would be furnished to the
Association by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.08 of the draft DCA). Credit to the
Sajha and NFC for these activities would be arranged through ADBN under
existing facilities.



- 15 -
Technical Assistance and Training
51.       To strengthen the implementation capacity of various project agen-
cies, the Government is arranging for technical assistance support through a
UNDP grant program, with the World Bank expected to be executing agency.
Assistance would be provided in the field of agronomy and field experimenta-
tion (44 man-months), extension training and communication (20 man-months)
and identification and design of minor irrigation schemes (20 man-months).
Assistance would also be made available to the PC in monitoring and project
evaluation (6 man-months). Foreign training would be provided for Sajha
and MFA staff serving in the project area. The Government would, by April
30, 1981, make arrangements satisiactory to the Association for the provision
of funds for these technical assistance and training programs (Section 3.01(b)
of the draft DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.       Monitoring of project implementation in each district would be con-
ducted on a day-to-day basis by the respective DADO. Semi-annual progress
reports would be prepared by each DADO, consolidated by PC, and forwarded by
RDA to the Association.  The PC wDuld be aided by the Monitoring Unit attached
to his office. Evaluation of the impact of the project on overall food pro-
duction would involve the carrying out of a baseline survey and annual col-
lection of data in selected project areas. This is expected to be carried out
by the Agriculture Projects Service Center under the direction of the Director
General of Agriculture (MFA). Technical assistance would be provided to help
develop procedures for monitoring and for analysis and interpretation of
data.
Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated at US$9.7 M equivalent, includ-
ing contingencies and a negligible amount of taxes and duties. The cost
estimates are updated to August 1980 prices and include physical contingencies
of 15% for civil works. Price contingencies have been calculated using price
increases of 9% and 8% per annum for 1981 and 1982, respectively, and 7% per
annum thereafter. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$3.0 M equiva-
lent or about 30% of total project cost. The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 M
equivalent would cover all foreign exchange costs (excluding the financing for
technical assistance to be provided by UNDP) and about US$5.75 M equivalent of
local costs, amounting to 82% of total project cost. Given Nepal's significant
progress in mobilizing domestic resources for development and its extreme
poverty, local cost financing is considered appropriate (para 17). UNDP has
agreed in principle to provide US$0.85 M equivalent and the Government would
contribute the balance of US$0.85 M equivalent or about 9% of total project
cost. The cost of individual foreign consultants' services is based on UNDP
scales, with the overall average cost of consultants' services of about
US$7,700 per man-month, including benefits, overheads, and travel.
54.       Procurement.  Procurement of fertilizer, equipment, furniture and
vehicles involving contracts abDve US$100,000 (for an estimated total of about



- 16 -
US$1.2 M 1/) would be on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Orders for goods which cannot be bulked
into packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more (estimated total of about US$0.3
M 1/) would be purchased under Government local tender procedures, satisfactory
to the Association. Because of the remoteness of the project area and small
size of most works, it would not be practical to group civil works for ICB or
local competitive bidding. Consequently, civil works for trails and bridges,
minor irrigation and ASCs (for an estimated total of about US$4.1 M 1/) would
be undertaken by the ministry concerned, using local labor, or by local con-
tractors in accordance with Government local procurement procedures, satis-
factory to the Association.
55.       Disbursement.  Disbursement of funds would be on the following basis:
(i) 95% of expenditures for civil works carried out either by contract or by
force account; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported fertil-
izer; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported, equipment,
furniture and vehicles and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
locally manufactured goods and 80% of local expenditure for goods procured
locally; (iv) 55% of local expenditures for salaries and allowances of staff
engaged in the project in agriculture, animal health and minor irrigation, and
ADBN staff posted to the ASCS, equivalent to 95% of incremental costs; (v) 95%
of project operating costs for agriculture, animal health and minor irrigation
components; and (vi) 95% of expenditures for local training. Disbursement
against civil works carried out by force account and against categories (iv),
(v), and (vi) above would be made against statements of expenditure. The
documentation for such expenditures would be retained by the Government
and made available for inspection by IDA representatives during the course of
project supervision. Requests for disbursement against other items would be
fully documented.
56.       The Government would cause participating ministries and agencies
to establish and maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with
sound accounting practices; the Government would ensure that these accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor, satisfactory to the
Association, and furnished to the Association not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(a) and (c) of the draft DCA). The
documents evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested on the basis of statements of expenditure would be retained until
one year after the closing date (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA).
Production and Farm Incomes
57.       At full development in 1990, project generated production of the
main crops in the project area is expected to increase by 34,300 tons to
197,700 tons and net farm incomes would improve by about 20-26%. Benefits are
expected to be achieved mainly through yield improvements, ranging from 20-45%
obtained by about 50% of the farmers in the project area. As all project
districts are classified as food deficit areas, most of the increased crop
1/   Base cost, excluding price and physical contingencies.



- 17 -
production would either be consumed on the farm or marketed within the dis-
trict. There are good road connections in Syanja district, where most of the
incremental animal production is expected to occur. No marketing constraints
are foreseen for any incremental production resulting from the project.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The primary benefit of the project would be the increased produc-
tion of food crops. It is expected that nearly one-half of the 147,000 farm
families in the project area would participate in the project. Of these some
76,000 families, about 8,000 small farm families (with holdings of up to 0.4
ha) are expected to increase their production to be able to meet minimum
subsistence levels and 18,000 medium size farm families (with holdings above
0.4 ha) to generate additional foodgrain surpluses. The remaining 50,000 small
farm families are expected to increase food production by about 30%, but due
to the small size of farm, this would not be sufficient to attain full sub-
sistence levels. Apart from also improving soil fertility, the promotion of
fodder legumes would increase the supply of animal feed and thus reduce over-
grazing and consequent erosion. The improvement of the irrigation schemes
would reduce their susceptibility to damage from weather and landslides and
thereby reduce requirements for repair and maintenance. Major time savings
should also accrue from the improvement of trails and construction of bridges.
Construction activities would gernerate 4 M man-days of employment.
59.       Discounting the econom:.c costs and the quantifiable benefits over
a 20 year period, the economic rate of return for the project as a whole is
estimated at 58%. The economic ^ate of return for the irrigation component
is 16%. Sensitivity tests indicate that, under a series of adverse assump-
tions, the project would remain viable; farm input or investment costs would
have to increase by over 277% anl 477% respectively or yields drop from
expected levels by 50% before the rate of return drops below 12%.
60.       In view of the remoteness of the project area, there is a risk
that the Government would not be able to undertake all components effectively
and that the interrelated services would not be provided. The project is,
therefore, designed around the use of the ASCs, which have been found to be
an effective organizational system to marshal and direct services in remote
areas. Staff accommodation and allowances would be included as incentives
for service in the field. To minimize the risk that lack of communications
and means of transportation would adversely affect farmers' participation in
the project, activities would be decentralized to the ASCs located throughout
the project area. In addition, tracks and trails would be improved to
facilitate delivery of inputs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Nepal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. There are no special conditions of effectiveness.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
January 14, 1981
Attachments



- 19 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                           Page lot 5  ages
NEPAL - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                       g        o            g
NEPAL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVPGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.                                                         -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOITAL            140. 8                                 MOSr RECENT            LOW INCOME            MIDDLE IwCOHE
AGRICiITlRAL       40. 1              1960  /b    1970 /b ERTDATE lb          ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA A PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     50.0         70.0     130.0               212.4                 1114.7
ICNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOC-GJMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        5.0         15.0      I.0                166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        9.3         11.4       13.6
URBAN PQPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3. 1           3.9        4.8                20.8                   39. 1
POPIRATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION ON YEAB 2000 (MILLIONS)                          21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           46.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. I;N.                        66.0         81.0       97.0               193.2                 376. 1
PER SQ. FM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.0          286.0     339.0                409.6                2350.4
POPUIAI 70h AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.3         42.0       42.4                42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                           57.0         55.0      54.6                 55.0                  56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          3.0        3.0                 3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1. 1         2.0        2.2                 2.2                    2.4
URBAN                                6.5          4.3        5.0                 3.9                    4.1
CRUDE NIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.0         45.0       45.0                37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       29.0         23.0       21.0                14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          3.0        3.2                 2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         37.4      138.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            0.7        4. 3lc             15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           106.0        101.0       91.0               101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     93.0         96.0      91.0                 92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAtIS PER DAY)           50.0         51.0       48.0                49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANiMAL AND PULSE          9.0          9.0        9.0                12.0                  18.8
CHItD (AIES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       35.0         27.0       23.0                17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0           41.0       43.0                50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOISAND)                               ..        152.0/d       ..                  ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          2.0        9. 0               30.2                  42.4
URBAN                                 ..         53.0       81.0                66.0                  62.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        5.0                20.0                  29.7
ACCEUS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPLLATIONJ
TOTAL                                 ..          1. 0       1. 0               17. 7                 52.8
URBAN                                            14.0       14.0                71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                  42.4
P0FULATI,N PER PHYSICIAN           72000.0      49770. O/e :5207.O/e            6322.7                4120.1
PIPULAI10N PER NURSING PERSON           ..      68320.0/e 71222.0               9459.0                2213.6
PO'!ll,ATrON PEP HOSPITAL BED
IOCAL                             8060.0       6750.0    6289.0               1758.4                 819.4
I,RBAN                                ..           ..         .                   ...
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AMlISIStON  PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..                  ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AIETRACE SIZC OF HOUSEHvLD
TUTAL                                 ..          5.5
US(SAN                               5.4           ..
RSRAL                                 ..           ..
AVhPACE "CR000P CF PERSONS PER ROOM
IOTAL                                 ..          ..
UTSB AN                              2.0           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCEUS TC ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF TO Eli lICS )
59543,                                . .          ..         .                    ..
URBAN                               30.2           ..
ROOM.                                 . .          ..        -..



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABL,E 3A                                                     P g ? o                ae
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS TDATA SHEET                              Page  2  of  5  pages
NEPAL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATF)-
MoST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  10.0         26.0       71.0                80.9                  98.6
MALE                  19.0         44.0      108.0                94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       32.0                66. 7                  97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0          9.0      14.0                 26.6                  55.5
MALE                  11.0         15.0       23.0                34.8                  60.7
FPMALE                 2.0          3.0        1. 0               18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL EiNROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   0. 2          6.0       22. 0/f              9.9                   13. 7
PUPIL-TEACHR RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         22.0      31.0                 41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                           32.0         21.0      28.0                 20.5                  28.5
ADUJLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9. 0/R      14.3       19. 2               40. 9                 85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAID
POPULATION                           0.2          0.4        ..                  1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          5.0      12.0                 25.8                 118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                  2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.8          2.0        8. 0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                  ..                   4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4813.2       5566.2    6535.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.3         40. 3     39.0                 29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.6         93.9      93.0                 70.5                  51.9
INDUS1RY (PERCENT)                   2.0          2.1        2.0                11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50.0         48. 7      48.3                37.9                  39. 1
MALE                                  59.8         58.3       58.1                51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                                40.2         39.2      38.5                 23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0. 9         0.9        0.9                 1.2                    1. 1
INCOMF DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF FOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      95.0                107.98
RURAL                                 ..          ..       45.0                 86.5                 192. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..       41. 0                  .                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      55.0                 46.2
RURAI                                               '       61.0                51.7                  33.2
NOt available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among tho indicators depends on availabflity of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; sod for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Government programs only;  /d 1971-73;  /e Personnel in government services only;  /f Upper secondary
(grade 8-10) only; /g 1962.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-21 -ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DtFiNIiTtONf OF SOCIAL  MitAChOtS
9oe~ttrAw  ,, tihre.. at  ae  rae  fc. sources generall  lodged the soa  aurborit-o sod reliable, to should also to o-od tha  rhoyeano  be   te-1
narroalycomar bleb'aso  the lark of aedrdod dofinrtiron   aod co.noPIe used by differeor c-- -tle  in coil rctig ore earn.  Tb. darnare
iblm,ueu   ndescrbe ord-ora      ago1trds, idlcas  treds, seA utasecreet- ceria  flin  diffiere                  b....eas-I
acl-uoclaflittisa).  In rh  refernc   grop dar  rho accsse  ar  p                       -nainoigbtod arlhobeof   orte ,n eah lodicaic- acd ohIo  ccly yhbcc
of ... indicator eta .s among.. the coctty sod .... .... grops.
LAND0 AREA (tbo...srd mq.km.)                                                                   rolsioPer  MEryTila-  roucir  once  by ons   rt ico   phI-
Tore1 - ToeI ea..c   area  cosprisieg  landspsadiln srem                                        eiia.. qalifiad iros reic-1 stood   at -Ji-ert5y lens.1
Eaucpl - t"'ttat  of ngr-out-o   ara- ee  ta-P cem.ily or  srarely                   Pcuair  e    usngiro   Populr ccodlcided by rsbe  of  .r.cric e
fo   oy,parure., mrket end hircIho g-rdeo.u.       r  lie fallow; i97: data.           sae   edfetiTrdao  uss    rcIcaI                   arI  .  o   ssIsoIure 
Farelrlnepar lne ISai td - 1totl   os.en   ua       oultc    rrt
GNP? Pit CAPITA fuss)   GNF P-pe  cspitetmae   riatnmrkt prices  cal-                             ceenq    ad  url   dlcdd  ythepseofenubrcbcti                              ed
culateci by  am .c.cr   co aorc  as World rakhea   fS-79 besia);  *l.9vilbei6pbi0r,pissreae   o  soisias    beIta  ad  s
by at  asa  cn  phyalci-o  ia-bltsbae-rs PIcodn   pincipally   I. curdill.
fiililitSlTlt  I  CPIO- A-iua  ccouaprioo cf                     ..e.ia    engy (-re       ap  seeoreb        dceAs.  Pua -   cpiaa.bsee, irtlode bslr  sd   edca
ard lieite.~ ptroleum, osrar1 gs.  erd hydr-,  - -les  sod geothrma   dee-                      rerp   no.sm          etysa d byopyecarIu b                 yI      eIclasitn
oplirtiy) Iir  bgr-ec  tof  -1 cisln   per capital 1960, 1970, and 11nr.    _tei,sc)ebbos   opalti_o    ccadrc   n   rvd
date.                                                                   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iitsd Pans nf asdirl iscilities.   'or  cais-cI parpoaso or.Ihanbcpi-
POPULATION ASh V(Ivlt STirTIOTICS                                                                 hsiaslclorrrlhh,at  o    eia   o                                iatet1toycodtare.
Total fpnolatico. nid-Year fIiii s -. hA. of Jaly 1; l96S, 1970. snd 1178                      hd..aInas oe     1maItl red     Total. oumbd  ofi- sdsso -       cc ty ecae
Ira  -pltcefeose  of roral) -ratio  of urban I  total pnpnletlp-;                                I.~ijdb   h    --.   .
dcif-eoe     IT. As initino    of b,pheosreme ma:ffect  -op-bsiliry of data              HOUINrG~
mnongcoatoiem; 1Ob0r 1970r and fli  dan.                                                    Ave... lies of tou..ebold Irrsrsre  bo-ehboldi)              el  urb... sod toa-I
fPnruleion b  cs1000 - Curren t popaletioe P-jlection    rehsdAe1o0mdtItm in ele   A borde  cc  icdcrc an  co asph nor bn19 Irtu 'It"
ocre  Poplen  b   g   odmnnd eheir  -rrlir  so                   ei.lry-trs.                 hb. hoat..beld for astieric-l purposes.
Prjino  paItamarara     ;' Ac -otality rates cospries of th-s   oessms                  ots   ubro   e  oscoro      ca                    ra,iOms       crg   r1
irg life  e-p-esay at birtIh  ncrasing   ihoatyeper i-pit. iJosms                          hey of persons peo p-e  IIc all urban   1. a   ecrl cccpiedocet cl
leve, and ismal  liespose1thlre    t 77.5 ysarm.  The P.o-                                 daraliope, repectivey-         nilne-  'odsoo-s tonrc                      e ad
osrees for ferility  etst slen have .. ebras level   ne    ..e d..ie to   IcoctoePIed parts.
fertIlity  acoding en Incom    -leve    d paa femily plsieig pOfnr.s...e.                Ocsst  flscsrsictv  (osroet of deellioga) - co-1  urban, sod curi1
mob  touer  Is than asmigoad on to hmsI nin  -obis-rlon   of mortaity                        noetosdalisnitb el-oriciry to IroStqaretm
and feriIiry treads forP- Irn)s         PIi . p .rpe...of tc-al  -obs, acdg ours  dtselIngte-peci-oly
ttir ...sp   rnoalatloe-l.n.a.t: ....esy ppulatio- thes  Is en growh sirc
the blpshrare Is aqasi tc the  .. daabot.sdas    hseiut- rsv- -                           CT
mains comst.-   Thia Is achievd only sue    ferilit  atin            Ie r   n            Adlustsd iE-nl1-o  leeine
of  rosorpisose itself =natly.  T1'he semioasry pou1 to  se   eeoveletof allage  so rh                                                1 primary level s    picera d ofrpcic
emrisatsd on ohs basis of the pro)aotsd rh-rctmietiia of the pcpulsttcsn                      primary. stolaeppltlots pori-y Inclde  ciles r.ot ged  bIl
to tOe yea  1000 , cod the pets of dsoliee of fertilley rat  to replace-.yPris   thatedal-gd fur d-iffroclg                                 of1 pv- srp ehIdacatidn; fo
seat level.                                                                              ruri rth  onbneres.  i edacabo              h erollmntimy ssed.-100 prreo
faatatsoc E.a.....tion Is os-hba  - The y-s   homatnr   nuatn                               mneem    uisaebloc   hc  thoc.tuiitchoci age.p.
sie  a  ba  pahed.                                                                   S.cadr  schoo  - rctlt  sal  noI    d f-mal  - Ccnpc-d me  bho-;  -eccday
orlro    smityduatonreuiesg tllm ..                                                                                         ar f     yesr  of epproe  primr  l -toccole;
Fe Moibn     Ot-ysar  popisopr  kqnt   il-Ire  1100 h-t..r.mI ofpridenserl  ooscs.c  reaher rtIt losicu...cticc   for pupil
Per su   o.    ialaa   land  C-Copared as  h-n fnr  gric-leurl Is-d                              .o.de. .   1                                         cIR
only.                                                                                       V-ctinoal  -1rlmot fep ooif  --oodEmn%) - v .ct iica1 oasrt-ul...
icoaatin  ham   tearar  jrrcet -. Childrn   (0-1c yanra). e-riegeg 7, 15-                         ioclads  ebls,Odmrsl   robtpocm   oihceretdpe
POyar)  andI etir-   6iSye-r   sd nIs) s   sesam    fmd-yea  Fpsp-                               d-nly' ors  Aptet  of ssoo `o ittiuloe
le n;19., 1970j.sod 1979 data.'Ppl ecn  r  i      rmr.  nod scondty-Tti.. uroesroldt
?Ocaerin Gowthlas       ..r.et) - totsO  - Aenrrs  Sroeth patam  of reral mid-              priar  mEd  sndr!   _        ssdvddbynseec   eceet 
psrpoylatiom   fur 19501-it  1196-70, sod 1970-78.                                            -nrrep-rdnng Iec-la
Pecaatbs GowthRat pirt ...t) -arhan-qAonrnne  arseh rtst  of sob-r pora-                  MITI liter-co rats Irerc..t) - Lit-ote scales )sbl  to read rod coies)
lotlo.. fer 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-it                                                        aprsrp    fttleutpplco   gdi   er   o   nO
C_uds tlrth PRstI tr rh...snd  - dAtt-s  IIs hirihe p-e rhoa-d of m.d-year                              p-       g   ft.    .tPPlt.    .   5
populoe; 19,01. 1970, and 1971 dat.-                                                     ciorMFipy
trade 5esh eats fret tho....d         A -..r.c. Ideahs pot  hbo....d of etd-ys.-P.F......n CAos irer rhcu-d pcpul-rioo   - P..... Rt cot ccpttei clo
pcpolatlno; 196919 190. and 1978 data,cat  .s-iog  less  h-c eight ps1oroo;  coodee ambel--oc                                                                       .... nre  rod
Ir.a. tptedacisiu  tars-Average  n-sha  of daaght-r  a  mine  sill hog' Is                       military vehIcle.
boo  -oma  r-podattcs period if shin  ap-ois..o.e Preet  age-spasft Lfe-                    Raiotasoss   e   rhosse   ocrularicr  - hAl ltypes of rec..l-rs for redo
Iil-y rare;=usasly fins-ea  average  s.die aIn 19itO, 1970, sod 1177.I,t .bv doargesn  pbic  e   husdo   oulcc:ocue    nt
Panilo Plaais-ass  e--et of arciad ems    Pev-ntags of marrid                                   c            cantise ablishe    lioso.- y-    y-5Ip bl i.                     t
omtof cbIld-hesrlag  ngn  15-99 year) rho ass bioth-onot-l declos  iO                    OPciesi.              headorllol-Tyrclrrfcbo0sty
Loden of Fnc.    tdosin  ost C.it  21i-7l-19o  - TAse of per capit.  tal                         1c   f"el  gsntslloso Itde.pps,Plt",  def Stos  tn                   die   pb
teadateiolce)f          Ogeg       rcaftro efth ocantry is  amaf.do                           nihrssl .`durbog. lbs..  I,yea,iouipeee,cn  oc16u diosan,b
onitoosi ansoage prndaosr potranslebtel 199-95, 1970, seA  1971 ders.   aod mobile coiIs
seoa ersearmaad961Ot  a65 o  p             1970oloa   nssdsfrnml   1- 19981d                    d Ier_ds
oIyad he. tb   oe-d--i   enjc. iposhtalt.          raas   oy  sg;,ae                   psl it-loodroo i) -    thaelbrfoc   tprooost   celbrirn
so   e   tarhno   ofptosdo,  sdaloaog10pni                   fo_ara             hro lent   .oreIt             ao   ic   oIrlg   cory    uro    o
bP- aebnldIsosl;P1   lOhi-li. 190,ae  171feteflbo aspretg cinclaorot;lbI190nd98    c
.e.aia  uoro.poenlraaprdn)-Patingeytnipru  ieFrdetrbres)-Ihrfcc    ceoca oofuco.enusiro
a-titma   . pruos I as sedscpg   for the. word, proposeIdi.,by  alin th  Thqird             190  1970   cod191  s. -            -Thrae  L'  yArLce   too, totes rfttd
Ocrld P.o.o,d Sry;lb-O,   197  co.d   197  dais.                   r--           Ii-          T agese d totr.iosppuotc   o   cgtoced .                                 s
F ty cecli  hoorsth .a... fdromi   s             t-od pae-Prt-l   suppy  ofi food As-        mores are from  reIfcoat.scutb-s.
ir-a   daita   :l diod frmlf ose;                                      ofic  197  r1977dat. s fico .hsnriog yvpeco       ft II.-f -190    90..    9    .
t d.y.  N.t  Ipply of f   11 d         R.        Feodoag  cf1 Ptnare  occe   lb     I   as   nbtd  -Oetno   by-. o19he
oi  oot,  990  190  od  97  OemI.Ih                                                     1      d1Md1t               dR        .   ".g   -tt"
Ican  OnIolif lat  ir_taof         d   - . Poras  desth  of infnt  cadr  are yea          -cri     y-ooy-r-y
ofae Ieftrs  ad  h1       -    h.I   ._-Ip.. lTs.b.nt-d                            Pafim isd -alt   oopolto    ee  lul   perctmie -co  ot&  oe 
_d                 tho..yilclde  treatd_ ruf 75RIso ester  or u-triard bet.arcooamlo-ed      m for-hie
nate  Ithr   bcfn    rrce    erhls   pit                     n   ot tarpS. -  aRlls)9 fslm ts  Pltbo    oar   rocLee   litccoci      ra   o   ug
ircers     fci their                Pspaotp oplaidm IeobyesvAl pahltl~Tid6 teslemoo   yrorr5  Itrom   lee  7   o-rbr  o   o                                   epoe    Ita
W-c,tad  noF- dd       tlcrd   a   aeta    catesfo      os   a  beIT,reonli6essfcbeccatry ydh-.IrnL   I   el                                                  rnrros
cotudeedn   hsng  lrie   essnobe sces o  the hoss   Inrual  rea    lecl  it   ad  nrer  ic th.       e  carl. T_  of  Seo Iin urbdr  Ates
disposal as.t   (- percenages oIrbd t rmerv    o aie . lPrat  dl- d Thocec  odbtcsllat  ioiic
p.S.  mao iclId  i          h clledoso   thlnd  d  Rpcs ,;wt  or cibot dneae1 nt tiowcOayi   o  PoaoosTyrnt
of. doso    d-lcelaad       I             196e0,te  o  a 1e-h70 sysdm  at7 thdm.o-yubt1
ron rvanaes sod simIlar InsesliarI into.II-.1 .d k~o) -R-id  y  ~~h



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Pa-gie4of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$120 a/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH, 1965-78
(X, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %
0NP at Market Prices                 1,633       100.0                    2.3
Gross Domestic Investment              147         9.0
Gross Domestic Saving                   33         2.0
Current Account Balance (exc.
grants)                              -47        -2.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                   82         5.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                  245        15.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added
Value Added              Labor Force b/           Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %          US$ Mln.      X               USS
Agriculture                            996        68.0            5.9       93.0             169
Industry                               132         9.0            0.1        2.0           1,320
Services                               337        23.0            0.3        5.0           1.123
Total/Average                   1,465       100.0            6.3     100.0             233
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. M_.
Z of GDP
1976/77      1977/78       1978/79       1979/80       1978/79
Current Receipts                      1,302.2       1,559.3       1,811.9       1,747.6          8.4
Current Expenditures                    784.1         815.0       1.041.7       1.195.5          4.9
Current Surplus                         518.1         744.3         770.2         552.1          3.6
Capital Expenditure                   1,486.4       1,792.9       1,978.8       2,346.6          9.3
External Assistance (Net)               538.1         830.7         989.4       1,363.8          4.6
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980
(mid-April)
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                      2,524     3,223      3,772      4,512     5,249
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 480       750        966      1,129     1,336
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise             567       511        869      1,080     1,156
Bank Credit to Private Sector                716       864      1,072      1,332     1,849
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           14.5      18.7       19.3       21.1        ...
General Price Index (1973/74 = 100)        115.9     119.0      132.3      136.8     153.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                         -0.7       2.7       11.2        3.5       12.0 c/
Bank Credit to Government                   67.8      66.3       28.9       16.9      30.7 d/
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises          -0.4       -9.9       70.1       24.3       16.9 d/
Bank Credit to Private Sector              -8.6       20.7       24.1       24.3      35.3 d/
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
a/ World Development Report 1980.
b/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Estimate.
d/ April 1980 vs. April 1979.
not available



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TR_DE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1978/79 a/
US$ Mln.     %
1976/77    1977/78    1978/79
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                      93.9        88.8      108.6             Agricultural products                   84.3      78.0
Imports, c.i.f. b/                     166.9      209.7       242.7             Manufactures                           23.8       20.0
Trade Balance                    -73.0       120.9      -134.1                 Total                             108.1      100.0
Services, net                           39.4        47.6       64.9
of which:  Tourism                    23.0       30.2        41.4             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1979
US$ Mln.
Transfers, net                          30.8        25.1       29.9
of which:  Private Remit.             21.5       18.3        25.3             Public Debt, inc. guaranteed             125.3
Indian Excise Fund        30.8        25.1        3.0             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance           -2.8       -48.2       -39.3             Total Outstanding & Disbursed            125.3
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                         18.5        23.9       42.6
Official Capital, net                   16.3        22.7       35.7
Private Capital, net                   -10.3       -10.4        9.6             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978/79 c/
Change in Reserves               -21.7        12.0       -48.6             Public Debt, inc. guaranteed             1.4
(- Increase)
Gross Reserves (mid-July)              145.3       135.1      178.3
Net Reserves                           137.8       126.1      149.5             IBRD/IDA LENDING. (August 1980)(Millions US$)
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum          17.6       17.5        16.7             Outstanding & Disbursed                            55.7
Exports of which:  Petroleum           --         --          --              Undisbursed                             ----      149.1
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed                    218.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975
Through October 1975          through March 20, 1978          Since March 20,  1978
US$1.00 - NRs 10.56           US$1.00 - NRs 12.5              US$1.00 _ NRs 12.00
NR 1.00 - Us$ 0.095           NR 1.00 - US$  0.08             NR 1.00 - US$ 0.083
a/   Customs basis.
b/   Payments basis.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Nor-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
November 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1980) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                       Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                         7.1
373         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   6.0       0.4
397         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5           1.5
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                 11.8      2.8
505         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                   6.0       4.6
600         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric            40.8     16.3
617         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development            8.0       5.6
654         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                  9.0       2.3
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance         3.0       1.2
704        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage              8.0      6.6
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Devciopment
Corporation               4.0      3.4
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway              17.0      10.6
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education          5.7       5.6
799        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5          14.5
812         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  30.0      28.0
856         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  14.0      13.6
939        1979      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development             11.0     11.0
1008       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Forestry                    17.0      17.0
1055       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Mahakali Irrigation /b  16.0          16.0
1059       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Third Water Supply /b   27.0          27.0
1062       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Grain Storage |c             6.2       6.2
Total Outstanding /d /e                    267.6
Total Undisbursed                                    194.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year        Obligor         Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel          Hotel                       2.70   0.43      3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.27   0.43       2.70
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Not yet effective.
/c   Approved; not yet signed.
/d   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/e   Does not include Babai Engineering which is to be presented to the
Executive Directors on January 6, 1981.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page  2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project has nearly been completed. The main remaining item is
the restoration of eight tubewells. Crop yields achieved in irrigated areas
are promising. Water charges are now being levied in a limited area, and
farmers' acceptance is satisfactory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; EEfective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, L982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
the end of 1981.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1981
All major contracts have been let. Project implementation is over
two years behind the original schedule, primarily due to delays in letting the
contracts. A management team provided by the United Kingdom is assisting the
Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work is now progressing satisfactorily. An
EEC Special Action Credit was ap?roved in July 1979, to cover some of the
Governments share of the local costs of the project. During the negotiations
for the EEC Special Action Credit, the implementation schedule and dated
covenants were revised, and the closing date amended to July 31, 1981. All
major contracts are expected to be completed by December, 1980.
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementatior, though still about two years behind schedule,
has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families have been settled.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical assistance is being
provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also been laid on the need
for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better management and
planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use policy, we are
discussing with the Government reduction of project area to be newly settled
from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprec-
iation of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. Progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned project
actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been lagging
due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applications.
Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound and
practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported and
understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project pro-
posals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites and
plans for most district construction projects have been completed and construc-
tion started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms under a
credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in the project
area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may hinder project
implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more efficient deploy-
ment of existing staff and for special training of farmers as part-time agri-
cultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed UNDP technical
assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator and the Irrigation
Advisor have completed their assignments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Forty-one production wells
have been constructed. Progress of all civil works is very slow due to
the weakness of local contractors. Project implementation is over two years
behind schedule. Completion of the 11 KV transmission lines is far behind
schedule. Consequently, pumps ancL motors cannot be installed in the completed
tubewells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Studies for a national agricultural extension project, a silica-lime
brick factory, an airborne magnetometer survey, cottage industries and the
grain storage project have been completed, while studies are in progress for
river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project, an agricultural
manpower survey and the upgrading of mechanical workshops for irrigation
projects.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultantE; have begun work, and feasibility studies,
waster plan updating, and final cLesigns have been completed. A tariff
specialist has been recruited, aud the first contract for water meters has
been awarded. Evaluation of the bids for major contracts is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979 to assist in financing
a portion of the Government's share of the local cost of the project.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal IndustriaL Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systens advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA. Progress in
implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of complementary
local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued to lag.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project remains about two years behind schedule (dis-
bursements are at about 35% of the appraisal estimate), recent major improve-
ments in the Borrower's management give rise to the expectation that project
performance will improve and that substantial completion may possibly be



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
achieved by the Closing Date of December 31, 1982. Good progress is being
made in the construction of the Talsipur feeder road and significant improve-
ment has been achieved in the organization of work on the Thankot-Naubise
Road.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for which
the bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind schedule.
The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and a
second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major flood
in the Kosi river, causing considerable erosion and endangering the Chatra
Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. As a result
of this event it was agreed that river training works are not viable. The
sediment control studies are expected to be completed by mid-1981. Rehabilita-
tion work on the Chatra Main Canal and procurement of construction equipment
are ongoing. Local consultants are completing designs for the first 13,000 ha
of the irrigation system and international tenders will be invited to submit
bids for construction.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in five of the six irrigation blocks. Procure-
ment of construction and O&M equipment is underway.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed, but project activities
are approximately one year behind schedule. An earthquake hit the project
area in July 1980. Efforts are being made to accelerate the infrastructure
work under the project. This will contribute to reconstruction efforts.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
September 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Community Forestry z.nd Afforestation Division has been established.
Eight of the 10 division nurseries, 15 of the 20 range nurseries, and 46 of the
50 Panchayat nurseries of the first year work program have been started. Train-
ing of forest assistants is underway and 31 forest officers have been sent on
foreign study tours. Fourteen associate experts and volunteers, plus the sil-
viculturalist and socio-economist have taken up their posts under the technical
assistance component.
Credit No. 1055 - Mahakali Irrigal:ion Project (Stage 1) US$16.0 Million
Credit of Septemnber 29, 1980; Effective Date: March 31,
1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Credit not yet effective.
Credit No. 1059 - Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$27.0 Million
Credit of Septenber 29, 1980; Effective Date: January 31,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Credit not yet effective.
Credit No. 1062 - Grain Storage Project US$6.2 Million Credit
Credit not yet signed.
Credit No.       - Babai Irrigation Engineering Project US$3.5 Million Credit
Credit not yet signed.



- 30 -
Page I
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
15 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, with the assistance
of the FAO/CP.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
March 1979
October 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Government would establish permanent staffing posi-
tions for all incremental agricultural and livestock staff
positions satisfactory to the Association and employ
additional staff as and when needed to fill such positions
(para 42);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Agriculture and livestock portions of each DDP for project
districts would be furnished to the Association by May 15
of each year for review and comment (para 44);
(c) The Government would review annually with the Association
the credit needs of the farmers in the project area and
would provide adequate funds to ADBN to meet these needs
(para 49); and
(d)  A plan for the marketing programs, satisfactory to the
Association, would be prepared and furnished to the Asso-
ciation by June 30, 1982 (para 50).






83 30'                                                                  84-100                                                                    8430                                                                       85
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
PROJECT AREA AND FACILITIES                                                            A  A  N  A  N                                                                       ,              /
>    tlA           IV    A         N       G    J .l<
*      PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                  0      DISTRICT TOWNS/CENTERS
A     PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SERVICE                TRUNK ROADS
CENTERS                                                                     AN.APU..A I
-  --  ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION               793 m                                                /                                                                                      /
PROPOSED TRAIL IMPROVEMENTS                    A     D             I                                                                                                                                                                     3-
2830'                                                      -       -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                    1                                        ...                                                                                                       2830
PROJECT DISTRICTS
TRAINNG CNEER                  -   ZONAL ROUNDARIES       _          ,         f        \       ./V,,\
(D     TRAINING CENTERS                                                                                                ,J-                                  
-   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
() AIC STORAGE DEPOTS/                                                                                                                                      HMCUL
S,,AIMALCIRUL
RIVERS                                                                                                        no
0     PROJECT RELATED VILLAGES
A 7864   MOUNTAINS AND ELEVATIONS    \
G                   A                   N                    D                                       K                   I
DISTRICTS       LOCATION ASC.
c.RHw-       Kh,,D,l,.k                                 K\ A  /          S        K                               L                         A  4     U     N        
4T.V.-  -KFrCk
4 Ta,rangrO\Et                                                                                               
, MakaisingR \qTt                                                                                                                          
k ) } T 1' G O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                                  KH    A .
Khud, Bazar
DSra Saudi
S,Dder Data,                                     T                              d o                                             2/                                                           /
T,Snde,pdaIo              I          -r,    Pe            \  ia IaU RHo/a                                                   loT\                                 
D-mgpa Archale             '.                I                                                                                                                       /..                                             BAGM ATI
DralRg Maladkot
Ar.                                                                                                                      / ,,R
0,  'i    10~~    ,lh,i20        2itd                                                                                                                                                                                                                          _
Ilh,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a, , aap TaI 
D.,,,"h,p,d,"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)                                                                                                                                                               a,V,aaV,a,,
KlLOAlETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1%Ula,p. \l/ pa, IIV,
-28-09                                                                                                         AV          0                                    rkho~~~~~~~~~,...  Kore~tr    .  ~                        aaIDaVIU,a,V,a
r-                                                                                        l PVd>Yan G:,h                                                             i1t         V  /t  SRt                   10 m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eS,aT  D,  T
0Th 83 3084  0Va80
aa.,a    -AC
KILOEI[ TERS                                                                                                                                                                                             EV                                       5
8 3'30'                                                                       8400'                                                                      43                                                                                                           C



