Document of           FLE  COPY
The World Bank   MLE  |oP y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3136-NEP
NEPAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
January 5, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =  Nepalese Rupee (NR) 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Nepal - July 16-July 15
IDA   - July  1-June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AA        -    Agricultural Assistant(s)
AADO      -    Assistant Agricultural Development Officer(s)
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ADBN      -    Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       -    Agricultural Inputs Corporation
APROSC    -    Agricultural Projects Service Center
ASC       -    Agricultural Service Center(s)
AU        -    Accounting Unit
CDO       -    Chief District Officer(s)
DADO      -    District Agricultural Development Officer(s)
DCU       -    District Credit Union
DDP       -    District Development Plan(s)
DIHM      -    Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
DOA       -    Department of Agriculture
DTO       -    District Technical Office
DU        -    Disbursement Unit
GADP      -    Gandaki Anchal Agricultural Development Project
FIWU      -    Farm Irrigation and Water Utilization
HADP      -    Hill Agriculture Development Project
HMG       -    His Majesty's Government
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety (ies)
JT        -    Junior Technician
JTA       -    Junior Technical Assistant(s)
MFA       -    Miniscry of Food and Agriculture
MLD       -    Ministry of Local Development
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MOHP      -    Ministry of Home Panchayat
MOWT      -    Ministry of Works and Transport
MU        -    Monitoring Unit
MWR       -    Ministry of Water Resources
NFC       -    National Food Corporation
PC        -    Project Coordinator
PO        -    Program Officer(s)
PDO       -    Panchayat Development Officer(s)
RCC       -    Regional Coordinating Committee
RDA       -    Regional Director of Agriculture
SFDP      -    Small Farmers Development Program
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................               1
II.    BACKGROUND       ......................1...................... 
A.   The Country ......................................               1
The Panchayat System ........................    2
District Administration .....................    2
B.   The Development Scene ............................    3
C.   Agriculture in Nepal .............................    3
Agricultural Performance ....           ..............    4
Agricultural Strategy .....................    4
D.   Hill Agriculture .................................    4
Farming Systems .............................    5
Food Balances and Nutrition ....           .............    5
E.    Institutions .....................................              6
Research and Extension ......................    6
Agricultural Credit .........................             6
Sajha   .......................................           7
Input Supply.                                             8
Marketing and Storage.                                    9
Irrigation .10
F.    Foreign Assistance to Agriculture in the Hills ...   10
World Bank Assisted Projects  . .11
The First Rural Development Project
(Cr. 617-NEP)  . .11
The Second Rural Development Project
(Cr. 939-NEP)  . .11
Other Hill Agricultural Development
Projects .11
Gandaki Anchal Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (GADP) .11
Hill Agricultural Development Project
(HADP) .12
III. THE PROJECT AREA    ..12
A. General .12
Physical Characteristics .12
Population and Land Use .13
B.   Agricultural Production in the Project Area .14
Crop Production .14
Cropping Patterns .15
Cultural Practices .15
Animal Production .16
Animal Health Services .16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties.Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.        THE  PROJECT   .........                               .....          ......................                   17
A.       General   Description   ..............................                                                17
B.       Detailed   Features   ................................                                                18
Agricultural  Service Centers  (ASC)  ....                                    ......        18
Agricultural Extension, Research
and  Training   ...........................                                       19
Livestock Development and Animal Health ..    20
Staff   Requirements   .......................                                        20
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal    ......    21
Sajha   .......................................                                             21
Marketing   ...................................                                             21
Input Procurement and Distribution  ....                                      ......        22
Minor   Irrigation   ............................                                           22
Trails   and   Bridges   ..........................                                         23
Trails   ...................................                                          23
Bridges   ..................................                                          23
Project Monitoring  and Evaluation  ....                                    .......         23
Technical   Assistance   ........................                                           24
V.       COST  ESTIMATES   AND  FINANCING   ..........................                                                  24
A.   Cost Estimates ....................................    24
B.       Proposed   Financing   ...............................                                                26
C.       Procurement   and  Disbursement   .....................                                              26
D.       Accounts   and  Audit   ...............................                                               27
VI.        ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT   ...........                               ..         ..............            28
A.       Organization   .....................................                                                  28
B.       Management   .......................................                                                 28
Project   District   Coordinators   ....                               ...........          28
Coordinating   Committees   .....................                                           29
Project   Staffing   ............................                                           30
VII.        AGRICULTURAL   PRODUCTION  AND   INCOMES   ...................                                                 30
Crops   and  Cropping   Patterns   ......................                                            30
Farmers'   Risk  and   Crop  Failure   ...................                                           31
Incremental   Production   ...........................                                               32
Marketing   ........................................                                                 32
Farm   Incomes   .....................................                                               32
Cost Recovery ............                                                                           33
VIII.          BENEFITS   AND  JUSTIFICATION   ............................                                                  33
Economic   Evaluation   ..............................                                               34
Economic   Rate   of  Return   ..........................                                            34
Sensitivity  Analysis   .............................                                                34
IX.       AGREEMENTS   REACHED  AND   RECOMMENDATIONS   ................                                                  35



- Ill -
ANNEX 1        -    Crop and Animal Production and Food Balances
Table 1  -    Population, Adult Consumption Units and Caloric Requirements
Table 2   -    Food Grain Requirements for Average Family
ANNEX 2        -    Adaptive Research
ANNEX 3        -    Agricultural Credit, Input Supply, Marketing and
Cooperatives
Table 1   -    Fertilizer Requirement
Table 2   -    Seed Requirements
Table 3   -    Pesticide Requirements
ANNEX 4        -    Irrigation
Appendix 1,
Table 1   -    Irrigation Cost Estimates
ANNEX 5        -    Trails and Bridges
ANNEX 6        -    Basis for Economic Analysis
Table 1  -    Farm Inputs Requirements
Table 2   -    Summary of Economic & Financial Prices
Table 3   -    Cropping Area, Yield, Production & Value of Production
Table 4   -    Farm Input Costs
Table 5   -    Rate of Return Calculations
Appendix 1-    Model Farm Budgeting Assumptions
Table 1   -    Model Farm Budgets (0.2 ha)
Table 2   -    Model Farm Budgets (0.8 ha)
ANNEX 7        -    Estimated IDA Disbursements
ANNEX 8        -    Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 9        -    Project Costs and Charts
Table  1 -    Summary of Project Costs
Table  2  -    Agricultural Extension Service
Table  3  -    Livestock Development and Animal Health
Table  4  -    Agricultural Service Centers
Table  5  -    Agricultural Development Bank
Table  6  -    Fertilizer
Table  7  -    Training
Table  8  -    Trails and Bridges
Table  9  -    Minor Irrigation
Table 10  -    Technical Assistance
CHART 1        -    Organization of Principal Activities
CHART 2        -    Flow of Direct Costs and Credit
ANNEX 10       -    Refinance Materials Available in South Asia Regional
Information Center
MAP            -    IBRD 15049






NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ever growing population, mountainous terrain, limited irrigation,
increasing cultivation of steep hillsides, overgrazing of pasture lands, and
defoliation (for livestock fodder) and destruction of forests all contribute
to declining standards of living for the residents of the Hill and Mountain
regions of Nepal. In the Hills, food produced annually by the average farm
family is now believed to cover only the equivalent of about 225 days of the
family's minimum annual subsistence needs. The Agricultural Sector Review
undertaken by IDA in 1978 (Report No. 2205-NEP) pointed out that despite
decreasing crop yields of maize and wheat, past efforts to raise production
in the Hills and Mountains had been few and of little success. Nevertheless,
despite the generally moderate agricultural potential of these areas, consider-
able opportunities exist for raising production in the short term.
1.02      As a follow-up to the sector review and in recognition of the aims
of Nepal's Fifth Development Plan, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program missions,
headed by Mr. D. Muller-Praefcke, visited Nepal in March and October of 1979
to assist HMG in the identification and preparation of a project to increase
food production in Hill areas.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited Nepal in May/June 1980. The mission consisted of Messrs. J. H.
Lindt (IDA), D. C. Finfrock (Agricultural Consultant), R. Issar (Agricul-
tural Inputs Consultant) and T. B. Rawal (Agricultural Economics Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Country
2.01       Nepal is landlocked between China and India.  It is divided into
three parallel ecological zones running east-west: the Terai Plain, an exten-
sion of the Gangetic Plain of India; the Hills, actually the foothills of the
Himalayas, ranging from 500 m to 4,000 m in elevation; and the Himalayan
Mountains to the north. These three zones account for 17%, 68% and 15% of the
total area (140,800 sq km), respectively. Rivers and streams, running north-
south, cut the Hills into isolated areas and varying microclimatic conditions
provide a range of environments for plant growth, depending on elevation,
aspect, cloud cover, slope, etc.
2.02       Nepal's population is currently estimated at 13.6 M and is increas-
ing at 2.6% annually.  About 65% of the population live in the Mountains and
Hills. Population pressure and the lack of employment opportunities in the



-2-
Hills forces 10% to 50% of male family members to migrate, either seasonally or
permanently, to the Terai, Kathmandu or elsewhere in order to find employment
and supplement incomes.
2.03      With current annual per capita income estimated at US$120, Nepal is
one of the poorest countries in the world. GDP growth during the last decade
has averaged about 2.4% annually which is less than the growth in population.
2.04      Administratively, Nepal is divided into four Development Regions.
Each of these comprises a section of the country, running north to south,
containing Mountain, Hill and Terai districts. Each Development Region is
subdivided into Development Zones, varying from three to five in number, which
are further divided into districts.
The Panchayat System
2.05      The panchayat system, which encompasses the political and develop-
ment organizations, has three tiers. The lowest political level is the
village, followed by the district panchayat and at the highest level is the
national panchayat. The village panchayat is generally comprised of nine
wards (the smallest socioeconomic unit), each containing about two hamlets.
A town panchayat is established for areas with a population of 10,000 and
more. The average area of a Hill village panchayat has been estimated at
3,670 ha, with a population of 4,300 (about 700 families).
2.06      The working of the panchayat system and responsibility for law and
order rest with the Ministry of Home Panchayat (MOHP).
2.07      District Administration.  The Chief District Officer (CDO), appointed
by MOHP, is the administrative head of all functionaries of government line
ministries operating at the district level. These functionaries comprise a
District Secretariat, which also functions as the Secretariat to the District
Panchayat.
2.08      Line ministries retain technical supervision of staff at district
level while delegating responsibility to CDO for administrative management.
Popular participation in development is through a number of coordinating
committees, chaired by the district panchayat chairmen and comprising CDO,
and representatives of line ministries, and individuals chosen by district
panchayats from among their elected body.
2.09      Proposals for village panchayat development are put forward and
discussed at village meetings and submitted to the district panchayat for
approval, technical clearance and financial assistance. Each year a district
development plan is prepared, comprising all the activities in the district
other than those of zonal or national scope. Village panchayat plans, which
specify priorities, estimated costs and the contribution the panchayat can
make (including funds, labor and materials), are consolidated by the district
panchayat into the district plan.  The district panchayat also assigns prior-
ities to projects to be undertaken. Government line officers then examine
proposals from the district panchayat, assess their technical feasibility,



- 3 -
and relate proposals to the implementation capacity of the line department
and to funds and other resources available. After further discussions, the
final district plan, approved by the district assembly, is submitted to MOHP
for its approval and release of funds. A recent innovation requires that
district plans be sent to the Zonal Commissioner for his comment and scrutiny
before they are submitted to MOHP.
B. The Development Scene
2.10      Nepal embarked on social and economic development only in the early
1950s. Considerable progress has been made since then within the constraints
imposed by its landlocked position, its low resource base, inaccessibility
of many of its regions, rapidly growing population, and shortage of trained
manpower. The lack of communication between administrative zones is impeding
economic integration of the country and efficient use of comparative regional
advantages.
2.11      Nepal's economic performance during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period
(1975-80) has not been encouraging (less than 2.4% GDP growth annually) in
spite of real increases in the levels of investment. This performance is
mainly due to poor results in agricultural production. The critical stage
that agricultural development has reached is highlighted by the fact that
Nepal's most important export, rice, has declined from a high level of about
500,000 tons in the mid-1960s to about 100-200,000 in the early 1970s, 30,000
tons in 1977/78, and in 1979/80, a year of low rainfall, Nepal became a net
importer. The trade gap has widened steadily, but has so far been covered
by increased tourism earnings and foreign aid disbursements. Investment,
however, still only amounts to 10% GDP. The Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-1985),
currently under preparation, calls for a 4% growth in GDP and increased
investment outlays. Basic principals of the plan focus more sharply on
the issues facing Nepal, while recognizing the limited financial and human
resources available for development. The main plan objectives are to increase
production in agriculture and cottage and small scale industry, to increase
opportunities for productive employment, to meet certain basic human needs,
and to slow the population growth rate.
C. Agriculture in Nepal
2.12       Agriculture continues to dominate the economy.  It provides a
livelihood to over 90% of the population, generates about two-thirds of GDP
and provides about 75% of all exports, mainly rice, jute, pulses, and oil-
seeds. During the past decade, farm family income levels have been maintained
by increasing the area under cultivation. While in the Terai, areas of forest
that can be converted into productive farm land remain, virtually no such
reserve is left in the Hills and Mountains.   As a result, more and more
marginal land has been brought under cultivation and average crop yields have
declined.



2.13      About a sixth of the total land area is suitable for cultivation, of
which only about 15% is irrigated. Less than 10% of the cropped area is under
cash crops; mainly oilseeds, jute, sugarcane, potato and tobacco. Food crops
(mainly paddy, maize, wheat, millet, barley and potatoes) are grown on some
2.0 M ha or about 90% of the total cropped area. Cultivated on 1.3 M ha (more
than half of the total area under major food crops), paddy is the dominant
crop in Nepal. Maize, second in importance, is grown on some 445,000 ha.
Wheat, millet and barley follow with 348,000, 121,000 and 24,000 ha, respec-
tively. Some 50,000 ha are under potatoes. Double cropping is important in
all areas.
2.14      Agricultural Performance.  During the period 1970/71 to 1977/78, the
trend in production of major foodgrains and potatoes was disappointing, except
for wheat. Production grew at about 1.1% annually, largely due to expansion
in acreage, while yields, again with the exception of wheat, fell at a rate of
about 0.9% per year. Erratic rainfall, generally decreasing soil fertility
and higher cost of fertilizers partly account for the decline but other
factors, such as inadequate agricultural extension and other support services,
lack of trained manpower, and inappropriate pricing policies have also contri-
buted. Cash crops, however, fared much better due to more favorable inter-
national prices. The increase in production of these crops was also derived
from area increase rather than from increased yields.
2.15      Agricultural Strategy.  The Government has had to moderate its
earlier approach of regional specialization (foodgrains in the Terai and
horticulture, tea, and livestock in the Hills) in view of the need for an
adequate foodbase in the Hills. Accordingly, a number of bilateral and multi-
lateral supported projects are directed specifically towards the improvement
of agriculture in the Hills. The role of the Terai will continue to be the
generation of domestic and exportable foodgrain surpluses as a resource for
further development.  Since area expansion in the Terai is limited, emphasis
will be on increasing crop yields under rainfed and irrigated conditions.
D. Hill Agriculture
2.16      Because of the very rugged topography, arable agriculture in the
Hills is limited to valley bottom land and to slopes which have been terraced.
Overall, some 600,000 ha are estimated to be under cultivation in the Hills.
This is less than one-third of the total area cropped in Nepal. The Hill
population is currently estimated at 7.8 M, or almost 60% of the total popu-
lation and density exceeds 13 persons per ha of cultivated land as against
less than six persons per ha in the Terai. Through constant subdivision, the
average holding size is now less than 0.5 ha, compared to an average of 1.7 ha
in the Terai. Farms are fragmented (five to seven parcels per farm) and mostly
owner-operated. The shortage of good land increasingly forces the cultivation
of steep or unstable slopes with consequent low yields and increasing erosion.
The already massive erosion caused by natural forces is further accelerated by
overgrazing of pasture lands, defoliation for livestock fodder and destruction
of forests in the search for firewood and timber.



2.17      In Hill districts, some 450,000 ha or 75% of the total cultivated
area consists of dry upland terraces where the potential for irrigation is
minimal. Maize, wheat, millet and barley and, at higher elevations, potatoes
are the principal crops. Irrigated land (some 150,000 ha) is generally con-
fined to areas in valley bottoms, mostly along river banks in small patches
and on terraces to which small streams are diverted for seasonal irrigation.
Since the source of water for these irrigated areas is mostly from small
streams which normally dry up during the dry winter season, the possibility
of growing winter crops in these areas is limited.
Farming Systems
2.18      The agricultural calendar is similar throughout most of the Hill
zone. In the low-lying wet lands, where at least seasonal irrigation is gene-
rally available, paddy is planted in June or July and harvested in November
or December. Thereafter, wheat is planted and grown on residual moisture and
harvested the following April or June depending on elevation. On upland
terraces, rainfed maize, millet, pulses and soybeans are grown between July
and December and often interplanted. At higher altitudes, potatoes and barley
are planted mostly in the winter months of December or January and the growing
period lasts until the end of July. In the past, lack of good storage limited
retention of seed potatoes to areas above 2,000 m, a factor which posed prob-
lems of distribution of seed. Recent research at the Khumaltar Research
Center near Kathmandu has developed new methods for seed storage at lower
elevations.
2.19       Farming methods are largely traditional and fertility is maintained
by the use of animal manures and compost. Except for the Terai and Kathmandu
Valley, the application of chemical fertilizer is extremely low as farms are
small and owners generally poor and not credit worthy. On these small farms,
additional output produced through use of fertilizer is generally consumed by
the family and does not enter the market. Livestock, mainly cattle and
buffalo, but also goats, pigs and poultry, are kept as sources of milk and
meat, draught power and manure. Mainly, because of indifferent genetic stock
and poor feeding, productivity of these animals is low.
2.20       For health reasons, most villages are situated on hill tops and
hillsides. The valleys have been settled only since malaria became controlled
in last 20 years. In general, little cash trade is associated with agricul-
tural production and, among farmers in isolated villages located at higher
altitudes, barter is common. Some cash income, however, is derived from the
sale of animals and animal products, including milk, eggs and ghee. Crops
also provide some income to those farmers owning irrigated land. Off-farm
income from porterage, army pensions or from seasonal employment in the Terai
or North India play an important role in food deficit areas.
Food Balances and Nutrition
2.21      In general, the overall picture in the H{ills is one of growing
dependence on foodgrains from other parts of the country, mainly the Terai.
In 1976, it was estimated that only eight out of 55 Hill and Mountain districts
showed a food surplus. Zonal differences in production of major food crops



- 6 -
are considerable and when translated into terms of caloric requirements for
minimum subsistence, the average family in the Mountains now produces enough
food for about 190 days; in the Hills, for 225 days; and in the Terai, for 540
days. The declining ability of the FMountain and Hill zones to provide subsist-
ence for their residents is reflected in the high overall Nepalese infant
mortality rates (estimated at 152/1,000 live births), a death rate of children
between ages 1-4 estimated at 39/1,000 and a general lowered resistance to
disease.
E. Institutions
Research and Extension
2.22      Located within Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA), the Depart-
ment of Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for agricultural research, provision
of extension services and the general development of agriculture. The agri-
cultural extension and research services are headed by two Deputy Directors
General of Agriculture. At the regional level (see para. 2.04) a Regional
Director of Agriculture supervises district level extension and development
programs each of which is managed by a District Agricultural Development
Officer (DADO). In each district, DADO is assisted by Assistant Agricultural
Development Officers (AADO), Junior Technicians (JT) and Junior Technical
Assistants (JTA) who have varying amounts of formal agricultural training.
A recent innovation has been the employment of Agricultural Assistants (AA),
who are selected from among progressive farmers, retired servicemen or other
respected persons. AA receive minimal training and serve on a part-time
basis for which they are given an allowance of NRs 50 to 150 per month. DADO
and AADO are gazetted officers, generally with a college education; JT and
JTA have ten years of schooling, plus two years or one year, respectively, of
generalized agricultural training.
2.23      Agricultural research is centrally controlled by the Deputy General
of Research. Since 1972, coordinated crop research programs have been ini-
tiated for the production of improved varieties of rice, wheat, maize, citrus
and potatoes. These programs are carried out at the large research complex
at Khumaltar and seven research stations located throughout the country.
Some 30 government farms (located in different parts of the country) support
the activities of these main stations. Much useful work has been done in the
introduction and testing of improved varieties that have been incorporated
into a national crop breeding program. The recently introduced "mini-kit
program" whereby progressive farmers are given small amounts of seed of
several varieties for testing on their own farms is an excellent concept and
appears to be working well. Such a method is particularly well suited to
Nepal where enormous variations in growing conditions preclude the possibili-
ties of producing varieties suited to all conditions.
Agricultural Credit
2.24      The single major source of institutional credit is the Agricultural
Development Bank, Nepal (ADBN), established in 1973. It was created to meet



- 7 -
the overall credit requirements of agriculture and agro-based industries,
and ensure effective mobilization of rural savings.  The Sajha (cooperative)
program also provides short term production credit to members from ADBN
supplied funds available to Sajha for onlending to its members. More recently,
commercial banks have also been involved in rural credit.
2.25      ADBN is authorized to provide loans to individuals, companies,
and institutions engaged in agricultural production. More specifically, its
functions are: (a) to provide short, medium and long term credit to Sajha
and corporate bodies engaged in agriculture development; (b) to provide loans
directly to farmers for the purchase of seed, fertilizer, pesticides, farm
machinery, and irrigation equipment; (c) to invest in small scale industries
engaged in processing farm products and manufacturing inputs required for
agriculture; and (d) to provide banking facilities in places where commercial
banks are not established. The standard terms and conditions of lending to
the final borrower are 18 months duration for short term loans with a 14%
annual interest rate, 7 years for medium loans at 11% annual interest rate,
and 20 years for long term loans with an 8% interest rate. Rediscount facil-
ities are available to ADBN through the Rastra Central Bank. It is expected
that the spread to ADBN on future refinance operations would be increased to
about 6%, up from the 4% level utilized under previous programs, which is
satisfactory to cover all operating and administrative changes. ADBN also
has access to development loans; the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is currently
completing arrangements with the Government for a fourth line of credit and a
Small Farm Development Project for onlending to ADBN. In addition to funds,
the ADB projects include technical assistance and training to strengthen
ADBN as an institution.
2.26      Most farmers are still reluctant to approach institutional agencies
for credit, mainly due to lengthy and complicated procedures for borrowing and
difficulties in establishing collateral for loans. Absence of technical know-
how in commercial banks is a factor restricting expansion of lending by these
organizations.
2.27      A major initiative was taken in 1975, through the Small Farmers
Development Program (SFDP), to enable small farmers, who may not meet ADBN's
usual lending criteria of annual income of at least NR 950 per person or
certificate of land ownership or land revenue receipt, to avail themselves
of credit. ADBN was the lead agency in setting up this program with initial
capital provided by UNDP/FAO. The basic strategy involves the organization
of small farmers into homogenous groups, not exceeding 20 persons. A group
organizer is appointed to assist the group in identifying economic invest-
ments, and credit is made available using group responsibility as security
for the loan. This pilot scheme has met with some success and has subsequently
been replicated in various parts of the country. In the project area, such
group credit programs, which also include investments in irrigation, are
mostly located along the main highway (Map IBRD 15049).
Sajha
2.28      The Sajha development program was introduced by H1-1G in early 1976
in order to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings and
to link economic development with political decentralization at the local



-8-
level. The Sajhas are governed by a committee elected from within its
membership. The President of the village panchayat where the Sajha is located
automatically becomes chairman (paras 2.05-2.09). The objectives of Sajha are
to provide credit (both for production and consumption), agricultural inputs
and marketing facilities, as well as to sell essential consumer goods (salt,
kerosene, coarse cloth, diesel oil, rice and sugar) to members at controlled
prices. At present, one Sajha serves, on average, three to four village
panchayats. Sajha also acts as the agent of national trading organizations
such as the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC) and the National Food
Corporation (NFC) (para 2.36). In some cases Sahjas are incorporated into
an apex type cooperative union at district level. Where a union exists, it
provides the basis for appropriate planning and supervision especially in
the case of poorly performing and recalcitrant societies.
Input Supply
2.29      The Agricultural Inputs Corporation is the sole government agency
responsible for supply of inputs to farmers and was established in its present
form in 1975-76. Its functions include: (a) importation and distribution of
chemical fertilizers and maintenance of a buffer stock sufficient for at least
one cropping season; (b) collection, processing, storage and distribution of
improved seeds and assistance to DOA in conducting seed multiplication pro-
grams; (c) procurement and distribution of agricultural chemicals for plant
protection and grain storage; and (d) distribution of locally manufactured
agricultural tools and implements as well as importation and distribution of
agricultural machinery.
2.30      AIC multiplies improved seed through contract growers.  In addition,
all seed produced on government farms is distributed through AIC.
2.31      Nepal does not manufacture chemical fertilizer and depends entirely
on imports which are either financed by bilateral aid (2/3) or by direct
purchase (1/3). International procurement, by nature of Nepal's isolation
and landlocked position, is not easy as all purchases have to pass through
India. Procurement is so arranged that stocks arrive in Nepal before the
advent of the monsoon and again before the winter planting season begins in
November. Fertilizer imports are generally delivered through Calcutta Port
(India) and transported by road and train to the Indian/Nepalese border.
Internal distribution is then either by road or in the hills and mountains
by mules and porters. The transportation costs to some of the more remote
interior areas amount to more than the actual cost of fertilizer.
2.32      Official figures on imports of fertilizer during the last three
years were:
1977-78   1978-79   1979-80
----------tons-------------
Bilateral aid            37,000    42,000       25,000
HMG purchases              9,000     5,000      13,000
46,000    47,000      38,000



- 9 -
Over the next five years HMG is expecting a substantial increase in demand
but is uncertain about the availability of fertilizer provided by bilateral
agencies as contributions from these sources declined quite substantially in
1979-80 and levels of future assistance cannot be assured.
2.33      As Nepal depends on the international market for the pv--chase of
fertilizer, inflationary trends in international prices have a marked influence
on domestic prices. Hlowever, in keeping with other countries in the region,
HMG subsidizes the cost of fertilizers to farmers. The amount of this subsidy
is effectively dependent on the prevailing retail price in India as any price
differential would ensure flows of fertilizer either one way or other across
the border and would be detrimental to both governments. HMG has, as a matter
of policy, adopted a uniform price structure for fertilizer throughout the
country, regardless of transportation costs. The present sale price of urea
to farmers is about Rs 3,000 (US$250) per ton which corresponds to the price
prevailing in India. This covers roughly 2/3 of the total cost of fertilizer
at the retail sales point. At this price, HMG provides an average subsidy
to farmers of Rs 1,543 (US$129) per ton. After the fertilizer is sold, AIC
returns the rupee equivalent of the sales price to the government.  Due to
subsidy in the sales price which has not been offset by H1MG transfers, AIC
lost some Rs 46 M on its fertilizer operations between 1972 and 1976. These
losses continue (para 4.19).
2.34      AIC is not usually involved in retailing except in some remote
hill areas. Fertilizer is sold mostly through Sajha. AIC makes available
fertilizer to District Cooperative Unions (DCU) who act as wholesalers both
to Sajha and private dealers. Dealers operate on a commission basis and
irrespective of the type of fertilizer, AIC allows 6% commission to DCU who
retain 1% --nd pass on 5% to individual Sajha. Private dealers are allowed
4-1/2% commission and in this case DCU retain 1-1/2%. Besides, a 3-1/2%
additional commission is allowed to Sajha as an incentive to lift fertilizer
from district storage well ahead of the planting season.
2.35      The estimated sales of inputs by AIC in 1978 were:  54,000 tons
of fertilizer, including carryover stocks and fresh imports, 2,520 tons of
improved seeds, pesticides costing Rs 1.9 M, and agricultural implements
costing Rs 2.6 M.
Marketing and Storage
2.36      Because the bulk of agricultural production in Hill areas is sub-
sistence oriented, only small quantities enter commercial marketing channels.
Much of the grain marketed is sold in order to purchase other subsistence
requirements, e.g., tea, sugar, salt and spices, and then is bought back later
in the year from NFC or private suppliers when home food supplies dwindle. In
any event, the pattern of agricultural marketing is largely determined by the
topography of the country, the general direction of trade being north-south,
i.e., between the Hills and Mountains and the Terai. There is also a consider-
able trade of a "regional nature" to meet the demands of vagaries of weather
and periodic shortages caused by insect attack, hail, etc.



- 10 -
2.37      Throughout Nepal, marketing is hampered by poor transport facili-
ties and inadequate storage. The rugged topography makes the construction
and maintenance of road systems difficult and expensive. This is particularly
true in the Hills and Mountains where foot tracks and trails for mules are
the main means of transport. Thus, traditional on-farm storage methods become
important and these vary depending upon the type of crop to be stored and the
range of locally available building materials. Maize is normally stored on
the unhusked cob, tied into bundles and hung on railings of houses or to ver-
tical poles placed near the house. Paddy and wheat are stored in containers
made of clay and straw. Estimates of storage losses vary considerably and the
figure of 10% is quoted frequently. Recently, FAO has initiated the Rural
Save Grain Program in Syanja District. The National Food Corporation (NFC),
with the aid of UK, UNDP and IDA, is slowly expanding its storage capacity. A
US$6.2 M Grain Storage Project (Cr. 1062-NEP) was approved in August 1980 to
increase storage capacity by 40,000 tons in the Terai, and to provide technical
assistance and training. NFC is responsible, on a national scale, for the
internal purchase and distribution of foodgrains to balance demand and supply;
NFC often uses Sajha as its local agent. The Food and Agricultural Marketing
Services Department collects price data, analyzes trade patterns, and estab-
lishes marketing systems, particularly in the Hills.
irrigation
2.38      The Department of Irrigation Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM) of
the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) is primarily responsible for the imple-
mentation, operation and maintenance of medium (50 to 100 ha) and large (over
100 ha) irrigation projects throughout Nepal. To make the best use of its
limited resources, it has concentrated its main efforts on the larger schemes,
and has excluded those below 50 ha. Irrigation in the Hills, however, is
dominated by small-scale indigenous systems which normally have command areas
well below 50 ha and there is great potential and need for improvement of
these primitive systems. Until lately, resources for such efforts were lack-
ing although the situation is rapidly changing as MFA, MLD, MOHP and MOWT are
becoming increasingly involved in small-scale irrigation rehabilitation works.
2.39      At district level, engineering activities of these ministries are
merged under a common District Technical Office (DTO), usually staffed by
an engineer, assisted by two overseers and a number of support staff. The
engineer and staff may be supplied by any one of the agencies mentioned
above. Many DTO lack equipment, office accommodation and adequate staffing.
Irrigation development generally has played a subordinate role in activities
of DTO which are also responsible for construction of village water supplies,
trails, bridges and government buildings.
F. Foreign Assistance to Agriculture in the Hills
2.40      A wide range of bilateral and multilateral assistance supports HMG
in its efforts to accelerate agricultural development. A number of projects
are directed specifically towards the improvement of agriculture in the Hills.
These projects generally follow an integrated area approach, but in some



- 11 -
cases involve improvement of a single crop or aim primarily at strengthening
supporting services.
World Bank Assisted Projects
2.41      The First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP).  This five-year
project became effective in July 1976 and is assisting in the development of
the two Hill districts of Nuwakot and Rasuwa located in the Central Region.
General progress has been satisfactory. With some exceptions, implementation
is either ahead of schedule or as forecast at appraisal. Agricultural Ser-
vice Centers, located at strategic points throughout both districts, and pro-
vide input storage, accommodation and office space for representatives of
DOA, ADBN and Sajha. Thus the centers form a focal point for extension, and
credit and supply activities. Track and trail improvement has lagged owing
to shortages of labor during the construction season. Furthermore, shortages
of well-trained staff and lack of seed of improved varieties have contributed
to a slower rate of improvement in agricultural production than expected at
appraisal. Nevertheless, considerable increases in wheat and potato produc-
tion have occurred at higher elevations and the establishment of four small
cheese/butter plants has increased cash returns to livestock keeping. As a
result of recent management changes, the agricultural program is gaining
greater momentum and seed of improved varieties is becoming increasingly
planted. About 40,000 farm families have participated in project activities.
It is now apparent that overall crop yields will be greater than anticipated
at appraisal and, consequently, the rate of return for the project will be
better than expected (29%,), as construction costs of tracks, trails and
buildings are also lower than estimated.
2.42      The Second Rural Development Project (Cr. 939-NEP).  This project
aims at the comprehensive development of three Hill districts (Darchula,
Dandeldhura and Baitadi) in the Mahakali Zone. It also aims to improve:
(a) crop and livestock production; (b) communications, health services, edu-
cational facilities, postal services and cottage industries; and (c) agricul-
tural credit, cooperatives and input supply. District and panchayat adminis-
tration would also be strengthened. The project only became effective in
January 1980 and is in the very early stages of implementation. A project
coordinator has been appointed and district staff and farmers made aware of
project content. First District Development Plans are being prepared by
District Panchayats. The area recently suffered from severe earthquakes and
the destruction of much of the existing infrastructure will hamper project
implementation.
Other Hill Agricultural Development Projects
2.43      Gandaki Anchal Agricultural Development Project (GADP).  This proj-
ect was established in 1969 as the result of an agreement between HMG and
the Federal Republic of Germany. Initially, it covered only three districts
in Gandaki Zone (Western Region). Later, it was expanded to cover all six
districts of Gandaki and additional districts in Dhaulagiri Zone. Project
objectives were to increase agricultural productivity and to improve the
economic situation of small farmers mainly through provision of better exten-
sion services, training, distribution of high quality breeding animals and



- 12 -
the setting up of an efficient agricultural marketing system. The project
was completed in July 1979 with total expenditures of about US$8 M and made a
big impact in the promotion of wheat growing (a relatively new crop in that
part of the country). By the end of 1977, some 9,300 ha were under this crop,
involving ab-ut 40,000 farmers. Improved paddy and maize varieties were
introduced on 4,000 ha. Practical training was provided annually to some 200
extension workers, 800 farmers and 200 participants from different government
institutions. Several components of the project, including construction of
warehouses and staff quarters are still underway but expected to be completed
by July 1981. The Hill Food Production Project described in this report will
be carried out in four of the Gandaki districts and will build on and benefit
from investments made under the German-funded program.
2.44      Hill Agriculture Development Project (HADP).  As a joint undertaking
of HMG, UNDP and FAO initiated in 1973, a project to strengthen the
activities of the Government in the development of Hill agriculture and the
raising of farm incomes and productivity in Hill areas. The project pays
special attention to the maintenance and improvement of soil fertility in Hill
areas and preservation of a productive ecological balance within the Hill
environment. Project coverage was comprehensive, but far beyond the resources
available. The major achievements have been the listing of factors limiting
agricultural production and the training of personnel.
2.45      Among other programs important to the project area are two forestry
projects: Community Forestry Development and Training Project (IDA Credit
1008-NEP) in Lamjung, Syanja and Tanahu Districts and USAID's Resources Con-
servation Project in Gorkha District. Crop research and extension projects
also include the Integrated Cereals Project (USAID), Potato Development
Project (Nepal-Swiss Association for Technical Assistance and International
Potato Center), Pumdi Bhundi Pilot Extension Project (HMG) and Lumle Agricul-
tural Center (British Government). USAID is supporting a nationwide Seed
Production and Input Storage Project and FAO's Rural Save the Grain Program
is being carried out in Syanja District.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The project area covers the Hill districts of Gorkha, Lamjung,
Syanja and Tanahu (for location, see Map IBRD 15049). The four districts
are located within the Gandaki Zone (which contains two additional districts
of the Western Development Region). Together, they represent a total area of
7,800 sq km and comprise 194 village panchayats. The districts were covered
by the GADP (para. 2.43).
Physical Characteristics
3.02      The project area forms part of the large Sapta Gandaki drainage sys-
tem. Five major river tributaries traverse the area in a north-south direction.



- 13 -
Most of the terrain is broken, consisting of steep hills and narrow valleys.
Altitudes range from about 300 m, mainly in Syanja and Tanahu Districts, to
over 7,000 m in northern parts of Gorkha District. The difference in elevation
between valley floors and adjacent hill tops often exceeds 1,000 m.
3.03      The climate, strongly influenced by the Himalayan mountain range,
varies from subtropical in major valleys below 1,000 m to warn temperate
at elevations between 1,000 m and 2,000 m, to cool temperate from altitudes
of 2,000 m to 3,000 m and to alpine from 3,000 m and above. Above 4,000 m,
the climate is arctic. Recorded rainfall is highest near the Annapurna
range (5,300 mm) and lowest in North Gorkha District (1,200 mm). About 80%
of precipitation is confined to the monsoon period of June to September.
Average minimum temperatures of about 8 0C and average maximums of 20 0C can
be considered representative for most of the cropping area. Local variations
due to slope and cloud cover lead to many temperature differences within
altitude ranges.
3.04      Soils are typically silty loams and clay loams, with silty loams
more general in the medium to lower altitudes, and clay loams found at higher
altitudes. High rainfall and low soil permeability have led to acid soils
in some areas. Potassium and phosphorous levels are generally medium to high,
but the nitrogen status is low.
3.05      Natural vegetation consists predominantly of forests and shrubs,
with an increasing percentage of denuded forest land that is subject to
constant degradation to meet the needs of animal fodder and fuel.
Population and Land Use
3.06      The population of project districts is estimated currently at about
840,000. About 56,000 ha or some 7% of the total area is presently cultivated.
The average of 13 inhabitants per ha of cultivated land is exceeded in Gorkha
and Lamjung Districts where the cultivated area is comparatively small in
proportion to the total area of the district. In Syanja and Tanahu Districts,
where topography is less rugged, cultivated land accounts for almost two-thirds
of the total areas farmed in the four districts and, in general, pressure on
land is less severe.
3.07      The average size of a family is between five and six persons through-
out the project area and some 75% of the 147,000 farm holdings are below 0.5
ha in size. These very small farms occupy about half of the total upland
(rainfed) and about one-third of the lowland (irrigated) areas. Farm holdings
in the size group above one ha (7% of the total) represent almost 40% of all
lowland and 20% of upland areas.
3.08      Some 90% of the cultivated area is either under foodgrains or
potatoes. The balance is sown to pulses, vegetables and other minor crops.
Maize, cultivated on an area of 28,000 ha, occupies the largest area under
any single crop. Wheat, a relatively new crop, is grown on some 5,000 ha.
Barley and potatoes are important crops in Gorkha and Lamjung Districts.



- 14 -
Project Districts - Area under Major Foodgrains and Potatoes
1974/75 to 1976/77 Average
(Government Statistics)
District   Paddy   Maize   Wheat   Millet   Barley   Potato    Total
___________________- ('000 ha)------------__________-_
Gorkha      4.8      6.4      0.9       3.0      0.3       1.0       16.4
Lamjung      5.3     6.6      1.0       3.7       0.2      0.9       17.7
Tanahu       5.0     9.0      1.3       6.0      0.1       0.6       22.0
Syanja      9.5      6.2      2.2       8.9       -        0.3       27.1
Total      24.6    28.2       5.4      21.6      0.6       2.8       83.2 /a
/a   New land brought into production and the area under "other crops"
brings the present (1979/80) crop area to an estimated 85,600 ha.
B. Agricultural Production in the Project Area
Crop Production
3.09       The four project districts together annually produce about 146,000 t
of foodgrains or almost 13% of the output from all 39 Hill districts. This
production is composed of some 59,000 t of paddy, 54,000 t of maize, 26,000 t
of millet and almost 6,000 t of wheat. The production of potatoes amounts to
12,000 t.
3.10       Maize, important for both human consumption and as animal fodder
(both green and as crop residues), is grown primarily on rainfed terrace land
up to elevations of 2,600 m. Average yields of about 1.9 t/ha are mainly the
result of low soil fertility, low plant populations and lack of application
of insecticides, particularly against stem borer, army worms and caterpillars.
Virtually no fertilizer is applied to this crop. The variety Khumaltar Yellow
and several local varieties have been tested and found to be suitable for the
project area; seed is available.
3.11      Paddy is mostly grown under seasonal irrigation on valley bottoms
or terraced hillside land. The average yields of 2.4 t/ha, with four or five
t/ha not uncommon, reflect the generally better standards of husbandry applied
to this crop, particularly in the use of fertilizer. There remains, however,
potential for yield increases through the use of better varieties such as IR24,
Chianung 242, CH45 and T176 as the area under HYV is currently estimated at
only about 4% of the total area sown. Limitations in seed supplies have been
an important constraint to greater plantings of HYV.
3.12      Occupying an area of about 22,000 ha, finger millet is the third
most important foodgrain. It is grown entirely on rainfed terrace land and
generally relay planted with maize. The average yields of 1.25 t/ha are
moderately high. However, the potential for improvement is limited as there
are no improved varieties available.



- 15 -
3.13      As a result of an intensive promotional campaign under GADP and
the National Wheat Development Program, the area under winter wheat has almost
trebled since 1971 and in 1978/79 was estimated at 7,500 ha. Farmers grow the
crop on both irrigated and rainfed land. At about 1.1 t/ha, average yields
are quite low, mainly as a result of insufficient levels of fertilizer appli-
cation, low seed rates and poor irrigation facilities. Reportedly, as much as
90% of the area sown to wheat is under improved varieties, principally RR21.
3.14      Potatoes are cultivated on about 3,000 ha, mainly as a summer crop
on land above 2,000 m. At less than 5 t/ha, yields are low. This is largely
due to poor seed (which usually consists of small diseased tubers) and lack
of fertilizer, low plant density and losses from insect attack. Improved
husbandry and planting of improved varieties (Beauteaux, Kufri Jyoti) have
trebled yields in other parts of the Hills under similar conditions.
3.15      Pulses, mainly blackgram, are grown on about 4,500 ha of mostly
rainfed land and form an important part of the daily diet. Pulses are usually
planted towards the end of the monsoon season and interplanted with maize or
millet. No fertilizer or plant protection chemicals are applied and yields
are low with large annual variations depending on rainfall variations.
3.16      Oilseeds, mostly mustard, are not commonly grown and involve only
400 ha of rainfed land. Mustard is generally grown after maize and millet,
but is often intercropped with wheat. At higher elevations, it becomes an
increasingly important crop. Fodder legumes are grown to a very small extent,
mainly in winter. Vegetables, fruit and nuts are grown in small plots near
farm houses.
Cropping Patterns
3.17      Cropping patterns show considerable variation.  In addition to alti-
tude and soil quality they reflect such factors as slope, aspect, hail suscept-
ibility, and the micro-climatic conditions produced by the general topography.
The risk of crop failure from the highly variable rainfall is mitigated by
staggered planting dates and intercropping. The average cropping intensity is
about 150%, but on small farms, with reliable irrigation, it may be close to
200% and may even reach 300% in those areas where perennial irrigation is
fully assured.
Cultural Practices
3.18      A pair of bullocks and a simple wooden plough are used for land and
seedbed preparation. Where terraces are narrow, a hand hoe may replace ox
drawn equipment. When required, weeding and thinning are done by hand, using
a light hoe.
3.19      Most crop nutrients are supplied through applications of animal
manure rather than through use of fertilizer. Animals are kept close to
the dwelling houses, usually located on non-irrigated higher land, and it is
mainly for this reason that most manure is applied to the nearby maize/millet
crops. Generally, a manure heap is located near the house with all leaves
and household waste being added. There is considerable scope for improving



- 16 -
the quality of the end product through protecting the heaps from excessive
sunlight and rain.
3.20      Estimates of average fertilizer use are somewhat misleading.  Most
recent data suggest that the average amounts of nutrient applied per ha are
2.6 kg of N, 0.9 kg of P 205 and 0.4 kg of K 20.  However, many farmers apply
no fertilizer to rainfed crops, and use it almost exclusively on the wheat
and paddy crops. Few farmers have knowledge of disease and pest control and
the small amounts of insecticides that are distributed in the project area
are used by farmers growing HYV.
3.21      Crops are generally harvested by hand and paddy is threshed in the
field, while most of the other grains are stored in the village before use
and threshed during times of low labor demand.
Animal Production
3.22      The most serious constraint to livestock production is the feed
supply. Overgrazing by animals and the use of all cultivated land for food
crops (fodder is rarely grown) has led to a severe shortage of animal feed.
Ruminants subsist on crop stubbles, wasteland pastures and forest grazing.
3.23      The number and type of animals kept per household varies consider-
ably according to size of holding, location, and to some extent, altitude.
As indicated below, Syanja District accounts for the largest share of all
types of animals in the project districts.
Project Districts - Number of Farm Animals 1971/72
('000 head)
District       Buffalo      Cows     Oxen      Sheep    Goats      Pigs
Gorkha           54          46       41         4         64         3
Lamjung          41          35       29        12         46         3
Tanahu           35          48       39         2         66         9
Syanja          102        136        93        18        114        13
Total        232         265       202        36        290       28
3.24      Animal Health Services.  In the project area, a veterinary hospital,
employing a veterinarian, is located at Damauli in Tanahu district and a veter-
inary dispensary has been built in Syanja district alongside the agricultural
office. A recently constructed hospital, staffed by two veterinarians, is
located at Pokhara. Plans exist for construction of a further hospital at
Gorkha (in line with the national scheme to establish a hospital in each
district), but there is clearly a dearth of qualified veterinary staff through-
out the project area, at the professional, middle and lower level technical
levels. Drugs and medicines are sometimes available at hospitals, dispensaries
and at some village stores; farmers frequently comment that treatment is not
available for their livestock.



- 17 -
3.25      There are five livestock JTA in the project area, one located at
each of the district offices of Gorkha, Lamjung and Syanja districts and two
working out of Tanahu District. These technicians have training in animal
production and health obtained through a one-year course of training. They
provide a limited range of specialist services to farmers accessible within
a short distance of the district offices; hence, assistance is obtained by
only a small minority of livestock owners.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      Under the first IDA financed Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP),
Agricultural Service Centers (ASC) have been found to be effective as a focal
point for promoting development activities in remote rural areas. These centers
provide offices and housing for junior staff of the agricultural, animal
husbandry, cooperative and credit organizations and storage for agricultural
inputs and surplus production. Using the concept of ASC, the project would
attempt to rapidly increase food crop production in the Hill districts of
Gorkha, Lanjung, Syanja and Tanahu by constructing, equipping and staffing 20
ASC to provide a focal point for:
(a) improving agricultural extension, livestock development
and animal health services;
(b) improving the services provided by ADBN, AIC, and Sajhas;
and
(c) improving marketing through introduction of regular
market days.
In addition, the project would:
(a) provide funds for the purchase of 3,200 tons of fertilizer;
(b) improve about 3,000 ha of land presently farmed under
minor (less than 50 ha each) irrigation schemes;
(c) improve about 70 km of trails and construction of about
34 bridges to facilitate movement of agricultural inputs
and communications in the project area; and
(d) strengthen project activities by provision of monitoring
and evaluation and technical assistance.
4.02      Project management would be vested in the Ministry of Food and Agri-
culture (MFA). Overall responsibility for implementation would rest with the
Regional Director of Agriculture (RDA), Western Region, assisted by a Project
Coordinator (PC) and four DADO, one in each project district. Project commit-
tees at district and regional levels would assure cooperation among project



- 18 -
organizations, such as panchayats, AIC, ADBN, cooperatives, etc. At the
national level, the Director General of Agriculture would be responsible for
ensuring coordination with other departments. In recognition of a national
shortage of trained agricultural staff, the project would be implemented with
a minimum of additional staff. Increases in farmer level extension workers
would come from recruitment and training of progressive farmers who would be
employed on a part-time basis as agricultural assistants (AA) (para. 2.22).
4.03      Responsibility for project monitoring would be with DOA and periodic
progress reports would be prepared by the Regional Director of Agriculture.
Evaluation studies and the economic baseline survey that would be a prere-
quisite for these would be carried out by the Agricultural Projects Service
Center (APROSC), a semi-autonomous agency of 1DIG and substantially independent
of MFA (para 4.26).
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Service Centers (ASC)
4.04      Agricultural supportive services would be brought closer to farmers
by construction of 20 ASC. ASC would be established at points of high popula-
tion density and agricultural activity, and would take account of, as far as
possible, the basic district organization (which is normally subdivided into
nine areas for the purpose of election of representatives to the District
Panchayat). Thus, each ASC would serve four to six village panchayats and
cover an area of about 200 sq km and an average population of some 7,000 farm
families. Each center, constructed by the Agricultural Engineering Division
of DOA with local materials and of simple design would comprise offices and
housing for staff of the Agricultural, Livestock Development Departments,
ADBN and Sajhas. In addition, a veterinary dispensary, a 20-ton warehouse,
and a multipurpose building to be used for support staff training and other
group activities would be constructed. ASC would cost about NRs 785,000 each.
The total investment cost for the proposed 20 ASC would be NRs 14.8 M. During
negotiations, assurances were given by HMG that ASC would be constructed at
the locations named and indicated on IBRD Map 15049 and that HMG would provide
sufficient land for ASC; construction would be phased over about three years,
as scheduled in Annex 9, Table 4 (unless otherwise agreed between HMG and IDA).
4.05      Each ASC would be staffed by a JT (as officer-in-charge), three JTA
responsible for agricultural and livestock extension, and a representative of
ADBN, and the local Sajha. Ten AA responsible for agriculture and 5 AA for
livestock extension activities would work in the area served by each ASC (para.
4.15).
4.06      An ADBN loan assistant would be posted and housed at each ASC
(para. 4.17). This would result in a rapid expansion of ADBN coverage in
the project area. To improve AIC services for input supply service (which
presently does not extend beyond the district capital), the ASC warehouse
would provide storage and a sale point for fertilizers, insecticides, pesti-
cides, improved seed and simple agricultural implements. In addition, ASC



- 19 -
warehouse would be used for temporary storage of surplus grain purchased by
NFC or Sajhas (para. 4.18 and 4.19).
4.07      Given below is the proposed phasing for construction of Agricul-
tural Service Centers:
Cumulative Number of ASC Constructed
Project Year                   1        2         3
District
Gorkha                         2*       3         5
Lumjung                        2*       3         5
Syanja                         1*       3         5
Tanahu                         1*       3         5
Total              6        12       20
* At least one warehouse or JTA house constructed by
GADP available.
4.08      Agricultural Extension, Research and Training.  Under the project,
agricultural extension services would be strengthened and intensified in each
of the four districts. The project would provide hill farmers, on a systematic
basis, suitably modified to suit the rugged conditions prevailing in the proj-
ect area, with appropriate advice on low cost farming practices capable of
having an immediate impact on food crop production, increased availability
of livestock feed, and better animal health. Some examples of improved prac-
tices would include better seed bed preparation, line planting, application
of compost and fertilizer to rows, use of proper spacing, weeding, etc.
Initially, the emphasis would be on improved management practices. Farmers
often cannot get full benefits from purchased inputs or more costly invest-
ments until their farming practices have improved. The strengthening would
be brought about by improved supervision, through a regular system of extension
staff training and visits to farmers by field staff.
4.09      To ensure satisfactory levels of supervision, training and guidance
at the district level, the DADO would coordinate all project activities, inclu-
ding extension. Assisted by one AADO, he would provide technical guidance
to the JT in charge of ASC and assist in organizing training for JTA and AA.
Training would be provided for JT and JTA on a monthly basis at either district
headquarters or some other agreed location. Special training courses in crop
production and extension methodology would be organized for JT and JTA at the
Regional Training Center located near Khairenitar.
4.10      Operating from ASC, each JTA would supervise about five AA.  JTA
would visit AA on a regular basis and would work with them in encouraging
farmers to adopt recommendations, they would also conduct simple field demon-
strations. AA would receive extension messages from JT and JTA (joined by
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) and DADO as appropriate) at training sessions
held at ASC on a regular day each fortnight.



- 20 -
4.11      Each AA would be assigned 20 to 30 contact farmers who would each
represent about 10 to 20 farm families in the area in which they live. AA
would be responsible for providing practical agricultural advice to these
families through contact farmers. The families assigned to each AA would be
subdivided into eight small groups, usually of 50 to 80 farmers, from which
about 3 or 4 would be selected as contact farmers. Each group would be
visited on a given day during a two week cycle. The extension message to
be communicated to farmers in the initial stage would be simple, concentrating
on the most important aspects of crop cultivation. Initially, the emphasis
would be placed on improved cultural practices such as seed selection, plant-
ing of improved varieties, better use of compost, weed control and crop care.
At a later stage, use of inputs and more sophisticated cropping systems would
be recommended. Attention would be given to the safe use and handling of
pesticide. Annex I provides more detail on crop production.
4.12      The project would support the training activities described above
by ensuring that DADO, AADO and some JT would participate in the Extension
Program Planning and Implementation Course held regularly at the Regional
Training Center in Khairenitar. All officers, JT and JTA would meet from
time to time with SMS, research workers and experiment station staff for
training in new techniques and to identify practices to be recommended to
farmers during the ensuing months. Study tours to nearby countries and
attendance by SMS and others at special courses would be provided.
4.13      Adaptive testing to validate techniques developed at research
stations would be conducted by a small team of SMS under the control of the
Regional Director of Agriculture. The SMS teams consisting of agronomy,
plant protection and communications technicians would initially be trained
by specialists provided under the project's technical assistance component
(para 4.27). In the third year of the project, when experienced, SMS would
be assigned to districts. AADO, JT and JTA would participate in some of
these trials and would supervise the "mini kit program" (para 2.23). The
present availability of qualified staff able to conduct detailed research
is extremely limited and it appears more practical to depend on the research
being conducted in the Pumdi Bhumdi Pilot Extension Project near Pokhara
and upon visits of research workers from the national coordinated crop devel-
opment programs for guidance (see Annex 2).
4.14      Livestock Development and Animal Health.  To help improve animal
health and husbandry practices, the project would construct, staff and equip
a small veterinary dispensary at each ASC. Emphasis would be placed on
immunizing buffalo and cattle against rinderpest and hemorrhagic septicemia
and anthelmics would be provided for treatment of internal parasites. Over
the project period, it is anticipated that 120,000 doses each of vaccines and
drenches would be administered. In addition, advice to farmers on improved
livestock husbandry practices would be provided by a livestock JTA and five
AA attached to each ASC. Supervision and training would be provided by a JT
located at each district headquarters and one Project Officer (PO) located at
the PC's office.
4.15      Staff Requirements.  Staff for the two extension services (Agricul-
tural and Livestock Development) would be drawn from existing MFA personnel.
Incremental staff requirements are presented below:



- 21 -
PC  PO  DADO  AADO  SMS  JT  JTA   AA
Project requirements                     1   2   4      4    12  20    60   300
MFA staff available for project /a           -   3      3     -  14    39   120
Staff to be recruited                    1   2   1      1    12   6    21   180
/a   Assuming that about 75% of the existing MFA staff in the project dis-
tricts would be made available for the project. Staff who remain would
be engaged in other DOA programs such as horticulture and home science.
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN)
4.16      The project is expected to generate an increased demand for agri-
cultural credit. Incremental production credit would be made available to
cover the needs of seed replacement, purchase of fertilizer and other farm
chemicals, mainly for use on irrigated land. Medium-term credit would be
provided by ADBN for the purchase of improved tools, implements and draught
animals and for the improvement of irrigation facilities. At negotiation,
HMG agreed to review annually with the Association the credit needs of farmers
in the project area and provide adequate funds to ADBN for the purpose of
making loans to satisfy these needs. Furthermore, to facilitate the imple-
mentation of the credit program, HMG agreed at negotiations that the exist-
ing network of ADBN would be expanded under the project by attaching a loan
assistant financed by the Project to each of the proposed 20 ASC. Short
duration training programs for ADBN staff in basic accounting principles,
loan procedures and in general agriculture would be organized. Details are
given in Annex 3.
Sajha
4.17      The project would strengthen the Sajha (cooperative) movement by
providing training for Sajha managers in warehouse management, accounting
principles and general agriculture. A small warehouse at each of the ASC
would be available to Sajha to store fertilizers, seed, agricultural chem-
icals and consumer goods for distribution to members. Storage would also
be provided for surplus foodgrains for later resale to families living in
the project area.
Marketing
4.18      To reduce post harvest price depression, a current phenomena and one
that could be escalated by project success in increasing grain production, a
marketing program would be introduced during the second year of project imple-
mentation. This would be undertaken by Sahja or NFC. It is expected that
this program would require the Sahja and the NFC to purchase a minimum of 5%
of project generated grain production in project year 2 and 10% in year 3 and
thereafter. The grain purchased at harvest would generally be stored and be
available for resale in the area when needed. To facilitate this, regular
weekly market days would be held at each ASC. The JT-in-Charge of ASC and
the Sahja manager, would be responsible for the organization and management
of these markets. At negotiations assurances were obtained that a marketing
plan including financial arrangements acceptable to IDA would be submitted
for consideration by June 30, 1982. Details are given in Annex 3.



- 22 -
Input Procurement and Distribution
4.19      While for the most part, the extension programs would involve low
cost measures, use of fertilizers and other inputs would be increased if the
Hill areas are to become more self-sufficient. To ensure a reliable flow of
fertilizer to the country, a national fertilizer study will be prepared under
the Agricultural Extension and Research Project (being presented simultaneously
with this project). As a part of this study, AIC, ADBN, and Sajha would be
examined, and recommendations made for improving, procurement, distribution,
storage, financing, and credit arrangements. Pending the implementation of
such a program, the project would finance two years of total fertilizer needs
of the project area. The estimated needs of farmers would be 1,310 t and
1,900 t in project years 1 and 2, respectively. Sajha/AIC would sell fertil-
izer at uniform prices throughout the project area. The project would aid
farmers in the project area by extending AIC services, including the delivery
of fertilizers to ASC warehouses for later distribution through Sajha. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations from HMG that all fertilizer purchased
with project funds would be sold and used exclusively in the project districts.
The project would support training of AIC personnel in accounting principles
and in use of agricultural inputs at the AIC training center located at
Kathmandu and at Khairenitar. Each ASC would be provided with hand operated
seed cleaning and treating equipment. Details are given in Annex 3.
Minor Irrigation
4.20      Project activities would be oriented towards the improvement of
existing gravity systems and have the objective of converting these from
seasonal to perennial irrigation. The project program would:
(a)  convert about 2,000 ha of existing seasonally irrigated
land to full perennially irrigated status;
(b)  convert about 200 ha of land from rainfed to perennially
irrigated status;
(c)  upgrade about 500 ha of existing seasonally irrigated land
by construction of improved irrigation structures; and
(d)  upgrade about 300 ha of existing rainfed land to seasonally
irrigated status.
4.21      The above would generally require the following remodelling works:
(a)  linking the irrigable area to a permanent water source
by means of headworks and a main canal; and
(b)  constructing headworks involving simple but permanent intakes
of the trench type weir, with movable controls and silt
extraction arrangements. In smaller schemes, the intake
could be of the side weir type with fixed or movable controls.
Canals would be hand-excavated and generally remain unlined. Highly erosive
sections would be piped, using concrete pipe for larger capacities and plastic



- 23 -
pipe for the smaller ones. They would be flumed across gullies and cross-
drainage channels provided by open reinforced concrete flumes. Stone masonry
culverts would be used across smaller gullies. In design and construction,
special attention would be given to slope stability problems.
4.22       Proj-_t irrigation works would be carried out by the Farm Irrigation
and Water Utilization Division (FIWU) of DOA. The project would provide
staff, equipment, buildings, materials, operating expenses and technical
assistance. The average cost of improved or created irrigated land is esti-
mated at about NR 10,000/ha. At least 10,000 families are likely to benefit
from this component. Further details are given in Annex 4.
Trails and Bridges
4.23       Trails.  Much of the project area is dependent on a network of
trails. Bridges are insufficient in number to enable all year-round crossing
of rivers and torrents, and landslides and gullying often preclude use of
trails for varying periods. This has a negative impact on the movement of
agricultural inputs and produce, construction material and people. Under the
project, approximately 25% (70 km) of the existing 292 km of trails in the
project area would be improved.
4.24       Improvement works would include:
(a) rebuilding by cut and fill of sections that have been
damaged or destroyed by landslides; construction of stone
steps; occasional simple cross drainage, tree and grass
planting for erosion protection; and
(b) realignment of sections that presently lead through inten-
sively cultivated areas, especially paddy fields.
4.25       Bridges.  About 30 medium to small and 4 major suspension bridges
would be constructed under the project to allow all-weather passage of the
most important trails in project districts.  The medium and small bridges
would be of an average length of about 50 m. All would be of the common,
suspended type, simple in design and consisting largely of components manu-
factured within Nepal. Major bridges would be of the suspension type and
be 80 m to 90 m in length. Construction of trails and bridges would be
supervised by the DTO or, in the case of major bridges, by MLD. Details are
given in Annex 5.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.26      Monitoring of project implementation would be conducted on a day-
to-day basis by PC and DADO. Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared
by DADO, consolidated by PC, and on behalf of the RDA, forwarded to the
Director General of Agriculture and IDA. The PC would be aided by a monitor-
ing unit (MU) attached to his office. Evaluation of the impact of the project
on overall food production would involve an initial baseline survey and
subsequent surveys when project implementation is under way or complete. The



- 24 -
Agriculture Project Service Center (APROSC), under the direction of the
Director General of Agriculture, would be responsible for this work.  Tech-
nical assistance (para 4.27) provided under the project would be employed to
develop appropriate procedures for monitoring and evaluation and interpreta-
tion of data.
Technical Assistance
4.27      To assist project implementation, 84 man-months of technical assist-
ance would be provided through a U1JNDP financed Technical Assistance Project.
The assistance would be in the fields of: agronomy and field experimentation
(44 man-months), extension training and communications (20 man-months), and
identification and design of minor irrigation schemes (20 man-months).
Assistance would also be made available to the Project Coordinator in project,
monitoring and evaluation (6 man-months). Both national and international
experts would be considered for these assignments. Funds would also be
included for SMS training at international research centers and short training
visits to extension and research programs in South Asia. During negotiations,
H1MG assured that not later than April 30, 1981 they would make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for provision of funds for technical assistance.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Project costs are estimated at US$9.7 M, of which the foreign
exchange component would be US$3.0 M. Duties and taxes included in total
costs are estimated at US$50,000. Details of costs, summarized below, are
in Annex 9.



- 25 -
Summary Cost Estimate
By Components
% of
Local                     Local                 Total
M     F.E.   Total        M    F.E.  Total   Cost
-------- NR M                    US ------US$ X-
Development of ASC               14.1    0.7    14.8    1.18   0.05   1.23    13
Agricultural Extension
Service                         5.5    3.1      8.6    0.46   0.26   0.72        7
Animal Health and
Livestock Development           1.5    0.4      1.9    0.12   0.04   0.16        2
Staff for ADBN                    0.6     -       0.6    0.05    -       0.05       1
Purchase of Total Fertilizer   3.8   10.8    14.6    0.32   0.90   1.22    12
Training, ADBN, AIC, Sajha        0.3      -      0.3    0.02    -        0.02     -
Construction of Trails
and Bridges                    4.4    1.8       6.2    0.37   0.15   0.52        5
Development of Minor
Irrigation                    28.7    3.7    32.4    2.39   0.31   2.70    28
Technical Assistance              0.3    7.8      8.1    0.03   0.64   0.67         7
Base Cost                        59.2   28.3    87.5    4.94   2.35   7.29    75
Physical Contingencies            6.7    0.8      7.5    0.56   0.07   0.63        7
Price Contingencies              14.5    7.0    21.5    1.20   0.58   1.78    18
Total                      80.4   36.1   116.5    6.70   3.00   9.70   100
By Category
X of
Local                     Local                 Total
M     F.E.   Total        M    F.E.  Total   Cost
------- NR M --           ------US$ M   --
Civil Works
ASC                           14.1     0.7    14.8       1.18  0.05   1.23   13
Irrigation                   25.9      2.9    28.8       2.16  0.24   2.40   25
Trails & Bridges              4.4      1.8      6.2      0.37  0.15   0.52    5
Subtotal                  44.4      5.4    49.8       3.71  0.44   4.15   43
Vehicles                         0.2      2.2     2.4      0.02  0.18   0.20    2
Equipment & Furniture            0.8      0.4     1.2      0.07  0.03   0.10    1
Fertilizer                       3.8    10.8    14.6       0.32  0.90   1.22   12
Incremental Staff               5.8      -        5.8      0.48   -      0.48    5
Incremental Operating Costs   3.1         1.7     4.8      0.23  0.16   0.39    4
Training All Local               0.8     -        0.8      0.08   -       0.08    1
Technical Assistance             0.3      7.8     8.0      0.03  0.64   0.67    7
Base Cost                       59.2    28.3    87.5       4.94  2.35   7.29   75
Contingencies
Physical                      6.7      0.8      7.5      0.56  0.07   0.63    7
Price                        14.5      7.0    21.5       1.20  0.58   1.78   18
Total                     80.4    36.1   116.5        6.70  3.00   9.70  100



- 26 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on findings of the mission during appraisal
and updated to August 1980. Physical contingencies, to meet unforeseen
expenditures, have been added at rates of 15% for buildings, irrigation works
and trails. Price contingencies, totalling 25% of base costs, calculated in
accordance with Bank estimates of future price movements in Nepal 1/ are also
included.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      Financing to cover total project costs of NR 118 M (US$9.8 M),
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
Other
Technical      Development               % of
Assistance        Costs        Total    Total
--------------US$ M--------______
HMG                    -               0.85         0.85        9
UNDP                  0.85              -           0.85       9
IDA                    -              8.00         8.00       82
TOTAL               0.85            8.85         9.70      100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$8 M would finance all foreign exchange costs
amounting to US$2.2 M (excluding technical assistance) and about 80% of
local costs. Prior to negotiations, assurances were obtained that HMG had
made budgetary provisions to permit an early start to staff training and
recruitment of staff.
5.04      The proposed IDA Credit would be channeled, through the Ministry
of Finance (MOF), to implementing agencies.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
5.05      Procurement of equipment, furniture, vehicles and fertilizers involv-
ing contracts above US$100,000 and expected to aggregate about US$1.2 M would
be on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Where costs of contracts or equipment packages are below
US$100,000, procurement would be through HMG local procedures satisfactory to
the Association. Because of inaccessibility of the project area and the small
size of individual civil works schemes (U$$65,000 for each ASC and about
US$18,000 for irrigation schemes) it would not be practical to group civil
works contracts for ICB. Consequently, these would be undertaken either by
1/   Currently estimated on expected international and domestic price escala-
tions of 9%, and 8% per annum for 1981, and 1982, respectively, and 7%
thereafter.



- 27 -
MFA, MLD or MOWT, using local paid labor, or by local contractors in accord-
ance with established HMG petty contracting procedures acceptable to IDA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above mentioned procedures
would be followed.
5.06      Disbursement of Credit funds would be on the following basis:
(a)  95% of expenditures for civil works carried out by con-
tractors or by force account;
(b)  100% of expenditures for directly imported fertilizer,
furniture and vehicles, and for locally manufactured goods
(ex factory); and 80% for other goods procured locally;
(c)  55% of total expenditures for salaries and allowances
of all staff engaged in the project in agriculture and
animal health, minor irrigation (FIWU) and ADBN loan
assistants (calculated to be equivalent to 95% of incre-
mental salaries and allowances);
(d)  95% of incremental operating costs for agricultural exten-
sion, animal health and minor irrigation; and
(e)  95% of expenditures for local training.
5.07      Disbursement for civil works carried out by force account and by
local contracts involving US$5,000 equivalent or less and against expenditures
for staff salaries, incremental operating costs, and training above; would be
made against statements of expenditure, certified by the Secretary of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. Documents supporting statements of expendi-
ture would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by HMG,
and would be made available for inspection and review by accredited IDA repre-
sentatives during project supervision. Requests for disbursement against
other items would be fully documented. Disbursement estimates are given in
Annex 7.
5.08      AIC would be responsible for the procurement of fertilizer from the
international market through ICB. Funds for technical assistance would be
channeled from UNDP under existing procedures.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.09      The project would be subject to normal government financial control
and audit procedures which are satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that HMG, within the framework of its own accounting and budget
system would: (a) record all project expenditures under a separate head of
account in accordance with sound accounting procedures; (b) furnish to the
Association as soon as available but not later than nine months after the
end of each year certified copies of financial statements for the year; and
(c) cause these records and accounts to be audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principes consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association.



- 28 -
5.10      Under current practices, financial statements are prepared by the
Financial Controller of MFA (who is a first class gazetted officer seconded
by the Accountant General's office).  Financial Statements are reconciled
quarterly and are the basis of an internal audit carried out by the Account-
ant General's office, which then forwards these statements to the Auditor
General for the purpose of external audit. An audit report is then prepared
by the Auditor General and after approval by the National Panchayat will be
made available to the Association.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
6.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would be vested
in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. The Regional Director of Agriculture
would be responsible for day-to-day management, assisted by a Project Manager
(PC). At the district level, the District Agricultural Development Officers
(DADO) would be in charge. Project committees would assure coordination with
organizations such as MLD, MOWT, MOHP, AIC, ADBN, cooperatives and line depart-
ments, at district and regional levels. At the national level, the Director
General of Agriculture would be responsible for coordination with other
departments. An implementation schedule is presented in Annex 8.
B. Management
6.02      The project does not envisage any departure from the standard pro-
cedural rules of Government in so far as they apply to planning, approval,
budgetary procedures or the responsibilities of the Ministries of Agriculture
or Finance relating to budgetary submissions, approvals and transfers.
6.03      Each DADO, with assistance from the PC would prepare a project plan
of work as part of the overall District Development Plan (DDP) for his district.
This would be done in consultation with the local agencies and the district
panchayat. Participating ministries/agencies would then provide technical
clearance of their components through their designated project officers. DDP
would then be submitted to the District Coordinating Committee and Regional
Coordinating Committee for approval (see para 6.07). Individual components
of the plan would then be implemented under the direct supervision of the
technical functionaries of the concerned ministries, under the overall guidance
of DADO, and with the support and cooperation of the district panchayat.
Assurances were obtained that the agricultural and livestock portions of
District Development Plans would be made available to IDA not later than May
15 of each year for comment and that HMG would make budgetary allocations to
districts in amounts sufficient for their timely execution.
Project and District Coordinators
6.04      The Project Coordinator, a Class I officer of HMG, would be stationed
at Regional Headquarters at Pokhara and report to the Regional Director of



- 29 -
Agriculture (RDA). PC would provide administrative support to development
programs at district level. In the districts, the DADO would report through
the PC to RDA. PC would play an important role in preparation of financial
estimates and would assist DADO in the preparation of DDP and detailed imple-
mentation schedules. Although PC would primarily assist and supervise in the
implementation of the project, he would also have the responsibility of
drawing disputes and conflicting priorities, irreconcilable at district level,
to the attention of the Regional Coordinating Committee (RCC). Upon request,
the PC would also provide assistance and advice to central line departments
of Government in the timing, phasing and content of their inputs to district
plans. PC would present DDP to RCC in good time for endorsement and would
assist the District Coordinating Committee in making any subsequent revisions
which may be considered necessary by RCC to ensure timely submission to RCC
for approval. Finally, PC would monitor the process whereby each concerned
ministry and agency makes identifiable budgetary requests for financial
provision to implement the planned project components and would collate such
requests for the Ministry of Finance, through MFA. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that, not later than April 30, 1981, a full time Project Coor-
dinator would be appointed with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association.
6.05      Although withdrawals from the IDA Credit would be by way of indivi-
dual applications by line departments, through their ministries to the MOF,
accounting responsibilities would remain with the Accountant General. For
easier administration, PC would be delegated responsibility for submitting
withdrawal requests to IDA.
6.06      PC would be assisted by two Program Officers (PO) and a Disburse-
ment Unit (DU) and Monitoring Unit (MU) located at regional headquarters.
PO, one for agriculture and the other for livestock development and health
would assist the PC in his duties. DU would be responsible for preparing all
disbursement requests for submission to IDA, in consultation with the appro-
priate ministry. DU would consist of an accounts assistant and supporting
staff. MU would be staffed by an economist or sociologist, two enumerator/
tabulators and supporting staff. MU would be responsible, under supervision
of PC, for preparing semi-annual progress reports.
Coordinating Committees
6.07      Coordination with programs and policies of other government agencies
working at the regional, district and Agricultural Service Center levels would
be achieved through the following committees:
(a) Regional Coordinating Committee would be established to
conduct the planning and implementation of the project
and to identify and resolve problems and to ensure coor-
dination of project activities with DDP. The chairman
would be the RDA and members would include: regional heads
of MOWT, MLD ADBN, AIC, Department of Cooperatives, NFC and
District CDO. The secretary would be the Project Coordinator.
The committee would meet at least three times per year.
The minutes of these meetings would be submitted to the
Secretary of MFA.



- 30 -
(b) District Coordinating Committee are presently established
to coordinate activities of the various agencies at district
level. The committee would, in conformity with DDP, review
project plans, assign priorities for implementation, assist
DADO to obtain and arrange needed goods and services. The
chairman would be the Chairman of the District Panchayat
and the secretary would be the DADO. Members would be
district heads of AIC, ADBN, DTO and include the members of
the District Panchayat. The committee would meet monthly.
Minutes of meetings would be submitted to the RDA through
the PC.
The coordinating committees would report on the effectiveness of current
recommendations and project program emphasis, manpower availability, progress
of training programs, progress of construction work, agriculture extension,
irrigation schemes, and schemes for trail improvement. Ensuring timely
availability of credit and agricultural imports aic special responsibilities
of these committees (Annex 3). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Regional and District Coordinating Committees would meet to discuss
project affairs.
6.08      Management of the ADBN and AIC would be strengthened by formalized
contact with the project officers in the district and regional coordinating
committees, the minutes of which would be available to the Secretary of MFA
and the Director General of Agriculture who is responsible for coordination
at the national level and to the Managing Directors of AIC and ADBN. The
project would provide training in management for ADBN, AIC and Sajha personnel.
Project Staffing
6.09      Existing levels of staff of participating departments would be
supplemented by additional project staff (Annex 9). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that all Agriculture (Extension), Livestock Development and
Animal Health incremental staff positions specified in Annex 9, Table 2 and 3
would be permanent and that they would be appointed as scheduled.
VII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND INCOMES
Crops and Cropping Patterns
7.01      During the project implementation period it is expected that only
50% of the farmers in the area of the ASCs will participate in the program.
As discussed in Chapter II and Annex 1, the principal crops grown in the proj-
ect area are foodgrains, pulses and potatoes. The prevailing rotations are
based on paddy, in the case of irrigated areas, and maize, on nonirrigated
lands. Present cropping intensity is about 150% and present cropping patterns
are well-suited to existing agro-ecological conditions. Under the project,
the only changes expected are to be increases in the area planted to wheat,
potatoes and fodder legumes. The project is expected to lead to increases
in planting HYV paddy and higher yields from maize as the result of better
placement of farm yard manure and use of fertilizers and insecticides.



- 31 -
Improvements to irrigation (conversion of 500 ha of rainfed land to irrigated
and upgrading of 2,500 ha presently irrigated) (para 4.20) would also lead
to increased production because of assured water supplies. Assumed yield
increases shown in the table below are phased over four years and are, broadly,
25% for paddy, 30% for maize, 20% for millet, 45% for wheat, 20% for pulses,
and nearly 40% for potatoes. These are average figures and take into account
the risk of crop failure (para 7.02). These estimates of yield increases are
based largely on increases already achieved in areas where improved extension,
communications and agricultural credit have been provided in recent years,
notably in the Kathmandu Valley and in Rasuwa and Nuwakot districts (para
2.39). Yield assumptions are conservative compared to those achieved on
research farms, but reflect the limitations imposed by the lack of government
organizations, economic constraints facing small farmers and poor communica-
tions. Changes envisaged are set out in the table below:
Crop Area, Yields and Production
Present                                  Future
(Estimated 1979/80)         Without Project             With Project
Area   Yield   Prod.    Area    Yield   Prod.    Area   Yield*  Prod.
Crop      '000 ha   t/ha  '000 t  '000 ha    t/ha  '000 t  '000 ha   t/ha  '000 t
Paddy       24.6    2.4    59.0    26.0         2.4    62.4      28.0      3.0   74.0
Maize        28.2    1.9    53.6    26.0        2.0    52.0       24.0     2.5   61.0
Millet       21.6    1.2    26.0    20.0        1.2    24.0       18.0     1.4   24.3
Wheat         5.4    1.1      6.0     7.0       1.1      7.6      8.5      1.6    9.9
Pulses        3.0    0.5      1.6     5.0       0.5      2.6       5.8     0.6    3.3
Potatoes      2.8    4.4    12.4      3.6       4.4    15.8       4.8      6.0   25.0
Oilseeds
& Others    -       -        -      0.7       1.0      0.7      1.2      1.0    1.2
Total       85.6                     88.3                        90.3
Crop
Intensity  150%                     156%                        160%
*    Future yields with project are yields expected from participating farmers
(about 50% of those in the project area). Non-participating farmers are
expected to obtain yields similar to those indicated under the "Future
Without Project" situation.
Farmers' Risk and Crop Failure
7.02      The uncertain rainfall and weather pattern and the occurrence of
hail and unseasonal frosts lead to risks of crop failure. Farmers have,
however, evolved a farming system which mitigates the risk element (e.g., by
owning several fragments of land, each located at different altitudes, and
each having differing aspects and by practicing mixed cropping and staggered
planting dates). Consequently, the project does not propose to change but
rather reinforce present practices. Potatoes and blackgram are high-risk
crops and failure occurs approximately two years in ten; maize is a moderately



- 32 -
risky crop, failure occurring approximately one year in ten; and paddy, wheat,
soybean, millet and mustard are very low-risk crops and complete failure
almost never occurs. The risk of low yields in these crops is, of course,
always present. It is difficult to accurately represent the risk element in
farm models, but risk has been taken into account when arriving at the average
yield assumptions.
Incremental Production
7.03      Increases in crop production would be largest for paddy, maize and
potatoes. At full development, annual paddy production is expected to be
11,600 tons above present levels. Maize would increase by about 9,000 tons,
wheat by 2,300 tons, potatoes by 9,200 tons and millet, pulses, and oilseeds
by 300, 700 and 1,200 tons, respectively.
7.04      Increases from livestock production, through the provision of more
adequate health services, and particularly through better feeding, would
eventually lead to higher output of milk and meat, but this has not been
quantified.
Marketing
7.05      All project districts are classified as food deficit districts.
Most of the increased crop production would be consumed on the farm to meet
subsistence needs. Much of the incremental animal production would occur
in Syanja district with good road connections to India. Hence, no problems
are foreseen in the absorption of incremental production resulting from
project actions. NFC/Sajha would participate in marketing (para 4.18) by
purchasing up to 5% of the grain produced in the second year and up to 10%
in subsequent years at government approved prices.
Farm Incomes
7.06      Two basic farm models have been developed to illustrate farming pat-
terns in the project area. To allow for different farming conditions resulting
from climatic factors, elevation, accessibility, soil type, hail susceptibility,
each basic model has been subdivided into high and low production potential.
The high production potential models are assumed to have perennial irrigation.
It should be noted that given the very small farm size (.02 ha.) and rainfed
conditions of agriculture, farm production can never rise to the level of
fulfilling total family subsistence requirements. Small farmers with irriga-
tion should, however, be able to raise productivity to this level. Expected
increases are shown in the table below.
7.07      Small farmers represent about 72% of all farm holdings and account
for about 43% of the cultivated area to be covered under the project. Medium
and large farmers represent about 28% of farmers involved and 57% of the cul-
tivated area. As a result of the project, farm income would increase by 20%
for small farmers and 26% for medium/large farmers.



- 33 -
GRAIN PRODUCED AND INCOME BY FARM MODEL
Future
Without          With
Farmers  Total         Present        Project          Project
Area  Poten- Partici-  Area    Prod   Value   Prod.  Value  Prod.  Value
Model Farmed  tial   pating  Farmed    Kg         NR       Kg      NR      Kg     NR
la    0.2   low    42,000   8,400        549   1,486       560  1,851    720  2,177
lb    0.2   high   14,100   2,810        707   1,730       780  2,155  1,084  2,718
2a    0.8   low    13,300  10,150   2,183   4,711   2,144  5,560  2,670  6,784
2b    0.8   high    5,400   4,350   2,839   5,585   2,801  6,576  3,790  8,931
Total /a              75,000  25,750
/a   The total represents about 50% of the farmers and cultivated area in
project districts.
Cost Recovery
7.08      There would be no direct recovery of incremental costs for develop-
ment of ASC, agricultural extension, livestock and animal health services,
training, or constiuction of trails and bridges. Farmers would contribute
construction labor and provide maintenance for minor irrigation schemes improved
under the project. About two thirds of the cost of fertilizer purchased by AIC
would be recovered from farmers (para 4.19).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The principal benefit of the project would be increased production
of food crops. It is expected that about one half of the 147,000 farm families
in the project districts would participate in the project. Of these, 8,000
small farm families, with holdings of up to 0.4 ha, would raise their production
to be able to meet minimum subsistence levels (1,300 kg grain/family) and
18,000 medium size farm families, with holdings above 0.4 ha, would generate
small foodgrain surpluses. The remaining 50,000 small farm families having
rainfed land would also increase food production by about 30%, but due to the
small size of farm, this would not be sufficient to attain full subsistence.
However, this increased production would bring considerable financial savings
to government which now moves grain from the Terai, for sale in deficit areas
at highly subsidized prices.
8.02       In addition, increased food supplies generated by improved cultural
practices would help reduce pressures to extend cultivation to marginal
slopes, and slow and possibly reverse, the present trend of declining crop
yields. The promotion of fodder legumes would increase the supply of animal
feed and thus, help reduce erosion on overgrazed areas.
8.03       Agricultural Service Centers, established at points of high con-
centration of population and agricultural activity, would bring government



- 34 -
services to areas which have been devoid of these in the past. The improve-
ments of trails leading to ASC and constructing new suspension bridges should
bring about major savings in time to farmers and others, although these
benefits have not been quantified.
8.04      Through the introduction of more permanent structures and improved
functional designs (e.g., piping instead of open canal in landslide-prone
zones), the reliability of irrigation in the project area would be improved,
thereby reducing the susceptibility of the area to vagaries of weather and
landslides due to better engineering and water control. Furthermore, require-
ments for repair and maintenance of irrigation systems would be reduced,
thus enabling farmers to spend more time on other productive activities.
8.05      The improvement of irrigation schemes, the trail and bridge program,
and construction activities in connection with the establishment of ASC would
generate a considerable demand for labor. Over the project period, construc-
tion would provide about 4 M mandays of employment.
8.06      Economic Evaluation.  Assumptions underlying the economic evaluation
of the project are:
(a) the standard conversion factor is 0.9 for all non-traded
goods;
(b)  the opportunity cost for labor is NR 4.4/manday;
(c)  traded goods are valued at their market value; and
(d)  the opportunity cost for capital is 12%.
Streams of incremental costs and value of production, investment costs and
overhead expenses are determined for each project year. Shadow prices have
been used to correct price distortions of non-traded goods and services caused
by tariffs and trade restrictions and to reflect seasonal characteristics of
the labor market.
8.07      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the assumptions in Annex 6 on costs
and benefits of the entire project to the economy, and discounting these costs
and benefits over the project's estimated life of 20 years the economic rate
of return (ERR) is in excess of 50% (Annex 6, Table 5). The ERR for the
irrigation component is 16%.
8.08      Sensitivity Analysis.  Important project risks are:  delay in achiev-
ing benefits from project investments, failure to achieve projected crop
yields, increased farm input costs and increase in investment costs due to
higher costs of foreign manufactured goods. A sensitivity analysis was
carried out to illustrate which assumptions are most sensitive to variations
and, therefore, crucial to the success of the project. Switching 1/ values
1/   Switching value is the value of a variable that reduces the net present
value of the project to equal to zero.



- 35 -
for a 12% discount rate were calculated for four variables, and the result is
as follows:
1.   Benefits                         delay five years
2.   Incremental crop production    minus 50%
3.    irm input costs                 plus 277%
4.   Investment cost                   plus 477%
The project seems to be insensitive to these variables. Project costs would
have to increase by over two and a half times over the project life or yields
drop by 50% to reduce the ERR to 12%.
8.09      A further risk is the availability and willingness of government
staff to live and work at the ASC and visit farmers in nearby areas. The
project is designed to minimize this risk by providing housing and facilitat-
ing communications by improving trails and bridges.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from HMG on the following:
(a)  ASC would be constructed at the locations named and indi-
cated on IBRD Map 15049 and as scheduled in Annex 9 Table
4 unless otherwise agreed between HMG and IDA (para 4.04);
(b)  HMG would provide sufficient land for ASC (para 4.04);
(c)  IMG would review annually with the Association, the credit
needs of farmers in the project area and provide adequate
funds to ADBN for the purpose of making loans to satisfy
the needs agreed upon (para 4.16);
(d)  the existing network of ADBN would be expanded by assign-
ing a loan assistant to each ASC (para 4.16);
(e)  HMG would provide a marketing plan acceptable to IDA by
June 30, 1982 (para 4.18);
(f)  HMG would ensure that all fertilizer purchased with project
funds would be sold and used in the project districts
(para 4.19);
(g)  HMG, by not later than April 30, 1981, make satisfactory
arrangements for the provision of funds for technical
assistance (para 4.27);
(h)  International competitive bidding would be followed, in
accordance with IDA guidelines, for the purchase of imported
equipment, furniture, vehicles and fertilizers. Orders for
goods below US$100,000 would be purchased following HMG
procedures (para 5.05);



- 36 -
(i)  Separate accounts would be kept by participating Government
Ministries, ADBN, AIC, NFC and Cooperatives and these would
be audited annually and a report submitted to the Association
within nine months of the close of fiscal year (para 5.09);
(i) Agricultural portions and livestock portions of District
Development Plans would be available to IDA for comment no
later than May 15 of each year, and that HMG would make
budgetary allocations to districts in amounts sufficient
for their timely execution (para 6.03);
(k) A full time Project Coordinator would be appointed, by April 30,
1981, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association (para 6.04);
(1)  HMG would establish and maintain the Regional Coordinating
Committee and this committee would meet at least three times
a year to discuss project affairs. Further that, the District
Coordinating Committees would be maintained and would meet
monthly to discuss project affairs (para 6.07); and
(m)  All Agriculture Extension and Department of Livestock Develop-
ment and Animal Health incremental staff positions specified
in Annex 9 Tables 2 and 3 would be permanent and that they be
appointed as scheduled (para 6.09).
9.02      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a credit of US$8 M to HMG on standard IDA terms.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page  1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Crop and Animal Production and Food Balances
Crops and Cropping Patterns
1.        Principal crops grown in the area are paddy, maize, millet, wheat,
oilseeds and potatoes. Various legumes such as soybeans, horse beans and
blackgram are grown on field margins or interplanted with maize. Two
basic cropping patterns, with several minor variations, are used: the ones
for irrigated lands are paddy based, while those for rainfed land are maize
based.
2.        Paddy is the preferred crop and is grown wherever possible.
Population pressure is forcing the cultivation of higher yielding coarse
grain rice varieties and higher yielding maize. In the project area, 25,000
ha are devoted to paddy production, with 75% of the crop paddy rice and 25%
upland rice.
3.        Maize is the principal crop on rainfed land (28,000 ha) but at
present only a small percentage is grown on irrigated land. Yields are
generally low by world standards and there is great potential for improving
maize yields.
4.        The third most important crop is millet which occupies 22,000 ha.
Most of the millet is relay cropped with maize or pulses. Only at higher
elevations where the growing season is short is it grown in pure stands.
5.        Wheat now occupies an area of about 5,400 ha during the winter
growing season. The area planted to wheat has expanded rapidly in recent
years and is expected to cover most of the perenially irrigated land in the
near future. The use of fertilizer will need to be increased to maintain
present soil fertility levels under the increased cropping pressure. In areas
where wheat is included in the cropping systems, yields of rice and other
summer crops have declined in the absence of adequate fertilizer applications.
Average wheat yields are about 1.1 tons/ha which is low by world standards.
Low soil fertility and poor plant stands are primary causes of the low average
yields. Following paddy rice, seedbed preparation is difficult when conven-
tional plowing and clod breaking methods are employed. Research on different
seeding methods is needed.
6.         Potatoes are currently grown on about 2,800 ha as a summer crop
above 2,000 m and as a winter crop at lower elevations. At about 4.4 tons/ha,
yields are very low and potatoes appear to be a crop with excellent potential
for yield improvement. If the results of available research in seed production
and storage can be extended and utilized, potato yields should easily exceed 8
to 10 tons/ha.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
7.        Pulses occupy about 4,500 ha in the project area, usually grown in
crop mixtures. Black gram (Phaseolus mungo) and horse gram (Dolichos biflous)
are the most important pulses, followed closely by soybeans (Glycine max).
8.        Mustard is the principal oilseed crop and is grown on about 4,500
ha. Most of it is sowr. after the maize/millet crop or mixed with wheat.
Small amounts of niger (Guizotia abyssinica) and groundnuts are also grown as
oilseeds.
Crops and Crop Production Under the Project
9.        Under the project, it is anticipated that a slight increase in the
use of fertilizer and improved crop management will increase maize yields
by 0.5 to 0.6 tons/ha. Improved short duration varieties could further
help increase yields. A substantial increase in paddy production is expected,
due primarily to an accelerated acceptance of HYV Ponlai varieties (CH45,
Taichung) as has already occurred in the Kathmandu Valley. Improved avail-
ability of fertilizers and pesticides is expected to contribute substantially
to acceptance of HYV. Improvement in the supply of irrigation water to part
of the project area will also help increase average yields. Improved fertil-
ity in relay cropped maize fields is expected to provide a slight increase in
millet yields. Wheat production would be expected to increase both in area
and in yield under the impact of a revitalized extension service. A modest
increase of 0.4 ton/ha is projected which would be achieved through improve-
ment of seeding, irrigation and soil fertility. The yield of pulses is
expected to remain constant until enough cereal grains are produced to satisfy
the demand. It is anticipated that both area and yields for potatoes will
double, increasing to 6 tons/ha due to improved seed potato storage.
Animal Production
10.       Constraints to livestock production include lack of feed and
adequate veterinary health coverage. To help farmers, the project would
improve advice given to farmers on the care and feeding of livestock and
would initiate programs for inoculation and dosing of livestock. Emphasis
would be placed on vaccine for the control of hemorrhagic septicemia and
rinderpest. Anthelmics for the control of internal parasites would also
be provided in the project area through 20 livestock JTA and 100 AA. One
JTA and 5 AA would be-posted at each Agricultural Service Center (ASC).
During the first year of the project, staff would be recruited and trained.
11.       One of the most serious problems in the hills is the lack of an
adequate feed supply for the ever increasing animal population. The project
would help to alleviate this problem in two ways: (1) by the increase in
crop residues that will come with increased crop production; and (2) through
the extension effort to promote the overseeding of forage legumes in paddy
fields that would otherwise lie fallow.
12.       No increase in income from livestock is projected for two reasons.
First, the ever increasing pressure on forest and grazing land will probably
reduce the amount of forage available per animal. Secondly, the success of



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
overseeding legumes in paddy has not yet been adequately tested. It is hoped
that the incrc,re in crop residue will offset the reduced amount of forage
from forest and grazing lands. Any increase from overseeding legumes in paddy
will be an additional benefit. Lentils, field peas and vetch would be most
likely to succeed in an overseeding operation. A seeding rate of 20 kgs/ha
would be needed; thus 244 tons of forage legume seed would be needed to cover
the paddy in the project area.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Population, Adult Consumption Units and Caloric Requirement
Population (4 districts)                  840,000
Population (in area of influence)          420,000
Adult Consumption Units (x .75)            315,000
Caloric Requirements/Year                (millions)
Average Subsistence (2500 cals/day)   290,000
Minimum Subsistence (2000 cals/day)   230,000
Cereal Requirement/day 1/
Average Subsistence                     787.5 g
Minimum Subsistence                     630.0 g
1/ Caloric value of 100 g; rice = 354 cal.; maize = 349 cal.; wheat and
millet - 332 cal.; barley 340 cal.; potato = 82 cal.
Source: FAO Food Consumption Tables for use in East Asia: Rome 1972



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
FOOD GRAIN REQUIREMENTS
FOR AVERAGE FAMILY
Average Family Size: 6
Adult Consumption Units (ACU)/Family: 4.5 1/
(average of .75 = per person)
Average Subsistence : 2,500 calories/ACU
2,500 x 4.5 = 11,250 calories per family per day
11,250 x 365 = 4,106,250 calories per family per year
85% of calories from cereals
15% of calories from pulses, vegetables (potatoes) and animal products
4,106,250 x .85 = 3,490,300 calories per family per year from cereals
35% from paddy - 1,221,600 - 575 kg.
35% from maize - 1,221,600 - 389 kg.
10% from wheat - 349,030 - 124 kg.
20% from millet - 698,060 - 234 kg.
Cereal grain required per family per year - 1,322 kg.
(or .8 kg per day /per ACU)
Milling/Conversion ratios - rice - 0.6
maize, wheat - 0.9
millet - 0.85
potatoes - 0.95
Calorie value per kilo - Rice - 3,540
Maize - 3,490
Wheat, millet - 3,320
Potato - 820
Source: FAO - Food Consumption Tables for Use in East Asia
/1   A.K. Bourini - Population Profile (rounded)



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page  1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Adaptive Research
1.        Agro-ecological conditions are extremely variable in the hills of
Nepal. Temperatures, rainfall, wind, light duration, and light intensity
as well as soils and slope can vary substantially in very short distances.
With the almost limitless combinations of variables in hill agriculture it
would be impossible for the present research organization to develop
adequate technology for sustained high yields.
2.        In some parts of the world the efforts of the formal research
organizations have been effectively supplemented with a program of adaptive
research. Adaptive research consists of basically unreplicated tests of
research results. These tests are conducted in farmers' fields and are
used primarily to test the validity of research results under differing
agro-ecological conditions, and farmers capabilities.
3.        At full implementation, each District would be served by team of
2 to 3 Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) that are specifically trained and
equipped to implement this type of work through out the areas served by the
ASC. The JT and JTA would be responsible for frequent note-taking and
inspection of the tests after the SMS had helped to establish them in the
field. The SMS would be responsible for identifying problems and reporting
results.
4.        A Nepalese Senior Agronomist would be responsible for training,
coordination, and supervision of the SMS, JT and JTA who conduct the adaptive
research program in the project area.
5.        A highly experienced expatriate agronomist would consult and advise
in all aspects of extension agronomy and adaptive research programs. His
services would be essential for the first two to three years of this project
when training and implementation will require extra effort and dedication.
6.        If three to four tests are conducted near each ASC each crop season
there would be 45 to 60 tests conducted in each district each year. Obviously,
this will be a major effort and will require careful training, planning and
coordination.
Terms of Reference
7.        Senior Agronomist.  This position will require a well trained and
highly motivated individual. He must have extensive knowledge of the principle
crops and cropping systems that are commonly grown in the hills of Nepal.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
He must have the ability to inspire and motivate the people he is super-
vising. Strong legs are essential.
8.        Expatriate Agronomist.  Basically, this man will have some previous
experience in crop production in monsoon Asia. Hopefully, he will also have
some experience in irrigated agriculture. Ideally, he will have previously
worked with agriculture in the hills of Nepal, India, Thailand, or the
Philippines. He must be willing to work in close harmony with the Senior
Agronomist in developing and administering a practical training program for
the SMS. With the Senior Agronomist, he must be a liaison man between the
SMS and the research scientists. This man should be blessed with infinite
wisdom and patience and be able to walk hill trails for extended periods of
time.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page  1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Agricultural Credit, Input Supply, Marketing and Cooperatives
A. Agricultural Credit
1.        Both institutional and non-institutional sources of credit are
important in the project area. The significance of each varies according to
the purpose for which it is extended and according to farm size. Institutional
credit is provided primarily for production purposes and non-institutional
credit is provided primarily for consumption purposes.
2.        ADBN is the major source of institutional credit.  About 60% of ADBN
financing is done through the Sajha (cooperative) movement. Most of these
loans are for short-term production credit (crop loans) to farmer members and
are secured by the crop.  ADBN also loans (about 36% of its financing for agri-
culture) directly to farmers at slightly higher rates.  It then requires a real
estate mortgage which poses difficulties for individual farmers where land
titles are not up-to-date.  Non-institutional credit is provided through
moneylenders (landlords, merchants, traders) at much higher rates. It may
also be provided "in kind" by relatives and friends.
3.        In the project area, 75%  of the farmers own less than  0.4 ha.
These farmers have problems in obtaining credit due to difficulties in estab-
lishing credit worthiness. Of those who are able to obtain credit, they obtain
it from the following sources: moneylenders, about 53%; ADBN, through Sajha,
about 18%; ADBN directly, about 4%. There is an obvious need to improve small
farmer access to institutional credit.
4.       In the project area, ADBN presently has district offices at Tanahu
and Syanja and sub-branches at Gorkha and Lamjung. Present staffing of these
offices is adequate, except for loan assistants who are needed to accent appli-
cations and supervise the use of credit. There is no formal training program
for staff at present.
5.       To improve farmer access to institutional credit, HMG has agreed to
review annually with the Association, the credit needs of farmers in the project
area and to provide adequate funds to ADBN for the purpose of making loans to
satisfy the needs agreed upon (para 4.16). To provide adequate staffing for
ADBN offices, under the project, one loan assistant would be posted for each
ASC. A formal training program would be established for staff.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page  2
B. Agricultural Inputs
6.       The Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC) is the government agency
responsible for the provision of improved agricultural inputs to farmers
in Nepal. It is presently experiencing serious financial difficulties due
to fixed prices for its sales in the face of increasing costs for the
imported inputs it sells. Private traders also supply agricultural inputs.
Fertilizer
7.       AIC is the predominant source of fetilizer supply.  Chemical fer-
tilizer usage has remained low and confined to certain areas. There are
several reasons for this:
(a) Nepal generally lacks sufficient fertilizer supplies.
Since the Terai produces greater yields at lower cost, it
receives more of the scarce supplies than do the hill areas.
(b) The present system of planning for national fertilizer
usage targets is not coordinated with national five-year
plans or district annual plans for agricultural development.
(c) In recent years, grant sources have provided a major source
of fertilizers or funds for purchase of fertilizer. Unfortu-
nately, AIC rarely receives advance commitments and therefore
cannot make timely purchases.
(d) AIC also has problems of internal transport and lack of
storage facilities. At district level, all fertilizer
supplies must be in place and under cover by June because
shipment is difficult during the monsoon.
(e) To further complicate the situation, extension agents and
farmers frequently lack knowledge about what type of fer-
tilizer should be used and when it should be applied.
Hence, they use whatever is available regardless of its
appropriateness. They also lack access to fertilizer
supplies at peak times.
A plan of annual targets, coordinated with a separate stocking plan, would
be drawn up for the project area.
8.         To improve services to farmers, the following would be done:
(a) At the national level, AIC would draw up an overall plan by
November 1 of each year. This plan would take into account
the broad strategy of five-year and annual agricultural
development plans and be based on district information pro-
vided monthly as to on-going and probable demand, present



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page  3
(b) ADBN and Sajha would coordinate and strengthen their activ-
ities to enable farmers to obtain the necessary credit for
fertilizer purchase.
(c) At district headquarters, District Coordinatine Committee
would review flow of credit, sale of fertilizer stocks,
take corrective steps as necessary and report to AIC at
national level.
(d) Each month the District AIC would send a representative to
each ASC/Sajha to determine sales trends to ensure adequate
supplies.
(e) The extension service would be strengthened. (See para.
4.06 for details.).
Seed
9.        At present, AIC handles seed for about 1% of the total cultivated
area of the country. AIC's sources of seed are government farms and AIC
contract farmers. The distribution of improved seed has been uneven and
declining over the last few years in the project area. Farmers lack confidence
in the quality of AIC seed, AIC has problems with making timely delivery, and
its prices are regarded as too high. USAID is assisting AIC with a Seed
Production and Input Storage Project which is expected to be active in the
project area.  Since the area under wheat is likely to remain the same until a
better variety is found, demand has been estimated at 10% increase each year
over the 1980/81 target of 183 mt (Annex 3, Table 2). Since areas under HYV
of paddy are expected to remain constant during the project period, demand has
been estimated at a 10% increase. The national potato program expects to
expand seed production in nearby Kaski District. AIC would carry out its
program at the levels indicated.
Plant Protection
10.       Plant protection is a neglected sector in Nepal and does not even
have a full fledged division in AIC. Extremely small amounts of pesticides
are used in the project area at present, mainly by farmers growing HYV. Dusts
are chiefly used as they are relatively easy to transport and apply. Demand
forecast is difficult because it depends on intensity of attack, rainfall,
speed with which the epidemic spreads, etc. Stocking frequently results in
losses as pesticides have a limited shelf life. Few farmers have even a
rudimentary knowledge of disease and pest control.
11.       Annex 3, Table 3 gives the value of plant protection materials
required during the project period. These are based on improvements in the
extension service which are expected to lead to an increase in demand.
Under the project, each ASC would stock enough pesticides to treat 200 ha
of wheat, 500 ha of paddy, 25% of seed used by farmers, and 25% of stored
foodgrains.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
C. Storage and Marketing
Storage
12.       A good network of godowns exists in the project area.  Sajha
godowns were constructed under the Gandaki project (for locations, see Map
IBRD 15049). While the network exists' present godowns are poorly equipped
and maintained. Godown managers lack proper management training. There is
inadequate utilization of godowns and their profit-generating aspects are
being mishandled.
13.       Under the project, each ASC would have a fully equipped 20 ton
warehouse which would be used as a retail point for fertilizer and a temporary
storage point for foodgrains. Some of these warehouses are being constructed
under the Gandaki project. Project construction would be integrated with that
done under the Gandaki project (see Annex 9, Table 4). Management training to
overcome present management difficulties would be provided bi-annually. The
course would last about ten days and would include the following:
(a) storage, maintenance and fumigating of foodgrains;
(b) sorting, storage, timely aeration, desprouting of potatoes;
(c) storing, stacking, preserving of fertilizers, weighing;
(d) maintenance of storage floor, storage articles, building
and beam scales;
(e) maintenance of accounts, physical balances of different
commodities, issue registers, etc.
One day would be devoted to proper on-farm storage of foodgrains which
would be transmitted to the farmer as an extension message. This training
would include:
(a) lecture and demonstration covering losses caused by insect,
rodents, birds, and moisture;
(b) practical demonstration on use of anticoagulant rodenticides
and fumigation;
(c) lecture on nature of, damage and control measures to be
employed;
(d) demonstration on improvement of existing storage structure
and use of metallic bins;
(e) properties of various pest control chemicals, advantages
and disadvantages, precautions and antidotes; and
(f) special precautions regarding seed storage.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Marketing
14.       The problems of marketing foodgrains in the project area are:
(a) immediate depression of prices at harvest;
(b) lack of financial capacity of small farmers to withhold
foodgrains from the market;
(c) downward flow of foodgrains from hill districts to Terai
immediately after harvest, followed by an upward flow
three to four months later.
The principal government agency dealing with foodgrain distribution to food
deficit areas is Nepal Food Corporation (NFC). NFC has a national network
of dealers consisting of sajhas and private traders. At present, the Sajha
program is being emphasized as the primary marketing instrument; unfortunately,
this objective is beyond the resources of most Sajha. In the project area,
Tanahu and Syanja transport goods to market over an all weather highway.
Gorkha and Lamjung are presently limited to transport by porter. At the end
of the project period, it is expected that there would be an incremental pro-
duction of 23,200 t of foodgrains, 9,200 t of potatoes, 2,000 t of pulses and
oilseeds.
16.       Under the project, a marketing plan would be introduced in the
second project year. On an experimental scale, during project years two
and three, 5% and 10%, respectively, of total incremental production would
be purchased at the government support price by either Sajha or NFC. This
should help to stabilize prices. This purchase would be stored in the project
area and sold locally to meet needs of the project area later in the year.
The selling price would be fixed after including procurement price and costs
and overheads. Preliminary procurement would be done at district headquarters
and ASC. ASC would be used as relay points for allocating foodgrains to
scarcity points within the district. Credit requirements for this market
support program would be handled through ADBN from funds generated by the
sale of fertilizers.
D. Cooperatives
17.       The cooperative movement was given a new dimension with the intro-
duction of the Sajha program in 1976, which sought to link economic development
with political decentralization at the grass roots level and to mobilize local
savings. In 1978, management responsibility for Sajha was transferred from
ADBN to a district level Sajha board.
18.        In 1980, 22 of the 26 Sajhas in the project area were delinquent--
overdues of members to the Sajha (and consequently of the Sajha to ADBN) were
more than 50%. Since delinquencies reduced the ADBN finances available, the



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
amount of lending to the Sajha for 1979/80 is NRs 1.4 M rather than the
targeted NRs 2.15 M. The problems causing the delinquency are complex and
and interrelated. The staff of the Registrar Cooperative Societies have not
yet initiated legal action; in anticipation that Sajha staff would pursue
members to return overdues; or to taken action against the Executive Commit-
tees who processed and sanctioned loans to defaulters, or sought recovery from
guarantors. Another reason is that there in the past, has been insufficient
training to cooperative official members. The Registrar's office in the past,
has been incapable of giving advise on financial management, i.e., how best
to utilize small financial resources a Sahja may have. Finally, it has not
always been possible to ascertain the amount of overdues on the books when
Sahja were transferred from ADBN.
19.       Lack of confidence in the credit worthiness of Sajha societies has
led ADBN to withdraw its funds from some societies and to release funds only
on sufficient guarantees that past arrears would be recovered.
20.       It is proposed that under improved management and better recovery
of overdues, the number of delinquent societies in the project area can be
reduced and that these will remain solvent during the project period. To
assist Sajhas in providing inputs to members, working capital would be avail-
able as credit from ADBN on standard terms. Applications shall be initiated
by Sajhas passed to the District and Regional Coordinating Committee for
endorsement before presentation to ADBN.
21.       A two-tier training program is proposed for Sajha members and
staff. The member's program is a regular program run by the registrar. At
the national level, it has a target of covering 55 members per district in
45 districts annually. The program is a three-day course which covers
topics like cooperative principles, accounting systems, cooperative rules,
marketing of foodgrains and inputs. A staff member of the cooperative
training college in Kathmandu goes to district headquarters and using district
officers as resource personnel organizes camps which are often located in
important villages.
22.        Staff training courses would include:
(a) basic accounting principles;
(b) loan procedures; and
(c) general agricultural principles, storage and marketing.
These would be organized in consultation with ADBN and Registrar of Coopera-
tives either at the Khairenitar Training Institute or at district headquarters.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Fertilizer Requirement*
Year         Project Year            Total Needed        Incremental Over
Base Year
t                     t
78/79                                  820 Actual Used
79/80                                  860 Estimated
80/81                                  910 Base Year
81/82               1                1,310                      400
82/83               2                1,900                      990
83/84               3                2,500                    1,590
84/85               4                3,200                    2,290
85/86               5                4,000                    3, nQ;
8,360
* Tons of fertilizer materials with analysis of 45% plant nutrients
composed of 85% N and 15% P205



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Seed Requirements /a
(tons)
Year           1         2        3         4         5
Crop
Paddy                        4.4      4.8       5.2       5.7       6.3
Maize                       16.5     18.1      19.9      21.8      23.9
Wheat                       20.1     22.1      24.3      26.7      29.3
Potato                      36.0     62.0    125.0    185.0    248.0
/a  Projected demand for seed of HYV or other improved varieties
handled at ASC
Table 3
Pesticide Requirements
(NR'000)
Year           1        2         3         4        5
Pesticides all crop /a        .36       .56      .75       .95     1.14
/a   See Annex 3, para. 11 for details



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation
1.        Hill areas of Nepal require irrigation to offset the uncertainties
of the monsoons and to extend the growing season. Despite abundant water
resources, only 20% to 25% of hill area crop land is irrigated. Nearly all
of this area is under supplementary irrigation during the rainy season. The
small streams and the torrents which supply most of the irrigation water
during the rainy season are dry after the rains cease. As diversion of
water from the larger perennial streams and rivers is generally beyond the
technical resources of the local people, only a small percentage of the
irrigated area is perennially irrigated.
2.        Nationally, in the current Five Year Plan, only 7,540 ha of hill
irrigation is to be developed--slightly over 5% of the total area to be
developed under the plan. This is a realistic expression of the higher costs
and manpower requirements for developing irrigation in the hills over those
required for the Terai. However, the general decline in productivity in the
hills and the related problems have caused a shift in official policy. The
objectives of the Sixth Plan are to bring 25% of the cultivated area in the
hills under irrigation.
3.        The "high farmer participation" concept has been accepted for the
5 to 10 ha schemes as being the most realistic. These could be completed in
one working season. Concerned farmers would provide labor and local materials
and HMG would provide technical inputs and external construction materials.
Existing Institutions
4.        DIHM is primarily responsible for implementation, operation and
management of medium to large scale irrigation schemes. Until a short time
ago, all DIHM resources were devoted to developing irrigation in the Terai,
but recently it has channeled part of its efforts to irrigation schemes in
the hills. Since DIHM has stated that systems with 50 ha command areas
would be the minimum they would consider, a large percentage of the hill
irrigation schemes are excluded from receiving assistance from DIHM. Until
recently these small systems were largely ignored by all branches of
government, but of late MOHP and MOWT have shown increasing interest and
involvement in the rehabilitation of small scale irrigation works.
5.        At district level, the ministries operate through a district
technical office (DTO), staffed by an engineer, two overseers and some
support staff. Although small scale irrigation is designated as one of
their responsibilities, their limited manpower and resources are also
utilized by village water supply, trail, bridges and building works.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        MFA retains responsibility for farm level irrigation development
and management. These activities are covered by Farm Irrigation and Water
Utilization (FIWU) which has shown keen interest in expanding its operations
in the hill areas. MFA also has specifically expressed its desire to keep
the irrigation development components of this project within the administrative
sphere of MFA.
Irrigation in Project Area
7.        It is estimated that about 40% or 22,500 ha of the cultivated land
in the project area is under some form of irrigation, predominantly supple-
mentary irrigation. Only a few irrigation systems provide year around water
so that two and three crops a year can be produced.
Water Needs and Resources
8.        During the May to September monsoon season there is adequate rain-
fall in the project area for most crop production. Paddy usually requires
some supplementary water for puddling and transplanting. Additional water may
also be needed if there are substantial breaks in the monsoon or to mature the
crop. From October to April, rainfall is too limited or uncertain in most of
the project area to risk crop production without irrigation. This is the
period of the year having the greatest potential for increased crop production.
March and April are the critical months for an adequate supply of irrigation
water as they are at the end of the dry season when river and stream flows are
at their lowest. For March, the mean3discharge of the Narayani River at
Station 450 near Narayangarh is 245 M /sec for a catchment area of 3.11 M ha.
This equals a discharge of 7.7 1/sec/ha for the HMG planned development of
38,000 ha. The gross irrigation requirement for paddy in March is 2.7 1/sec/ha.
9.        Theoretically, there is ample river runoff for the planned irriga-
tion development. In practice it is a much more complex problem. In many
small tributaries and streams, the dry season flow at higher elevations
is sub-surface and without special structures cannot be used where needed.
In general, there is a very uneven distribution of available water resources
during the dry season. River and stream bottoms have an abundance of water
that is not available for use higher on the slopes.
Present Irrigation Facilities
10.       The entire existing irrigation facility in the project area can be
classified as minor gravity systems. With few exceptions, all are built by
indigenous means and maintained by the farm communities. Water is diverted
by simple stone and brush weirs into hand dug canals. Canal flows are
controlled by crude overflow arrangements near the intake. Gully crossing
for the canals consists of dry stone walls with overflow crests. These
indigenous systems are easily damaged by floods and runoff from torrential
rains. A few HMG-sponsored perennial systems exist in the area. They are
equipped with trench type intakes (tyrolian weirs), controlled intakes and
various improved canal structures. At least one small lift system exists
in the area and two more are in the planning stage.



_ 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Work Proposed Under the Project
11.       A feasible target for upgrading and improving the irrigation
facilities would be about 3,000 ha. Little of this would involve new systems
and the only new land involved would be the expansion area that would be
covered by increasing the efficiency of the existing systems. Because the
size of the individual projects would be restricted to less than 50 ha, this
part of the project would require good organization to achieve the goal
in a five-year period. There would be a basic goal of upgrading 2,000 ha
from seasonal to fully perennial systems, 200 ha from rainfed to perennial,
500 ha from existing seasonal to improved seasonal and 300 ha from rainfed
to seasonal irrigation.
12.       Nominations by the village panchayats would serve as a starting
point in identifying systems that would qualify for improvement under the
project. One of the most important bits of information needed to determine
the eligibility of a system for improvement is that of the minimum flow
of the water source and maximum irrigation need to coincide. As few records
of stream flows, other than those of the larger rivers, are available, it
would be advisable for FIWU to set up staging stations on as many project
area streams as soon as possible.
13.       Carefully conducted preliminary surveys for each potential system
are of primary importance. Eight general areas of information should be
gathered:
(a) Scheme location and size of irrigated area;
(b) Names of farmers involved and size of irrigated holdings;
(c) Crops grown at present and crops intended to be grown
after upgrading;
(d) Hydrology-evaluation of the water source. Village leaders
and older people in the area should be valuable sources of
information where gauging data is absent;
(e)  Estimate of engineering works required for the scheme;
(f) Determination of materials, labor and transportation avail-
able for the construction proposed;
(g) Evaluation of village motivation and willingness to cooperate;
(h) Willingness of benefitting farms to sign an agreement that
they will maintain the systems at design level and will
assign one or more people for training in the operation
and management of the system.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Staffing
14.       In view of the manpower limitations in the country and the complex-
ity of this work, it seems essential to have a highly experienced expatriate
engineer to assist in implementing, expediting and coordinating the work. His
services would be needed for at least portions of three years and probably for
the full five years if the proposed goal is to be reached.
15.       A chief engineer, water management specialist, and four junior
engineers would also be needed. One junior engineer would be assigned to each
district and would be responsible for the detailed engineering needed at each
scheme. This would include the surveying, plans, drwwings, material list,
labor needs, etc. The chief engineer would be responsible for coordinating the
overall work, reviewing plans, procurement of supplies, relationships with
villagers and panchayats, etc.
16.       Each junior engineer would have one senior overseer and two sub-
overseers assigned to him for the first year and two overseers and four sub-
overseers the following four years. The sub-overseers would be resident,
full-time on-site supervisors of an individual project. The overseer would
supervise two projects at a time, spend some time working on preliminary
surveys, and where possible, assist junior engineers with the detailed sur-
veying. Volunteer village labor would be expected to be available for routine
rod and chain work and any minor labor needed in the course of the detailed
survey.
17.       After project completion when the trained village people take over
the operation and management, any technical assistance needed would be
provided by FIWU or DTO. If DTO assumes responsibility for minor repairs, at
least one more overseer should be assigned to its staff. A sample irrigation
scheme is provided in Appendix 1. Component cost and implementation schedules
are shown in Annex 9, Table 10.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page  1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sample Irrigation Scheme
1.        We recommend that about 144 small irrigation systems be upgraded.
These systems would have command areas of from 5 ha to 50 ha and they would
be upgraded to provide perennial irrigation for about 2,000 ha, bring about
500 ha under irrigation and upgrade systems for the remaining 500 ha for a
total target of 3,000 ha. The major cost involved in each scheme would be
for a well engineered screen trench intake and flow control gate. Silt traps
and overflow weirs would also be included to protect the whole system. The
amount of work and materials required will vary widely from one scheme to the
next depending on size and location.
2.        Following is an example of the problems on an average scheme of
21 ha:
(1)  The indigenous weir is incapable of diverting water during
the period November to May.
(2) The weir has to be repaired after each major flood (four to
five times annually).
(3)  The initial 200 M of canal are very porous.
(4) The canal frequently overtops and washes out during heavy
storms.
To convert the present indigenous supplementary irrigation scheme into a
smoothly functioning supplementary or perennial system, the following
remodeling works would be implemented:
(1) Headworks would normally consist of trench type screened
weir with movable controls. There would also be provision
for silt removal at the headworks.
(2) The canal immediately below the headwork is frequently
troublesome and would be replaced with concrete masonry
construction or would be piped.
(3) The balance of the canal would be hand dug except where
the canal crosses gullies or drainage ways. These normally
would be crossed by flumes of RCC or corrugated metal.
Stone masonry culverts would serve to cross small gullies.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
The farmers whose fields are served by this system would agree in advance
to maintain and operate the system after it is completed. They would also
agree to supply labor to bring the canal beyond 200 meters of the headworks
up to design standard under the supervision of the engineer add overseer.
3.        As an example, a canal designed to handle about 3 liters/sec/ha
is needed. This is equal to 63 liters/sec to supply the 21 ha under command.
If we assume a 33% loss due to canal seepage for a 3 km canal, then we need
a canal designed for 95 1/sec. If the canal slopes 1 meter in 500 meters,
then we will need a flow depth of 25 cm and the bed width must be 50 cm.
4.         If 144 irrigation systems of an average size of 21 ha can be
upgraded over a five year period, approximately 3,000 ha will have an
assured water supply during the rainy season and at least 2,200 ha of this
area should have perennial irrigation. The improvements planned would be:
2,000 ha present seasonal upgraded to perennial
200 ha present rainfed to perennial
500 ha present indigenous seasonal to improved seasonal
300 ha present rainfed to improved seasonal
3,000 ha.



_ 58 -                             AN>TEY. 4
Appendix 1
NEPAL                               Table I
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Cost Estimates*
Item                      Unit   Quantity  Unit Cost  Partial Cost  Total        F.F.
--------NRS-------------------       (est.)
1.   Intake
RCC                M3        4         2000         8,000                3,000
Plain Concrete      I3       4          800          3,200                 --
Stone Masonry       M3      50          500         25,000                 --
Gabions            MI2      80          300         24,000              12,000
Screens            M2       15         1300        19,500               15,000
Gates              M2        1         7500          7,500               6,000
Excavation:
Normal Soil      M3A      70           15         1,050
Rocky Soil       M3      135           20         2,700
90,950    90,950
2. Canal Lining
Stone Masonry      Ml      150          500         75,000
Excavation          M3     200           15          3,000    78,000
Total                    168,950
Contingencies - 20%                      33,050   10,000
GRAND TOTAL                    202,000   46,000
Cost per hectare: NRs 9,620
FE Component - 23%
Adaated from FAO/CP Nepal Hill Area Agriculture De-reo:'-e.t "r&e.L,
'',<'>:l'--t"X:u '  >..,'J 'e" Cl'   'A ''-i   AlT,X   ;,7   ^ e_ 4   T-)_  v _D e 



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Trails and Bridges
General Background
1.        Much of the project area is served by the Kathmandu-Pokhara-Bhairawa
trunk road which also passes through the district centers of Tanahu and Syanja.
The centers of Lamjung and Gorkha will be linked up to the highway by feeder
roads. The 26 km road to Gorkha should be completed in 1981 and the 42 km
road to Lamjung district center, Besi Sahar, is under construction by HMG.
A completion date for the latter has not been given. Apart from these roads,
only a few jeepable tracks of little importance for the project exist.
2.        A network of trails constitutes the main transport infrastructure in
the project area. Major trails in the four districts are estimated to total
800 km, while minor trails may have a total length of approximately 3,200 km.
3.        Length of Trails Requiring Improvement:
Average distance         Total length of Existing
(km) between            Trails linking Service
Service Center         Centers with Nearest Road
No. of Service      & District Center          and/or District Center
District         Centers         or Nearest Road Head                (km)  a
Major lb   Minor    Total
Gorkha               5                  8 /c                 65         -         65
Lamjung             5                  11 /c                 54        32         87
Syanja              5                  12                    31        30         59
Tanahu               5                 16                    33        47         72
Grand Total        20                  12                   183       109        292
/a   Some trails are common to two or more service centers.
/b   Major trails lead through large river valleys and/or connect to major
centers.
/c   When the road to Besi Sahar is completed.
Transport Requirements
4.           Movement of agricultural inputs and produce, construction
materials and people between the nearest road head and service centers



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page  2
and between district center and service centers would be via an all-weather
trail network as the existing trail network has these major shortcomings:
-    insufficient number of trail bridges to enable all-season
safe crossing of rivers and torrents;
-    lack of maintenance, especially as related to landslides
and gullying;
-    unduly long detours on some trails due to lack of bridges
or rock barriers that cannot be passed by indigenous means;
-    alignments of trails through cultivated areas, especially
paddy, on narrow and otherwise inadequate paths.
5.        Trails are generally constructed and maintained by the DTO, MLD
and/or Village Panchayats.  At present there are two agencies involved in the
construction of trail bridges; the Suspension Bridge Division (SBD) of the
Department of Roads under MOWT; and the MLD. SBD handles the construction of
large trail bridges with costs borne entirely by the central Government.
MLD provides district and village panchayats, with materials and cash to
enable them to undertake the construction of a large number of small span
bridges. Site selection usually reflects national as well as local prior-
ities. Most construction materials for suspended, as well as suspension
bridges (pylons, anchors, suspension bars and walkways) are manufactured
in Kathmandu. Cable is the main imported item.
Project Components
6.        As the Agricultural Service Centers would be established
at points strategical to the areas they are to serve, and trails leading to
to such points already exist. The project, therefore, would concern itself
only with the improvement of existing trails.
7.        Improvement works on about 70 km of trail would comprise:
(a)  rebuilding of sections that have been damaged or destroyed
by landslides, consisting of cut and fill, construction of
stone steps, occasional simple cross drainage, planting for
erosion protection, etc.; and
(b)  realignment of sections that presently lead through in-
tensively cultivated areas, especially paddy fields.
8.        It is estimated that about 30 medium to small trail bridges and
4 maaor ones are required to establish an all-weather network of trails
between service centers and nearest road head as well as between district
centers and service centers. The average length of minor bridges is estimated
at 50 m. All are assumed to be of the most common-suspended type which is
simple in design, consisting largely of components manufactured in the country,
with know-how for its construction locally available. Major bridges are of
the suspension type and would average 80-90 m.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Implementation
9.        Request for trail and bridge improvements are normally initiated
by village panchayats for inclusion in the annual District Development Plan
(DDP). Technical studies, designs and implementation would be carried out by
technical staff of the DTO, with specialist inputs provided by the Suspension
Bridge Division (MOWT) or MLD, as and when necessary. After approval of
designs and in the cases where the trail or bridge between the ASC and the
district headquarters or nearest road-head, the Project Manager shall be
authorized to provide the lessor of 95% of construction costs, or a maximum
of NR 14,500 per km. of trail, NR 2,400/m for minor bridges or NR 5,000/m for
major bridges for projects executed in accordance with regulation published
under the District Panchayat Act.
Implementation Schedule
Year        1    2    3    4    5    Total
Total length of trails
considered (km)                 40   80   80   83    -       283
Total length of trail
sections to be
improved or
realigned (km.)                  -   20   20   20   10        70
Minor trail bridges                   -    6   10    8    6        30
Major trail bridges                   -    1    1    1    1         4
10.         A cost estimate is shown in Annex 9, Table 9.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Basis for Economic Analysis
1.        Farm Labor.  During the peak agricultural months, the opportunity
cost of labor is equal to the market wage rate. At minimum employment levels,
the marginal cost of labor would be the value of additional consumption needed
to undertake field works (estimated at NRs 1.5 per man day). 1/ During the
slack months, the opportunity cost of labor would be the alternative earnings
in other non-agricultural activities such as porterage and construction labor,
or in gathering fuelwood, fodder and household works (estimated at NRs 5.0 per
man day). 2/ On the basis of labor requirements for various crops and the
cropping pattern in the project area, the following weights are assigned to
various levels of opportunity cost of labor:
Market
% of Total Annual        Cost of Labor
Labor Requirement             (NRs)
man-days
Peak months              -        40                     7.0
Slack months                      35                     5.0
Minimum employment                25                     1.5
Weighted average                                   4.9
Economic opportunity cost of labor NRs 4.4 per man day is derived by applying
SCF to the opportunity cost of labor.
2.        Draft Animals.   It is assumed that the opportunity cost of draft
animals would be equal to the rental charges, estimated at NRs 15 per pair
per day.
1/   An adult needs an equivalent of 0.5 kg cereals (comprising 50% maize and
50% rice) per day for his minimum subsistence need of 2,000 calories per
day. The economic prices of rice and maize are NRs 3.96 and NRs 2.19 per
kg, respectively.
2/   Assuming 50% of the labor force would be involved in porterage and con-
struction works during the slack months, earning on average, NRs 7.5 per
man day, and 50% in gathering fuelwood, winter fodder or household work
(estimated at NRs 2.5 per day).



_ 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.          Other Inputs.  Fertilizers have been valued at the projected
world market price. Pesticides and insecticides have been assumed to be
traded. Economic prices of seeds are derived by applying the ratio of economic
and financial prices of seeds to the prevailing financial prices of seeds.
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)
4.          Construction of project buildings is carried out using simple
equipment, local materials and skilled and unskilled labor. For the economic
analysis, the construction conversion factor is estimated as follows:
(a) Traded Component. This component includes capital intensive
works which require imported materials. Since it is traded,
the conversion factor is 1.00. It is estimated that about
10% of the construction costs fall under this category.
(b) Non-traded Component. This component includes works that
require skill labor and locally manufactured materials.
The SCF of 0.9 is used as the conversion factor for these
works. About 35% of construction costs are included in this
category.
(c)  Unskilled Labor.  The analysis of shadow wage rates for
unskilled labor is given in para. 7. The conversion factor
of 0.90 has been applied to about 55% of construction costs
which fall under this category:
Conversion Factor
Traded Items                         1.0 x .10 = .100
Non-traded Items                     0.9 x .35 = .315
Unskilled Labor                      0.9 x .55 = .495
Construction Conversion
Factor (CCF)
(weighted average)                           .910



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Fa-rm Inputs ReqLuirements
(a) Without Project
Seed        Compost       Draft       Human
(kg/ha.)      (t/ ha.)    Animals       Labor
p/d/ha.      m/d/ha.
Paddy                    50             1          40            85
Maize                    45              3          30           70
Miillet                  30             -            -           35
Wheat                   100              2          30           70
Pulses                   40             -           15           20
Potatoes                450             4           40           80
Plant       N-P 0
(b)  With Project                                                          Protection         2 5
NR/ha.     kg./ha.
Paddy                    40             2           40           90         40          30
Maize                    45             4           30           75         30          30
Millet                   30              -           -           35         10          -
Wheat                   100              3          35           75         20          30
Pulses                   40             -          15            20          -          -
Potatoes                900             4          40            85         50         30



- 65 _
ANNEX 6
Table 2
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Summary of Economic & Financial Prices
Agricultural Outputs
Item             Units                  Economic             Financial
Crops:
Paddy           NRs/ton                     2500                 2000
Maize           NRS/ton                     2200                 1600
Wheat           NRs/ton                     2300                 2000
Millet          NRs/ton                     1300                 1000
Pulses          NRs/ton                     3900                 3000
Potatoes        NRs/ton                     1500                 1200
Oilseeds        NRs/ton                     3800                 3500
Agricultural Inputs:
Fertilizer
(Nitroger!
Phosphate)    NRs/kg                       8.00                  5.3
Compost         NRs/ton                    18                    20
Human Labor    NRs/man day                  4.40                  7
Draft
Animals     NRs/pair day                15.0                  17
Seeds (Economic Prices):
Paddy Rice      Maize    Millet    Wheat    Pulses   Potatoes
W/O Proiect:
(NRs/ton)             3130          2750       1630     2880      4880        1880
With Project:         3250          2750       2000      3500      5880       2250



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
r-ronnino Area, vield, ProAuction & lyalue of Ptoeduction
(a) Without Project:
Area of               Yield    Expected    Econ.   Value of
Influence              t/ha.   Production  Prices  Production
(ha'000)                                               (NR'000)
Paddy            12.0                  2.4      28,800      2,500    72,000
Maize            13.8                  2.0      27,600      2,200    60,720
Millet           10.0                  1.2      12.000      1,300    15,600
Wheat             2.3                  1.1       2,530      2,300      5,819
Pulses            2.1                 0.5        1,050      3,900      4,095
Potatoes           .6                 4.4        2,640      1,500      3,960
Total
40.8                                               162,194
(b)  With Project:
Paddy            13.4                 3.0       40,200      2,500   100,500
Maize            12.3                  2.5      30,750      2,200    67,650
Millet           10.3                  1.4      14,420      1,300    18,746
Wheat             2.8                  1.6       4,480      2,300    10,304
Pulses            2.1                 0.5        1,050      3,900      4,095
Potatoes          1.1                 6.0        6,600      1,500      9,900
Total -        42.0                                                211,195
Incremental Production 49,001



ANNEX 6
Table 4
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PROFUCTION PROJECT
Farm Input Costs (NR'000)
(a) Without Project
Seeds              Compost              Draft               Labor               Plant        N - P         Total
Tons      Cost      Tons        Cost    (000)       Cost    (000)      Cost  Protection  Tons   Cost    Cost
Pair Days          Man Days              Cost
Paddy            600       1,878    12,000       216      480       7,200   1,020    4,488         -        -        -      13,782
Maize            621       1,708    40,200       724      402       6,030      938    4,127        -        _               12,589
Millet           300         489        -         -        -          -        350    1,540        -        -        -       2,029
Wheat            230         662      4,600       83       69       1,035      161       708        -       -        -       2,488
Pulses            84         410        -         -        31         472       42       185       -        -        -       1,067
Potatoes         270         508      2,400       43       24         360       48       211       -        -        -1,122
Total                   5,655               1,066               15,097             11,259                                33,077
(b) With Project
Paddy            536       1,474    26,800       482      536       8,040   1,206    5,306        536      402    3,216   19,054
Maize            554       1,799    49,200       886      369       5,535      923    4,059        369     369    2,952   15,600
Millet           309         618       -          -        -          -        361    1,586        103       -        -       2,307
Wheat            280         980      8,400      151       98       1,470      210        924       56       84       672    4,253
Pulses            84         494       -          -        32         472       42       185         -       -        -       1,151
Potatoes         990       2,228      4,400       79       44         660       94       411       55       33       264    3,697
1,598              16,177             12,471   1,119                7,104   46,062
Total                  7,593



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Table 5
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations
(NR '000)
A. All Components
Year     Investments   Staff &   Incremental    Total    Incremental            Net
Overhead   Farm Costs               Value of Prod.
1         14,605        1,804        1,948       18,357        7,350         (11,007)
2         17,749        2,006        3,246       23,001       12,250        (10,751)
3         14,670        2,231        6,492       23,393       24,500          1,107
4          8,470        2,350        9,738       20,558       36,750         16,192
5          7,983        2,889       12,985       23,807       49,001         25,194
6           0           2,889       12,985       15,874       49,001         33,127
20            0          2,889       12,985       15,874       49,001          33,127
Economic Rate of Return = 57.8%
B. Irrigation Component
1           3,575          422        0           3,997         0           (-3,998
2          5,760           625          973       7,358        1,605         (-5,753)
3          5,760          625        2,673        9,058        4,415        (-4,643)
4          5,760           625       4,454       10,839        7,655        (-3,184)
5          5,760          625        6,473       12,858       10,700        (-2,158)
6           0              310       8,091        8,401       13,375         +4,974
20            0             310        8,091       8,401       13,375           4,974
Economic Rate of Raturn = 15.7%



- 69
ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Model Farm Budgeting Assumptions
1.        Compost: An average of 12 tons produced per farm but will vary from
8 to 16 tons per farm depending on farm size.
2.        Wheat and Potatoes:  These crops will be produced mostly on high
potential farms that not only have some dry season irrigation water, but have
slopes with a southern aspect. North facing slopes will have low potential
for crop production from late October to late February when the sun angles are
low. East and West facing slopes also have reduced potential.
3.        High Potential Farms are on land where soils are good, rainfall
adequate for 6 months, slopes are moderate, aspect is southernly, and irriga-
tion is assured on at least 50% of the farm. Cropping intensity of 175 to
200 can be achieved.
4.        Low Potential Farms are on land where soils are light and sandy,
rainfall is adequate for only four to five months, slopes are steep, aspect
northernly and there is no irrigation water.
5.        Off Farm Income:  Figures from the &andaki Fertilizer Use Study were
averaged to arrive at NRs 1,560 per annum for small farms. Almost all of this
was from manual outside labor. The outside income for large farms was sub-
stantially higher at NRs 4,250. Part of this income was derived from small
shops as well as outside labor, and various trading ventures.
6.        Income from Livestock Products:  These figures were derived by
averaging figures given in the FAO Report 12/80, so we have the following:
Farm Size                  Low Potential               High Potential
0.2 ha                          625                          725
0.8 ha                        1,200                        1,300






-70 -
NEPAL                                                                                                                                                    TabIe  I
ROLL _1000 IRODOTIOON _PROJECT
WITHOCT PTOddETd  PRESENT7                                                                                    000T010 PROJECT - (1986)                                                                                      Wnj "C    J96
A 0,2Caaoam(a    nrra                                                                                      A 0.2   --ar  Far-  (Ion p/P-rIal)                                                                           A00.2 Hlsarar  Pare   lo o-     na
~~~PC0  ~~~~~PA00Y   MA01ZE   001100  WrEAT   PiLoil   P01TAT/0S   TOTAL                                                                                   WHEATPI?    JI1  OLT    06    PULSES   POTAOES   TOTAL  ITtEMP~N                         000        ILP WCT P10                   0009        07.
Area Ec/s,pa1 (H 5          900    1100         40e/      -          00                                     Ara. Cr-psd (H)             960      1000       840                 ISO                                     Areair C-pea (02)          00       1000        0oa                 100
Yield (k,a)                  0)0      200       001       --Yield  (boa)                                                                 230      220       1/11                  9                                     Yield lkgaj                  31 0      75       lEa 
Parr Ean k0A                 -5       2.2       1.3       -        3.9                                      Price pea kg                3.0       2.6       1.6                 4. 7PrEcaP. ka,L.                                                    3.0      2.0        i.0                 4.7
A.  iren  Ooptaa              05 9    490       131                  35)                12011               A.  arsehpm-                690       97?       162                  4.                  t4rt              A.  trene, EnOot             954       015       189                  42                   99
too able Cents                                        9apR06 loinsta                                                                                             ler~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%iaoie  Cocos
iaed                     is       14         4       -           4                                          Ied33                             0           '                                                            Send                     1.e       04                              4
Ch-i-I  ~  ~       ~       ~      -I                          -Ch-posi                                                              0         11-o-os                                                                                 6         30f
T-9.o                     0       20         5      --           5       --                                 T-Ac0                             200        -'                                      -50                   Pec49                              539        5                                      -113
B.  iro.. ;arGie                                                                        0150                B.  Stoma Heroin                                                                        0416               A.  Oroc  M-PgOo                                                                          10
C.ohanoL                                                                                               OeladCoasL                                                                                                 0e1erI,ed Coa
tired Later - P10mb0 -  7 doss   no .      S1/day. ...............100                                       lr-A  L-as   - PRoeReg - / dAyn  ,I    /~...                                 3./0.19.ev-105                biped bOor -   pla-toa - 0 days~   NR1 15/ddy .   ..     ..
C.  Or. irop  Irrema.0004       C.  boo Orep enoOlee.1911                                                                                  o.  Net Crop lnoos,e.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,
.0.  ioti soost...oa       ...o    ...    ...  e...ra...n                        ...1029                    C.  oPt-            .                 ...........                                 ..1311totoNoroao.+32-W, . laieraita. ......P1,   ......              
A.  Yet     lk em e/T,............................1i62i                                                  D.  ;eA -toso-arena..        ....        ...                                  ...        .  42              D.  N.,C Li-rs       I Ios...     .... .260   ......              
E.  stLvFoT.....        ...Lo...bat...n,a...oo...a-                            ..161F-1 ..a..o4...5 oep.rLeo                         .oaa.AT.... ..........                         06E                                   I etc Id-a. . .              . . .pP.a.m..tb.r.o.o.a... .a.   .v. . .o.-. 
te WFln TOncar   PAOP           O0IRe, INot Part  WITHOU    PatjJEC31>1br   aIr,Nt  aoE Tae   PaTi  1966;                                                                                                                                                    h29
oA 0.2 Or1.. tar   -ot  1h/iE  p-renrl)                                                                     A 0.' 0r-1- rFPa   (high Fot-or511                                                                        A 0...'le  era0/A  (bhti       ooegch
rA-  Croppad (0')           9,30     0190      804       020       itO         100                          area CoosPod (M')            960      OtOt      80(        301      100        300                        Are  Creppad (ME)            1leO~    tl09      840       909        100         ott
Tiled  (ito)                230        2209     000       79         9          79                          Yitr a(kg.)                  210       P20      101         tO        9        ii.,                       Yold  iOg)                             2 75     210        '5 11       9        22
Pola-oEsek                  2.9       2.2      1.3       1./3      3.9         0.3                          PriroP- kg.                  30       2.6       .t       01.t      4.0        1.0                       Po/asPareg.                    /.0      2.9      1t        Z.4      4e-7         1.0
A.  eSeeopeL o  ItE         509       46.   ~ 31         000        t         119       0054                A.  Groan daptat             692       572      10'        049       42   ~ 30           0990            A.  press tarroc              a54       715       109      / 03       42        3(e       3690
tet/neit Coata                                                                   tOP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIdblS CLoteOrAi  costa_
qead                     ES        14        4       23                    12-pd                                                     19        a4         4        20                  12                            bred                       12       10         4       33          4         an
resoiltoor  /        --       --        ~ ~ ~~~             ~~~~~~~~5 F- -                     Prte -ae                  7         -        -         5        --         -                             trrlls-                   IS        'I                1o                     12
tempes-                                                                     3                                i-c-post                      .    t .                 9                   3                                                                 7eae      14o
T-1               3~~~7    20          9       e9         5          15     -130                      Tera                     27        20         5        '         5        15        -00O                 1e-t1e                              5        93        4          9          71       21
illo  Ie-d C. atcm uvorbad.  Case                                                                                                                                                                                     boah-o  Coat.
9/rd Labot - PleeiiG -  02 d.oes        R15,~     .....                   . tO.S.ap.1tt                      farad Lale- - Pl-iheg     13 1laps 9(0 MI5/d0. ...........                         -199                 O/r-d Labr-py-nseteog - 13 J,ypa    NR le/doy.............    -i93
C,  Not ipep T,---           ...oao.  ......                 .....                     1369                  C.  NanGPI ..---                 .            .ep   .tam. ...... ......                1639             C.  Oat~ d"P./     ..p               ....           .erma. ........                        279
A.  Ntao ,    Il        . .      .ece.re..ot.. e..noe.ne..    ..+E25                                         t .  Nac LO--kf-adt..oo.i/                          ..        ...      .at.m..+2'                       A.  9/ac L-      -Iom..oop..b   ..      .atnt. .......                 /
0.E         -I-I............ ........... .00.are.000/e.__                                                    C.  tot Fare       -                    ........                     .no.me.33t                         L.  NOat    -- Iam lame........................... 30
PFn-ip JAr, Labor J-aoaa   -TO8 mtdoye   OEN  4.4 .0.....-55                                                 F-sipy tare labor leccee                        P,4.        ..   . . .od  .e 02.02e5                    Faeiiy Fer  Laber I            6or-04 ead/    NR 90 I/day.-11...2 ... 
P.  laoaee.diee-..es                --c...eee..t    ...   Teer11                                             p.  M-cea--otoLd 1Iooes-ae  Orroas              ...             ...           .... .   3155             h.loae Ota--.a..l..o.rotee.ot.e..a..e...                                              . 2/1
G. fcF,_or,_.                ..........                 1560                                                 G. OCf Fore Ioee..0.......- --- .                      560                                              0. 900 tar e- on.........otto  ......                                     ...         _
R.  foto1 Paaia  Ianom  (0+I1).....................                                     35c5                 0.  Total PFAily Onae-   (Or. i,) .... .....                . ...           ...               90.  TProd  M-ilpIat   (EmI G)  .........                              .'...300 ... 






NLi! AL                                                                                                                                                            Table  2
HILI FOODPIODODUCT DN 01(1001
WIT:.DLU  P10LOCT   PDOONDT                                                                                         .-  0D1U  OLDJDOD  (DDO6I                                                                                             WITI PROJECT 0 AD6)
A 0.0 H--ar  Fire  (Ion   --1e el                                                                                A 0.0 DH-te    be-  (I.,, Do-C,,l)                                                                                   A 0.4  H,ercore  F0c   (Le-  Dp,t-m,,j
I ji              P~ADDY   501,AZ     M 1T T0,    ~iPEDAD    PULSES   POTOACOE    'OTAL                     tPADDY   MADZD   01   O'L DOhAD    FOLDED    DOTATDOE    TOTAL                                                    DIED~                     DADDY   PIADDW       A LE,   WaATSA       POLlED    POT~AYDED    ToTi
Orro Droopad  Ol0~~~~O   3(00  ~4210   3007 20                           -Are  Cr-P80   (M'l                                          67D      42iD      2222      --           2OD                                          cA-  OroOppd (0)4240                  3600       3300         -        700-
ai,ld  toe,)                   DDO       DOD       304                   34I     y- De0   (toNi                                                  DOD      SAD       ADO                   30                                           o,i  Ae                     0202        ODD         62o       --  
',,i-' Per kg.                 '.o         0.02   D.3       -           3 .                                     Price  p-r k,.                  0.0       0.0       DO1.                 4 .0                                        PrO    PoD  no.                3.0       0.0        0.0         --       .07
A  ... C one co ,e 2c2DOD            1030       ODD                  12         --          7Al               A.  Op--                       26pn. DO  olD9       "DO      1-Dr                              3616                  A.  I re-  Onpere             DADS      2340        7OO        --       i,9                     70o
-Dor                        40       10        I                     A~                                          S- d                        tO        56         6'                 10          ---de                                                           30        56         15        -DN-
I ercO-na                  2l1       -         -                             -                                  PF-ili-a                     A-                           -          -                                               Ferlni-e                   72        008         -         -
(rurl-                                                   C --- tc                                                                                                                 -- L                                             Ch-i-nca                   22        'n         --4 
ie,pnn                     2        04         4                    4. L.--Co-oc-n                                                                     10        2                    c                                               ninr.4                              D                     -A-
ToriD              034~~~~~ot  D.       2C                   DO-2b  cODS                                  lOl                         000       Ot        .D                   20                    ODD8                      ToaLDI                              2D2         20                  44.1        --          4-
6 .  G",- K-i.                                                        4539~~~~ANO        0.  DGn0.                                                                                      538i8..      tenNr-4.060.....0          .....                                                               .....
Aire-d la.bac- Piocieg - 40, dav'. ' NO  I /day. ....DI' ....                               c                    ODD-d LoSer - PlnenDa -  AD Wip            NR IoOdoyt           .            .....       -DID                       Oir-d beSet-   P-L,en   -   0 dove  0 ND D5/On'                ....                ....    -OD
0.  l.-lC-r      --..r'i.              .....                      .....                   .cot3939              C.- 1         ?T O..                                   .nen.rtco  .IOn.              ...       47.P ..ri.D),e-..cet...e                                           ...           .....  . .S..OLD..     ..
0.  Tona   F-,i.ey Do-m (Ee1 + G0.........                                                    018 H01.  OT-0 PerilDy O-.-Dc   (E ,. G). ...................D. 30Ii,   I T-1 Coly  (en E                                                                                   + I...D.            .. .1...3300..                   ...
Pd  It I                                                                                          ~ R JU          6,WT
Oa-      ar,     roe   Peilloirr 1-. i .c   Wat   nt                                                                                  dr  miD          oo       oDr                                                                      e    or       ee-        aeo        ao
Ii  1         TODDY   10121    0.1~~~~~~~-0  116E0T CPLSDED   POe  310~A       15001 Tlii                                        OOT)D    la  DZO   POoLLED   SO A)           II  S1.0   PDTTDo    2-L ~1O...~             C                        AO        .01 t  . T DTT                 'D          DAOD         P
3170  421C                                                 ~           ~          ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~A-eL.oc67O 00  42DO  1 20  bSOO  120        000                                       2,,       114'1                3  3100 Oil0o0                  'o         01000
Oe-ld  (Il')                    PDR      000       306        3110       30         DAD-1Di  (teel                                               DOO      00'         3A      031           35       300                             DeNd (toni                     1272        003       412        100        so         60)
Pc  . c   to.               2.5       2.2      1.3        2.3       3.5          1.3                         TaInt per kg.                   3.'        1r.0                2 .0       0.0        1.0                            PrIce   O- ltD.                  3.0       2.6       1.0        0.0       o.1          1.
A.  Ofcc  Gn, inn              20T1    1036       5u2         000       D26          202      10017              A.  CAma'. DPtt               2(,41     2100         il8      D,D2       100         t21 '      7 10                A.  Croo   nipr.m010                     2444       l4D         0644      DrO,       DODD         D3
"I' iOll"    beta.                                                                                                VatOnOc-                                                                                                             aiDlCo
"d                 W~~~I'    56        16         04       DO           TO                               D"a                        4n        I          21        I0        '4          0'                                 Seed                         05        r4        'D         10        14          203
onc       D         --       --          20       --            -F-ennee-                                                  00                   -          D          -         - 40r                                                           60e  S    00         -( .-                            21
G',i-olcl                             --       --         --        --                                            Ch-- Aeicl                  n        0                    10         --         2                                  lI.-i-l                      24        40       -16                   .s 
Itoepro'  20   20   4        DO         4           0                                Compoci                     iA.w8.....K...2A......~~~~~~~~~~~~...A>                                                Ooe'enC..?3'                          20          1        10          4           4
oL                    hI    0~ 0           '3        ODO        2(          5(1       404.                    OTal                      153      13           24      D'          00         160        073                      I-o                        l53       02-3       2142                  34         200         -8(
licono  ror0on                                                   o353                A.  0000e i1'.tli.ii                                                                           e3DA                A.  Omen  O..cgee                                                                                 5/CO~~~~~~~~~. C- M-gi  872
0D~~~~~~~~~~im..0ConI.                                                                OoNr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. Ad Cct                                                                        _.._h-__C__
lilld  .b, -Pj.j,g  I/d     .      ..  ..  ..      .     .  -78                       Hid   ,b-             ~          8d-,I O   1/d~                 ..  ..     .        .    -70                       1-d L -   -Pl_,,               3  _-       NR  5/_   ..vn.rl.en..o..loan                     -
C S ,r1C:0La--Sn      ..e           ..     ...'o...nD..n                ..  .2 a.nl. Oby.110-    -   IlllOo-Pl.o. .eg-   . ..I.Dd .. .031.y..............                                                      5TO1               C     rd.bn.NLnDD.C3-ar/tDOdJ..-
Fanlp Face Labor, In--   - 100 noiay       4.4                         .......3-20                                 Fatily Dole LaSer  1or 2c           DO. nn-o~   i.32......                                 58                     Fani1Y W.-P  Labor1             .....                   .0.120J1       e4.4  ....            -32
0.  T-ec  Faniy Der--   (E  IC) .....................                                   .    003                   11.  iTel.  Fa-ily Deet(E0              4                                                ..lOPI                  II.'   Tona  Fainly Iec...     (. (EI  ) ..........               .[D.ODD...                 ..






- 72 -
ANNEX 7
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million)
Disbursements                    Semester                    Cumulative
(IDA FY)
1982     1st                       0.1                            -
2nd                      0.2                           0.3
1983     1st                       0.3                          0.6
2nd                      0.8                           1.4
1984     1st                       1.0                          2.4
2nd                      1.0                           3.4
1985     1st                       1.0                          4.4
2nd                       1.0                          5.4
1986     1st                       0.8                          6.2
2nd                      0.8                           7.0
1987     1st                       0.6                           7.6
2nd                      0.4                           8.0
/a   Estimated effectiveness date:  April 1, 1981
/b   Estimated closing date:  January 15, 1988






-73 -
ANNEX 8
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity Year                                        |     1            2            43          54      |     5
IDA Financial Year                                        82           83           84           85           86
1981        1982         1983         1984         1985         1986
Calendar Year
Agricultural Extension
3
Appoint PC and 2 PO             Number               -
Select/Appoint DADO               "
Select/Appoint SMS                                               3                        4
Select/Appoint JT                 "                             2
Select/Appoint JTA                '                _            _
Select/Appoint AA                 "                            2            10
Animal Health
4
Select/Appoint JT                                  4            8            8            4
Select/Appoint JTA                               -12            -            -            -
Select/Appoint AA                                 1            1            2            3
ASC
Site Selection/
Preparation                                                 6            6            8
Construction                      "                         _
Applied Research                  Trials
ADBN
Appoint Staff                   Number             6            6            8
Loans
Training Courses                Participants             16      28           38          16           12
AIC
Purchase Fertilizer                             1310tons    1900 tons
Purchase Fertilizer                     ~~~       ~~12  5                    13            5
Training Courses                                       1          5
Saj has
20        30           30              10           20
Training Courses
Marketing
Support by NFC/
Sajhas
Transportation
Tra   )rtation                                 20 km        20 km         20 km       10 km
Construct Trails                                            7                          9
Construct Bridges              Number
Irrigation
Appoint Staff                                               16            32          32            32         32
Construct Schemes              Number                       1
Technical Assistance
Consultants Agronomy           Man/months                18         16         10
Consultants Engineer                                                            3          3
Consultants Communi-                                 5                       6
cations                                                2        2          2 2
Consultants M & E                   "2                               2
Purchase Vehicles
4-wheel drive                  Number             14   8        1
Motorcycles
Bus



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Table 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
NR 000
Year           1          2           3         4           5         Total      Foreign
Exchange
Agricultural Extension                         2,566.6   1,766.2   1,361.4    1,244.1   1,672.1    8,610.4             3,064.0
Table 2
Animal Fealth                                     236.6      238.0      368.0      508.0        546.0    1,896.6         422.7
T ble 3
A2ricultural Service Centers                   4,584.0   4,584.0   5,602.0          -            -      14,770.0         738.0
T ble 4
AU) BN                                            48.0        96.0      160.0      160.0       160.0       624.0          -
Table 5
Fertilizer                                     5,958.0   8,641.0         -          -           -       14,599.0    10,824.0
Table 6
Training                                           59.5       74.5       77.5       57.5        53.5        322.5         -
fahIe 7
Trails and Bridges                                 -       1,410.0   1,890.0   1,650.0    1,265.0    6,215.0           1,775.0
Table 8
Minor IrriRation                               4,593.9   6,944.6   6,944.6   6,944.6    6,944.6   32,372.3             3,717.0
Table 9
Technical Assistance                           3,338NI    2,678.0   1,483.0        560.0        90.0      8,149.0      7,774.0
Tnble 10
Total Base Costs                              21,384.6  26,432.3  17,886.5  11,124.2   10,731.2    87,558.8    28,314.7
Physical Contingency                           1,167.6   1,859.       -,083.8   1,207.5    1,149.8    7,467.8            809.0
Price Contingency                              1,984.9   4,909.4   5,064.0   4,392.5    5,174.0   21,524.8            7,025.6
Grand Total                                   24,537.1  33,200.8  25,034.3  16,724.2   17,055.0  116,551.4    36,149.3



- 75                     ~                    ANNEX 9
Table 2a
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Service
(NR '000)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4          Year 5
Unit Cost a/        No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost        No.    Cost    No.    Cost         Total Cost
Incremental Staff
L)istrict Staff
DADO                   18.0                1    18.0       1    18.0       1    18.0        1    18.0       1    18.0           90.0
AADo                   14.4                            -           -       -       -       -        -       -       -             -
JT                      9.0                3    27.0       6    54.0       6    54.0       6    54.0        6    54.0         243.0
.ITA                    6.0                3    18.0       5    30.0       5    30.0       5    30.0        5    30.0         138.0
AA                      1.8              15    27.0    40    72.0         50    90.0      50    90.0       50    90.0         369.0
SMS                    14.4                5    72.0       8   115.2       8   115.2      12   172.8       12   172.8         648.0
Sub-total                                            162.0           289.2           307.2            364.8           364.8        1488.0
Project Nanagement
Phoject Manager        24.3                1    24.3       1    24.3       1    24.3        1    24.3       1    24.3          121.5
Project Officer        18.0                1    18.0       1    18.0       1    18.0        1    18.0       1    18.0           90.0
Economist              18.0               1    18.0        1    18.0       1    18.0       1    18.0        1    18.0           90.0
Accounts Asst.         10.8                1    10.8       1    10.8       1    10.8       1    10.8        1    10.8           54.0
Enumerator              7.2               1       7.2      2    14.4       2    14.4       2    14.4        2    14.4           64.8
Admin. Asst.            5.4                1      5.4      1      5.4      1      5.4      1       5.4      1      5.4          27.0
Admin. Clerk/Typist  5.4                  2    10.8        2    10.8       2    10.8       2    10.8        2    10.8          54.0
Other                   3.6               1      3.6       1      3.6      1      3.6      1      3.6       1      3.6          18.0
Sub-total                                             98.1           105.3           105.3            105.3           105.3         519.3
Total Incremental Staff                              260.1           394.5           412.5            470.1           470.1        2007.3
-/Salaries include basic pay plus regular allowances.



76 -
NEPAL                                                                   ANNEX 9
Table 2b
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECE
Agricultural ExtensIon Service
Operating Expenses
NR '000
Unit         Year I              Year 2             Year 3               YeaT 4            Year 5                   Total     FPorign lo-honge
Coat       N..    Coat        No.     Coat        No.    Cost         No.   Cost        No.    Coot                 Cost       /.            Coot
1. Operating Expenses
ASC
Office Supplies                   1.0        6       6.C        12       12.0      20       20.0       20      20.0      20      20.,                 7S.0     10                a
Training Materials                4.2        6      25.2        12       50.4      20       94.0       20      84.0      20      R4.0                327.6    50              164
Building Maintenance              5.0        -        -         -          -        6       30.0       12      60.0      20    100.0                910.0       -              -
Applied Research                   .5        -        -         36       18.0      50       25.0      720      35.0      70      35.0                113.C
District
Office Supplies                   2.0        4       P.1         4        8.0       4        8.0        4       8.0       4       8.0                 40.0     10               4
Training Materials                2.0        1       3.-         1        3.0       1         3.0       1       3.0       1       3.0                 15.0     50               9
Travel Allowances                 4.0        1       4.0         1        4.        1        4.0        1       4.0       1       4.0                 2C. 0     -
Applied Research                   .5        -        -          8        4,0      16        8,0       16       8.0       -        -                  20.0      -
Vehicle Operation                10.0        8      80.0         8       90.0       8       80.0       12     120.0      1;   I00.0                  480.0     80             384
Proieat ManageRent
0ffice Rent                       6.0        I       6.0        1        6.0        1        6.0       1        6.0       1       6.0                30.0       -               -
Office Supplies                              -      20.0                 20.0       *       10.0       -       10.0              10.0                 70.0     10               7
Training Material.                           -      10.0        -        10.0       -        8.0       -        8.0       -      10.0                46.0      50              23
Travel Allowance.                 6.0        1       6.0         1        6.0       1        6,0        1       6.0       1       6.0                 30.rf     -               -
Travel Allowance for SMS          4.0        3      20.0         8       32.0       8       32.0      12      40.0       12      48.^               IP0.0       -               -
Vehicle Operating
4 Wheel Drive                    33.0        2      66.0         3      99.         3       99.0        3     99.0        3      99.0               462.0      80             370
Motorcycl.                       10.0        5      50.          0      00.C                00.0       -       -          -        -                210.0    00               160
MonitorirM4 & Evalastion
Contract Studies                             -     500.C                            -        -              -                   500.0              1000.       -               -
Applied Research Trials           1.0        8       8.0       12       12.0       16       16.0                                                     36.0      -               -
Regional Training Centers
Vehicle Operation
Bus -                           36.0         2      72.0        2       72.0         2      72.0       2      72.0       2      72.5                360.0     80             2P8
Total Gperating Expenses                        884.2               516.4               591.0             591.0            1125.0               3707.6                   1424



J77                                                                   ANNEX 9
Table 2c
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Service
NR '000
Unit         Year I             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4              Year 5                Total          Foreign hoch.nge
Cost       No.       -at      No.    Cost         No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost               Cost         M              Cost
Equip-et & Furniture
Agricultural Service
Centers
Lqoip..ent & Furniture        13.3         6       79.8       6      79.8         8     106.4        -        -         -        -                 266.0
Training Aids                 20.0         6      120.0       6    120.0          8     160.0        -        -         -        -                 400.0
Districts
Equipment & Furniture         10.0         4       40.0       -        -          _         -        -                           -                  40.0
Training Aids                 15.0         4       60.0       -        -          -          -       -        -         -        -                  60.0
Project Managenent
Office Equip-ent                  -         -      20.0       -      20.0         -      10.0        -       10.0       -        -                  60.0
Training Aids                     -         -      25.0       -      25.0          -        -        -        -         -        -                  50.0
TYst plot Equipoent                 -         -      15.0       -      20.0          -        -        -        -         -         -                 35.0
Total Eq.ipnest & Furniture                         359.8             264.8                276.4               10.0                  _               911.0      20             182
Vehicles
Districts
Motorcycle   b/             30.0         R      240.0       -       -           -        -       4-       120.0       -        -                360.0
Pro ject Mna-gessent
4 ,u,                      180.0         1     180.0        1    180.0          -        -        -        -          -        -                360.0
Motorcycle'                 30.0         5      150.0       3      90.0         -        -        -        -          -        -                240,0
4 WD for Applied
Research                 180.0         1      180.0       -       -           -        -        _        _         _        _                 180.0
Regional Training Center
Bus                        240.0         1     240.0        1    240.0          -       _         -        -         -         -                480.0
Total Vehicles                                       990.0            510.0          -       -         -      120.0       -         -               1620.0      90            1458
b/ Motorcycles for use of DADO and AADO.
S/ Motorcycles for use of SMS while seconded to PM
later to be transferred to districts.



- 78 _
ANNEX 9
T?ble 2d
NE PAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Service
(NR'000)
Unite        Year 1             Year 2            Year 3           Year 4             Year S                Total
Training                      Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost              Cost        Foreign Exchange
%I           Cost
Special Short Courses
DADOIAADO/SMS a/             2.0        6       12.0       6      12.0      6        12.0      -       -         10      20.0               56.0
SM ' b/                      1.0        2        2.0       5       5.0      3         3.0      4        4.0       8       8.0               22.0
JT Management j/
2 weeks                   .5       -         -       10        5.0    10         5.0      -         -        -         -               10.0
JTIJTA Crops
2 weeks                   .5      25       12.5      25       12.5    25        12.5      -         -        -         -               37.5
AA                            .5       80      40.0      80       40.0    80         40.0     80      40.0      80       40.0              200.0
Training Visits
(Nepal) for
DADO/AADO/SMS                3.0        2       6.0       2       6.0       3        9.0       3       9.0       3        9.0               39.0
Tota; Training                                   72.5               80.5              81.5               53.0               77.0             364.5
Total Agricultural atention Service         2,566,6            1,766.2            1,361.4            1,244.1           1,672.1            8,610.4                3,064
a  Extension management and planning course
SMS Special training in country, 1 month
JT course in management



- 79
ANNEX 9
NEPAL                                          Table 3
HILL FOOD PRODUCYXON PROJECT
Lives took Development and Animal Health
(NH '000)
Dolt        Year 1             Year 2           Year 3             Year 4           Year 5                  Total    Foreigo Oochatge
Too      Ho.    Cost       Ho.    Coat       No.    Cost.      No.    Coat       Ho.    Coat                Coat   2.           Coot
1. lncrr,oertal Staff
District
iT                           9.0      4       36.0      4       36.0      4       36.0      4       36.0      4       36.0               190.0
iTS                          6.0       4      24.0       8      49.0     16       96.0     20      120.0     20      120.0               409J
ci                           1.0     12       21.6     30       54.0     50       90.0     HO      144.0    100      190.0               449.5
Sob-total                                 91.6             138.0             222.0             300.0             336.0              1377.6
Project Monageneot
1-rogran cfficer            10.0       1      16.0       1      16.0      1       18.0      1       18.0      1       18.0                90.0
Total Staff                               99.6             106.0             240.0             319.0            304.0               147.c
01. loclgnoot & Foroitoro
ASC
Sqclpooot 4 Furoitore        1.0       4       4.0      4        4.0      9        1.0      4        4.0     -         -                  20.0    20           5
Tratotog Aids                1.0       5       4.0      4        4.0      8        0.0      4        4.0     -         -                  20.0    10          10
District
tqclpsoeot                   5.0      4       20.0      -         -       -         -       -         -      -          -                 00.0    20           4
Tralsiog aids                5.0      4       20.0       -        -       -         -       -         -      -          -                 20.0    50          10
Pro joct Honageneot
OqaipoeOt                    5.0       1       5.0       -        -       -         -       -         -      -          -                  5.0    20           1.2
Trofsissg Aids               5.0       1       5.0       -                -                 -                -                             5.0    50           0.5
Total iqolpoont &
Farnitoor                               58.0               6.0             16.0               8.0                                  90.0                 31.7
III. Vehicles
frojoot Maoaoeoeot
Motorcycle                  30         1      30.0      -        -       -          -       -        -        -                           30.0    90          22



NO 80ANNEX 9
no 0-4                                                      Table 3b
8.LL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Livestock Develogornt and Antnal ieelth
Urrt         Ye-r               Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5                Total        Foreign Exchan-e
Cost      No.    Coet        No.   Cest        No.   Cost        NoSoa             o.    Cost              Cost           7          .Cost
IV. r.e_ratong st:oseo
..sc ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.
U.e ,r l                        1.0        4       4.0        P      8.0       16      16,0     20      20.0      20       20.0               68.0
tacc  c  'OCC00  Ises           5.0         5      5,0       10    10.0        20      20.0     40      40.0      45       45.0              120.0      90           0OP
reon ea'("O  coos             2.0         5      ICOC       10    20.0       20      40.0      40      80.0      45       90.0             240.0      90            216
aistrlct
Ceccorol                       l.C          4      4.C        4      4.0        4      4.0       4       4.0       4        4.0               20.2
Crave>;                        1.D         4       4.C        4      4.0        4      4.0       4       4.0       4        4.0               20.C
cr0 oit Mlaragernent
General                         1.0                2.4               4.0               4.0               5.0                5.0               20.0
.Yoto-;ycle                   0I.,          I     10.0        1    1C.0         1      10.0       1     10.0       1       10.0               50.0      80            40
rota: lozerating
occcensns                                   39.0              60.0              98.0             163.0              178.0             538.0                    364
V.   Tr-in,ic
h-cort Gorsos
JT/JOA ot .t060001
trainir   - center              .5         S       4.0        4      2.0       8       4.0       8       4.0       8        4.0              18.0
AA at egional
t-sileig center                 .S        12       6.0       18      9.0      20      10.0      30      15.0      20       10.0              50.0
OraLnino Viaitn Nlepal           3.0          -       -         1      3.0        -        -       -        -        -         -                 3.0
Total Tral-isg                                 10.0             14.0               14.0              19.0              14.0               71.0
Total Ani-Il Health                           236.6            238.0              368.0             508.0             546.0             1896.6                   422.7



NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT                                   Annex 9
Agricultural Service Centers                                   Table 4
(NR '000)
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5          Total             Foreign
Unit Cost   No.   Cost   No.  Cost   No   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost                Cost             Exchange
Agricultural Complex a/   113        6      678    6    678    8    904    -          _      _     _           2260             %
Houses JT d/            80      6     480    6    480    3    240    -          -      -      -          1200
JTA             60    12       720   12    720.  16    960    -          -     -      -           2400
Livestock Development
and Animal Health b/         20      6      120    6    120    8    160                     -                   400
House JTA               60      6     720    6    720    8    960    -                                   2400
ADBN c                        27     6      162    6    162    8    216    -             -         -            540
House Staff             60      6     720    6    720    8    960    -           -     -      -           2400
Cooperatives/Sajha
Office                  22      6     132    6    132    8    176    -           -     -      -            440
Warehouse 20            22      6     132    6    132    3        66    -        -     -      -            330
House Staff             60      6      720    6    720    8    960    -        _       -      -           2400
4584         4584         5602           -             -         14,770              5      738
a/ Agricultural Complex consists of Agricultural office 24m2
Storage Room 6m , multipurpose building 30m
b/ Animal Health Dispensary 10M2
c/ ADBN office and storage 15m2
4/ Five JT houses and warehouses for Sajha are provided at ASC
by GADP.



ANNEX 9
Table 5
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Agricultural Development Bank
(NR '000)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5        - Total
Unit Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost                Cost
Incremental Staff
Loan Asst.                 8.0         6    48.0    12    96.0    20   160.0    20   160.0    20   160.0              624.0
Annex 9
Table 6
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT                                                       0
Fertilizer
(NR '000)
Unit          Year 1       Year 2        Year 3      Year 4        Year 5       Total
Cost      No.   Cost   No. Cost    No.   Cost  No.  Cost   No.   Cost   No.  Cost               Foreign Exchange
Agriculture Input                                                                                                                Cost
Corporation
for Fertilizer
Tons            1,310           1,900
Cost                    5,958         8,641                                                14,599                 10,824



NEPAL                                                  ANNEX 9
Table 7
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Training
(NR '000)
Unit      Year 1          Year 2          Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
Cost     No.    NR      No.    NR        No.   NR    No.   NR       No.   NR       Total
Training ADBN
Management                     1.0        6     6.0      6     6.0       6    6.0    6    6.0    -        -        24.0
Accounting                     1.0        -      -      10    10.0      10   10.0   10   10.0    -        -        30.0
General                         .5        -      -      12     6.0      12    6.0    -       -      12    6.0      18.0
Loan Procedure                  .8       10     8.0      -      -       10    8.0    -       -      -     -        16.0
Sub-total                                  14.0           22.0           30.0         16.0            6.0      88.0
Training AIC
Management                     1.0        4     4.0      -       -       -      -      5    5.0      -     -        9.0
Accounting                     1.0        -      -       5     5.0       -      -     -      -       5    5.0      10.0
General                         .5        8     4.0      -      -                     8    4.0       -     -        8.0
Sub-total                                   8.0            5.0              -           9.0           5.0      27.0
Training Sajhas
A.  Staff Training
Management                 1.0      10    10.0    10    10.0        10   10.0    -       -      10   10.0      40.0
Accounting                 1.0      -       -       10    10.0      10   10.0   10   10.0    10   10.0         40.0
General                     .5      10      5.0    10      5.0      10    5.0   -        -       -     -       15.0
B.  Member Training                            22.5           22.5            22.5         22.5          22.5    112.5
37.5           47.5           47.5         32.5          42.5    207.5
Total Training                                   59.5            74.5           77.5         57.5          53.5    322.5



Annex 9
Table 8
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Trails and Bridges
Foreign
Unit   Cost         Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5          Total,    Exchange
No.   Cost          Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost    No.   Cost  Cost  %
Civil Works
Trail
Improvement          km    14.5       -       -    20      290    20       290    20      290    10      145      70  1,015   55   5
Minor Bridges a      ea    120         -      -      6      720    10   1,200      8      960      6      720     30  3,600 1,080  30
Major Bridges b/   ea    400                  -      1     400      1      400     1      400      1     400       4  1,600   640  40
1,410          1,890          1,65f           1,265          6,215 1,775
average 50 m in length at  NR 2,400/mr
b average 80 m in length at Nr 5,000/m



- 85 -
NEPAL                                              Table 9a
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Mindr Irrigation
(NRs '000)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4          Year 5        Total       Forilign
Unit Cost    No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost        Cost       Exc,ange
Incremental Staff                                                                                                                   %   NR
Cost
Chief Engineer            19.5         1    19.5      11    19.5        1    19.5       1    19.5       1    19.5        97.5
Water Management
Specialist              19.5        -       -        1    19.5       1    19.5        1    19.5       1    19,5        78.0
Junior Engineer           15.6         4    62.4       4    62.4        4    62.4       4    62.4       4    62.4       312.0
Overseers                  9.8         4    39.2       8    78.4        8    78.4       8    78.4        8    78.4      352.8
Sub-Overseers              8.0         8    64.0      16   128.0       16   128.0      16   128.0      16   128.0       576.0
Draftsmen                 12.0         5    60.0       5    60.0        5    60.0       5    60.0        5    60.0      300.0
Clerk/Typist/Acct.         7.2         4    28.8       4    28,8        4    28.8       4    28.8       4    28.8       144.0
Drivers                    4.0         4    16.0       4    16.0        4    16.0       4    16.0       4    16.0        80.0
Peons                      4.0         3    12.0       3    12.0        3    12.0       3    12.0        3    12.0       60.0
Sub Total                               301.9           424.6            424.6           424.6           424.6   2,000.3
Operating Expenses
O & M for Vehicles        27.0         4   108.0       4   108.0        4   108.0       4   108.0       4    108.0    540.0         80  432
Office Expenses                             12.0             12.0            12.0             12.0             12.0      60.0       10    6
Sub Total                               120.0           120.0            120.0           120.0            120.0    600.0             438



- 6-                                                 Annex 9
Table 9b
NEPAL
HILL FOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
(NRs '000)
Item             Unit   Cost      Year 1          Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5       Total
Capital Cost                   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost    Costs
Irrigation
Schemes          1   200.0   16  3,200.0   32  6,400.0   32  6,400.0   32  6,400.0   32  6,400.0  28,800.0              10         2,880
Equipment:                                                                                                     144.0      90            130
Surveying        Set    36.0    4    144.0   -          -       -      -       -       -      -       -        144.0      90            130
Camping          Set    12.0    2       24.0   -        -       -       -              -       -      -          24.0     70             17
Drawing
Office          Set    24.0    1       24.0   -        -              -       -       -       -      -         24.0      90             22
Miscellaneous   Lump
Equipment       Sum   60.0    1       60.0   -        -       -      -       -       -      -       -         60.0      35            20
Vehicles:           1  180.0    4    720.0   -          -       -       -       -      -       -       -       720.0      9(           648
Sub Total Equipment & Vehicles    972.0                                                                      972.0       -           837
GRAND TOTAL IRRIGATION               4,593.9        6,944.6        6,944.6         6,944.6        6,944.6  32,372.3        -         3,717



- 87 -
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(NR '000)                                                 ANNEX 9
Table 10
Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4       Year 5   Total   Foreign  E-change
Unit          Cost       No.   Coat   No.  Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost  No. Cost   Cost    7.                      ^ost
Consultants
Local
Agronomist                             man/month         6.0         6        36   8        48   6         36     -      -   -      -       120
Communications/Training Officer   man/month              6.0         3        18   6        36   4         24     1      6   -    -          84
Monitoring & Evaluation                man/month         6.0         2        12   2        12   2         12                                36
66            96             72            6   -    -         240
International                                                              (US$ '000)
Agronomist                             man/month        11.0       12        132   8        q6   4         44    -       -272
Engineer                               man/month        11.0         7        77   7        77   3         33    3    33                    220
Communications/Training                man/month        11.0         2        22   2        22   2         22    -       -   =    =          66
Sub - Total International
US$                                                                         231.          195             99           33                  558
NR                                                                       2.772         2.340          1,188           396               6,696       100    t,t9t
Subtotal Consultants                                                      2,838         2,436           1,260          402                6,936               b,6Yt
Vehicles and Equipment                                                     (NR ' 000)
4 WD vehicle                                            180        2        360    -       -    -          -    -       -   -       -      360    90           324
Equipment                                                -         -         20    -       20   -         10     -      -   -       -      50    76             38
Sub total                                                                  380             20             10                                                   362
Operating Expenses
Vehicles                                                 35          -       70            70    -        70     -    35    -              246
Miscellaneous                                            -           -       50   -        50    -        35      -    15   -              150
Sub total                                                                 120           120            105           50                   395    80           316
Total Consultants                                                                                                                         7,741               7.374
International Training
Agricultural Extension & Service
at international center                                                       1       90      1      90      1   90      1    90      360
Regional Short Visits                                                             2         6      3       9      3    9                    24
Animal Health and Husbandry                                                       2         6      3       9      3    9                    24
Total Training                                                                         102            lOS          IPA           91     403                 400
Total Tech. Assistance                                                   3,338         2,678          1,483           560           90   8,149               7,774



- 88 _
ANNEX 9
Chart 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Organization of Principal Activities
H1MG
nistry ofMinistry of                                                                               Mnistry ofMinistry o
Food &                                                                       Local                  Non                 Works  n
Auriculture                                                                 Development            Panch yats            Transpor
Dept. of      Dept. oLie- 
Agricultr       stock, Develop-      FIU -        AlC                                Board
meot andAni-
mal Health
Region                             7 1          RgoRegi         egioal                                  Regional
RDA                                           Office         Ofc
Pro gera
Officerfi cer
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coand C         sBranch                               Dstrict          Dist:rict                                        Chie
-----F    --t  Office __                                       Office __        Sajha    - _   _____ District                  Disrict                DTO|
|IASCIl               _            Field  -_ _   ____             AC           r 
I                                                                 I- _       nt     a n l s  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rI 
-Cormand Channels
---Advisory



ANNEX 9
Chart 2
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Flow of Direct Costs and Credit
IDA
HMG
0,
_    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
tMinistry  |            Ministry l
of Food                  of
and                 Finance
AIC
Project Activities                         I l  l
_  i                 ' . .' ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ' -_-    .
Direct Costs
------Credit                                                      r



- 90 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
NEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECT
Reference Material Available in
South Asia Regional Information Center
A.   Documents Relating to the Project
1.   Nepal Hill Agricultural Reconnaisance/Identification Mission-
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Rome; Report 28/79 NEP 13;
18 June 1979.
2.   Nepal Hill Area Agriculture Development Project;
Preparation Mission (Vols. I & II) FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme, Rome; Report 12/80 NEP 14; 29 February 1980.
3.   Nepal Agricultural Sector Review; World Bank, Washington, D.C.;
Report 2205-NEP; 27 April 1979.
4.   A Study of Hill Agriculture in Nepal - Rockefeller Foundation Team;
April 1976.
5.   National Sample Census of Agriculture 1971/72, Nepal - HMG National
Planning Commission Secretariat, Kathmandu, 1976.
6.   Gandaki Agriculture Development Project - HMG, Nepal and Federal
Republic of Germany; February 1978.
7.   A Study of Fertilizer Use in Gandaki Zone of Nepal;  German Agency
for Technical Cooperation, Berlin, 1978.
8.   Small Farmers Development Project Manual; April 7-11, 1980,
Kathmandu, Nepal.
9.   Integrated Cereals Project Semi-annual Report; October 1979-March
1980, DOA, Kathmandu.
10. Lumle Agricultural Centre Quarterly Report; October 31-December 31,
1979; Nepal, Gandaki Zone.
11. A Manual for the Design of Small Hill Irrigation Schemes in Nepal;
Rural Development Project (Rasuwa/Nuwakot) Kathmandu (March 1980).
12. Proposal for a Pilot Extension Project-Integrated Cereals Project;
HMG, February 1980; DOA, Kathmandu.
13. Nepal Staff Appraisal Report; Second Rural Development Project;
Mahakali Hills; May 31, 1979; Report 2401-NEP.



- 91 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
14. Report on Fertilizer Marketing System of Nepal; Contract No.
NP 68 005; FAO by Agro Management Consultants Ltd. Solihull, UK.
15.  Nepal - The Fifth Plan (1975-80) in Brief; HMG, 1975.
16.  District Administration Plan, HMG, Kathmandu, 1975.






~~~~~~~~~~  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NEEPAL
HILL FOOD PRODUCTION PROJECTCHN
PROJECT AREA AND FACILITIESAN G
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                  i      DISTRICT TOWNS/CFNTERS                           l     A       N      A        N       G         '
cPROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SERVICE                TRUNK ROADS 
ENTERS                                                      -  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN SIJRNA   I
CENROOES  T-LIMROEM-T  ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                   7937 U/                                                       ' 
28'30' ~~~PROJECT DISTRICTSDSTICBONARIE2-31
C)    TRAINING CENTER-SINZONAL>OALBOUNDARIES
AIC STORAGE DEPOTS                            RTRERS     /ALBIMAR1                                                                                      M.RNACIHOLL
O     PROJECT RELATES VILLAGES            ~          MUTISADEEAIN
7OSR~~~~~~~~~~ ~G                                     A                    N                   D                \A                        KI
DISTRICTS       LOCATION AS.C
Mao,,gu,k                                                                                                                                                           f                                                           .,
A,,r, RS, ri
S-0dU  Daa-,                                                                                                               Bs Saoho
CRglD RhSthU                                                                                                                                                                                                              BAGMATI
DDgrIR  MRSRAIIdk 
0. ,ph~~~~~~-                                                                                                      
-28'00hraOpRI                         7                                                                   k' 
OSraRErRI  -.  N.J                                                           N.                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                N, OPUOR SUPURONRR,,RR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8500
5'S                                                                                                                                                 WDOON,,,O/PC&,OUOU U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"YL
L U M  B    N  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U 
20  25                                                                                                                                    A,,b,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~  
01  ?                                                                                                                                                                          5,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U Sr,  ~I '  O
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                      I'        \                               D
EASED                   0
83'35                                8455'                                                                                                                                            SO'             soT. *        07'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'0
ES-          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '0



