Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 11163
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2200-PH)
SEPTEMBER 18, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operation Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit : Peso (P)
Appraisal Year 1982  1  US$1.00 - P  8.30
Intervening Years 1983  i  US$1.00 - P 11.11
1984      US$1.00 - P 16.69
1985      US$1.00 - P 18.61
1986      US$1.00 = P 20.39
1987      US$1.00 - P 21.00
1988  a  US$1.00 - P 21.25
1989  X  US$1.00 - P 22.28
Completion Year 1990  X  US$1.00 - P 28.00
LIST OF ABREVIATIONS
ADB               -   Asian Development Bank
ATIBFI            -   Apparet and Textile Industry Board Foundation Inc.
BEMS              -   Building and Equipment Maintenance System
BOI               -   Board of Investments
CALABARZON        -   Cavite - Laguna - Batangas - Rizal - Quezon
CAR               -   Cordillera Administrative Region
COA               -   Commission on Audit
CONGER            -   Confederation of Garments Exporters in the Philippines
CTC               -   Community Training Center
CTP               -   Community Training Program
CITC              -   Construction Industry Training Center
DPM               -   Department of Budget and Management
DECS              -   Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DILP              -   DOLE integrated Livelihood Program
DOLE              -   Department of Labour and Employment
DPWH              -   Department of Public Works and Highways
EPTS              -   Enterprise-Based Training System
EDTP              -   Entrepreneurship Development Training Program
FAS               -   Fiscal Agency Service
FOREX             -   Foreign Exchange
GBAP              -   Garments Business Association of the Philippines
GITP              -   Garments Industry Training Program
GOP               -   Government of the Philippines
GTEB              -   Garments and Textile Export Board
HRD               -   Human Resources Development
HRSTC             -   Hotel and Restaurant Specialized Training Center
lCB               -   International Competitive Bidding
ILO               -   International Labor Organization
INC               -   International Negotiated Contract
INFODOS           -   Information and Documentation System
ISDP              -   Industry Specific Development Program
LC                -   Letter of Credit
LCB               -   Local Competitive Bidding
LMYC              -   Local Manpower and Youth Committee
MAC               -   Manpower Advisory Committee
MIS               -   Management Information System
NEDA              -   National Economic and Development Authority
NISD              -   National Institute for Skills Development
NMYC              -   National Manpower and Youth Council
NGO               -   Non-Government Organization
NSTC              -   National Skills Training Center
PCR               -   Project Completion Report
PFC-CODA          -   Project Facilitation Committee - Committee on Official
Development Assistance
PLACER            -   Placement Assistance Center
PMTC              -   Provincial Manpower Training Center
PHU               -   Project Management Unit
RMDO              -   Regional Manpower Development Office
RMTC              -   Regional Manpower Training Center
TCS               -   Training Contract Scheme
TREND             -   Training for Rural Enterprise Development
TTS               -   Trade Testing Station
VET               -   Vocational Education and Training
VTP               -   Vocational Training Project
WA                -   Withdrawal Application
WB                -   World Bank
YESDEV            -   Youth Entrepreneurship and Self-Employment Development
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 18, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Philippines Vocational Training
Proiect (Loan 2200-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Philippines Vocational Training Project (Loan 2200-PH)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2200-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .
Evaluation Summary  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    iii
PART I. Prolect Review From Bank's Perspective
1. Project Identity  ........ ..            ........
2. Project Background  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .1
3. Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . 3
4. Project Design and Identification   . . . . . . . . , . . 7
5. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
6. Major Results of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
7. Management of Industrial Training   . . . . . . . . . . 11
8. Project Sustainability  ....  .  .  .    ......  .  .   .  12
9. Bank Performance  ....  .  .   .  .  .    ...... .  .  .   .  13
10. Borrower Performance  ....  .  .  .    .. ..... .  .    .  14
11. Project Relationships   ....  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .   .  14
12. Consulting Services   ....  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .    .  15
13. Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
PART II. Prolect Review from Borrower's Perspective
A. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III 16
B.  Evaluation of Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C. Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance and
Lessons Learned.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
PART III.  Statistical Information
3.1 Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
3.2 Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
3.3 Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . . . 20
3.4 Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
3.5 Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.6 Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.7 Project Results . .................   27
3.8 Compliance with Loan Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . 30
3.9 Bank Missions.. ..............   31
ANNEXES
ANNEX A - Brief Description and S-maary of Accomplishment of Project
Components 1982-1990
ANNEX B - Organizational Structure of the Project Management Unit
ANNEX C - Summary of Staffing Complement, Project Management Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2200-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Vocational
Training Project, for which a loan in the amount of US$ 24.40 million
equivalent was approved on 21 September 1982. On 15 October 1987, US$ 8.0
million equivalent was cancelled at the request of the Government of the
Philippines. The accounts were closed on 2 July, 1991, nearly five years
after the original closing date. The final disbursement was made on 2 July,
1991 at which time, US$1.53 million equivalent remained undisbursed and was
cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Part I of this report were
prepared by the Bank's Population and Human Resources Division, Country
Department I, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, based on a review of
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3750b-PH of August 26, 1982; the Loan Agreement of
October 28, 1982, and its subsequent amendments; project files, including Bank
supervision reports and internal memoranda; and the Borrower's PCR submitted
by the National Manpower and Youth Council in December 1990, and revised in
1991. Key parts of the Borrower's Report are included as Part II and Annexes
of this Report. Bank staff involved in the project's supervision were also
consulted, and discussions were held with Government officials on the report
in the course of processing a follow-up vocational training project.
The East Asia and Pacific Regional Office wishes to express its
appreciation to the Government and, in particular, NMYC staff for their
contributions to this report.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2200-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The project was originally designed to support the Government's
industrial development program by addressing major policy, management and
training issues affecting industrial training through its major training
agency the NMYC. These issues included the development of the institutional
capability of NMYC through (i) improved managerial capability; and, for (ii)
manpower planning; (iii) the planning and rationalizing of training (at
craftsmen level and below) to avoid overlapping and duplication of effort;
(iv) expanding training places; (v) introducing flexibility in the length of
training courses for improved cost-effectiveness; (vi) engaging employers in
planning, organizing and undertaking training and expanding tailor-made
courses for identified skill groups; (vii) improving the quality of training;
and (viii) strengthening quality control through the development of a national
system of trade testing and certification. Specifically the project was to;
Management of Industrial Trainina
(a) Reorganize and strengthen the NMYC Secretariat;
(b) Improve NMYC manpower planning and training evaluation;
(c) Establish a Management Information System for training nationally;
Strengthening Industrial Trainina
(a) Establish and implement an industrial sector - focussed training
scheme;
(b) Expand training facilities and establish an equipment maintenance
service;
Trade Testina and Certification
(a) Develop additional training standards and a data bank of trade
tests; and
(b) Establish trade testing facilities.
Implementation Experience
The project was to be implemented in four years from 1983 to 1987
with the loan closing date originally scheduled for December 31, 1986. The
project encountered implementation delays and required four extensions
amounting to over four years to July 2. 1991 before the loan was closed. The
project's slow pace of implementation was due mainly to national and political
difficulties including budget constraints and site acquisition problems,
predominantly outside the control of NMYC. Project performance improved



- iv -
considerably after 1986, when the EDSA revolution occurred, and NMYC was aided
by significant increases in budgetary allocations as a result of the priority
given by the then new Government.
Results
The project's broad objectives were largely met. During the nearly
nine years of the life of the project, responsiveness of training to labor
market and employees needs; flexibility in training design and execution;
systematic training program evaluation; and the introduction of a national
system of trade testing and certification have become institutionalized. In
addition, the success of the training contract scheme as an instrument for
involving industry and building-up industry's capability and (though still to
be achieved) cost-bearing ability is commendable.
Less successful were the results of efforts to improve the
management of NMYC and manpower planning for the training sub-sector. This
was partly due to (a) poor project preparation of this item, including a lack
of clarity in defining what precisely was to be improved at the time of
appraisal; (b) i lack of priority of attention accorded this objective by the
NMYC compared to that accorded the other objectives which involved large
physical components; (c) an apparent lack of monitoring of actions relating to
this objective on the part of the Bank staff during supervision, and (d) a
loss of NMYC senior staffing and organizational dislocation at the time of,
and following, the 1986 EDSA revolution when significant numbers of the few
senior managers and professional planning staff left NMYC. The recently
appointed new management of NMYC has recognized the high priority need to
address the issue of sectoral institutional management and - quite separately
- the need for adequate manpower planning as mandated to NMYC by the
Legislative Act and the Labor Code - NMYC has taken strong steps to correct
such institutional deficiencies, both through its normal development plan and
through the proposed follow-up Bank project.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
Strong Government commitment to improvements achieved under the
project and the high priority given to the follow-up project currently being
negotiated, indicate they will be sustained in the future. There is now a
more widespread, deeper understanding of the issues in developing skills
training nationally and locally, and of the relationship between public and
private sector roles. There is strong Government commitment to NMYC and
understanding of its role as the key policy making and planning body for VET.
Management and manpower planning issues are still serious, but awareness has
deepened and their dimensions better understood. Both have assured high
profiles and are being addressed in the project's follow-up. Flexibility in
approaching training and enhancing relevancy of training and quality to meet
labor market needs together with cost-recovery evaluation of training are
deeply embedded in NMYC training activities.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Bank staff contributed towards project success through substantial
assistance in project design and implementation. A flexible approach taken by



-v -
the Bank during implementation, particularly with the prevailing national poor
economic performance and political instability, was a major contribution to
its success. These points constitute positive lessons learned for the future.
Other findings and lessons learned include the need to ensure site acquisition
as early as possible in the project cycle and evaluate procurement procedures.
Finally, that the Bank should pay attention to the staffing of supervision
missions and ensure that appropriate skills are included.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2200-PH)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prolect Identitv
Project Name                 Vocational Training Project
Loan                         2200 - PH
RVP Unit                     East Asia and Pacific Regional Office,
Country Department I
Country                      Philippines
Sector               :       Education
Subsector                    Technical and Vocational
2.  Prolect BackRround
Sectorial Objectives : Industrial Development Strategy and Manpower
Requirements
2.1       The manufacturing sector in the Philippines at the time of Project
Appraisal accounted for 25% of Gross Domestic Product. Although the non-
traditional manufactured export industry grew rapidly during the 1970's,
industries producing primarily for the domestic markets accounted for about
75% of the total manufacturing output. In 1975, more than 70Z of
manufacturing value added and 65% of manufacturing employment were
concentrated in the Metropolitan Manila area. Small and medium scale
industries (employing two thirds of the manufacturing work force but producing
less than 5% of total manufacturing output) were generally characterized by
low labor productivity. Employment creation had been slow because of the
relatively low growth rate of the industrial sector. Employment in
manufacturing expanded at an average annual rate of about 3% between 1975 and
1980, creating approximately 50,000 jobs per annum but absorbing less than
one-tenth of the annual increase in the labor force.
2.2       The Government's industrial development strategy, as outlined in
the Five-Year Development Plan (1978-1982) and the Industrial Development
Strategy for the same period, sought to enhance the development of industry
and accelerate employment generation particularly in small-and-medium-size
enterprises. However, progress had been constrained due to a lack of
experienced entrepreneurs, craftsmen and semi-skilled workers. The Government
began a major industrial reform program, under which employment in
manufacturing was expected to increase by 4.8% per annum . At this rate, the
manufacturing sector was expected to generate an average of 100,000 new jobs
annually during the 1980's and account for about one sixth of the total



-2-
national job creation. The success of these measures called for the
availability of a commensurate supply of adequately trained skilled manpower.
2.3       The Labor Force and Employment. In the 1970's the working age
population had grown by 3.5% per year, considered as one of the highest rates
in Southeast Asia. According to the National Development Plan, the population
entering the labor force would cause it to grow, between 1980 and 1986, by
some 4 million, from 17.6 million to 21.6 million, and calling for the
creation of an average of about 670,000 new jobs annually.
2.4       The export of skilled manpower, particularly to the Middle East
(80:), while earning foreign exchange, constituted a local skill drain which
severely depleted the skilled workforce and accounted for about three quarters
of the total manpower exported (over 266,000) from 1975 to 1980. These losses
posed problems affecting quality and competitiveness for local industry. The
Government recognized that efforts to organize specialized, non-formal
training were required for industry, particularly for the key construction
sector which was hardest hit, and also for other important industries such as
metals, engineering and wood products, all increasingly affected by the export
drain of skilled workers.
2.5       Skills Requirements.  The average skill level of the labor force
was very low. In the 1975 population census, only 8% of the labor force was
registered as having undergone any form of formal or non-formal vocational
education or industrial training at the technician level and below. By 1980,
an estimated 11% of the labor force had undergone skills training, however, of
these only 0.5 million (3%) possessed industrial skills even though demand
was increasing.
Vocational Education and Training (VET)
2.6       The growth in VET institutional capacity had been impressive
between 1970 and 1980. Yet, from a low base, only about 70,000 trained
workers emerged annually with industrial skills, or just over half the new
annual requirements. This excluded skill upgrading needs. While the total
enrollments in VET had doubled between 1970 and 1980, there were serious
problems. The main problems were identified as: (a) management weakness in
institutions engaged in the training sub-sector, (b) weakness in manpower
planning and organization of training; (c) lack of relevance of training
programs to current industrial needs; (d) low quality of trainee graduates
and; (e) shortage of funding.
2.7       The main agencies engaged in VET included firstly. the National
Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC) established in 1969 as the national VET
policy making body, with responsibility for national manpower planning. In
1974, it was given 'line' training responsibility for out-of-school youth
through 10 Regional Training Centers operating non-formal programs of a few
weeks to nine months duration. Output in 1980 was about 110,000 graduates.
Secondly, the Department of Education. Culture and Sports (DECS) offered four-
year trade technical secondary courses in 129 (1980) national schools of arts
and trade. Other government agencies offered specialized courses such as
agriculture and trade, while the Ministry of Labor operated a small



-3 -
apprenticeship scheme. In addition, there were approximately 1.163 vocational
schools, most of dubious quality, in the private sector.
3.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Proiect Obiectives
3.1       To support the Government's industrial development program and to
address the major policy and management issues affecting industrial training,
the main thrust of the Project was to broaden and strengthen the infra-
structure of national industrial training. In particular, it would (a)
strengthen the NMYC management system, enabling it to improve both manpower
planning and organization and administration of training schemes at the
national level; (b) establish a system of contracting for sector specific
training to serve the needs or employed workers in seven priority subsectors;
(c) and expand the skill testing and certification system to improve quality.
Proiect Description
3.2       To achieve these objectives, the Project provided funds for civil
works. furniture, equipment, and technical assistance to:
Management of Industrial Training
(a) Reorganize and strengthen the NMYC Secretariat;
(b) Improve NMYC Manpower Planning and Training Evaluation; and
(c) Establish a Management Information System and Equipment Maintenance
Service.
Strengthen Industrial Training
(a) Establish and implement a Sector Specific Training Scheme to
provide training for 76,000 industrial employees; and
(b) Expand training facilities.
Trade Testing and Certification
(a) Develop additional training standards and a data bank of trade
tests; and
(b) Establish trade testing facilities.
Proiect Design and Components
3.3       The project was well designed, though the planning and management
component could have been better focussed. Project design and its components,
however, were affected significantly by the EDSA Revolution and change of
government in 1986. In 1984, the Philippines had already begun to experience
a serious economic recession. Characterized by responsibility for poor
economic performance, an almost stagnant GNP and serious unemployment, the
'Marcos Government' was overthrown and a new government was installed in 1986.
As one of its new endeavors, the industrial development strategy was reviewed
and redesigned to give a stronger rural-based emphasis. The new Government



- 4 -
sought, inter alia to (i) promote regional development and rural employment
through small scale and labor intensive enterprises in the rural areas, (ii)
create a structure of industrial growth that would be less import dependent,
and (iii) expand production and exports of light consumable goods. The
project was redesigned to reflect these priorities as well as to address the
Government's decision to cut foreign exchange needs generally across all
foreign assisted projects.
3.4       The project originally consisted of three major categories.
Components, as originally appraised in 1982. included:
(a) Physical Facilities and Equipment
Civil works: Construction of four new Regional Manpower Training Centers
(RMTCs); two Trade Testing Centers; and a Construction Industry Training
Center (CITC). Equipment/furniture: Training tools and equipment, furniture
and spare parts for the new RMTCs and existing ones. Building and Equipment
Maintenance System (BEMS): Development of an agency-wide BEMS; procurement of
tools and spare parts.
(b) Manpower and Planning
Corporate planning: Evaluation of the organization and management system of
NMYC Secretariat to determine communication weaknesses and overlapping of
functions and formulation of a new NMYC structure. Manpower information
system: Introduction of an electronic data processing services to increase and
help rationalize the information storage and retrieval capacity of NMYC
thereby establishing an effective low cost system to monitor all training
delivery. Accounting system: Establishment of a separate accounting system
that would maintain accounts in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices. Advisory committees: Expansion/
strengthening and establishment of local Manpower and Youth Committees to
provide a forum for the discussion of local manpower training needs. Manpower
planninR: Collection of data on existing stock of skilled manpower, install a
system for the continuous assessment of training needs, and devise means of
channelling information, development of desegregated implementable manpower
plans at the national, regional and local levels and development of an overall
manpower planning model. Manpower evaluation: Study the effectiveness of the
then existing system of training evaluation and develop a low cost scheme to
measure the internal and external effectiveness of all training programs.
Manpower guidance: Development of guidance materials for workers in industry
and provision of audio-visual equipment.
(c) Training Programs and quality
Sector specific training: Establishment of a system of training contracts
wherein approved training entities and industrial firms would provide
specified training under a cost sharing mechanism. Mobile training scheme for
the Garment Industry: Provision of seven (7) mobile units comprising
equipment, trailers and traction units to conduct training on factory
premises. ApprenticeshiR training: Study and restructure the existing
apprentice system to suit present-day requirements of industries. Hotel and
Restaurant Industry: Development of an appropriate training strategy for the



-5-
industry. Instructor'. trainine: Recruitment and training of 106 trade
instructors for the new RMTCs. Rural mobile training scheme: Provision of
equipment for nine mobile unit., four vehicles and a boat to complement RMTC
training. Training modules develooments Development of learning elements to
produce 448 training modules. Trainina standards: Development of forty-two
additional standards and a Data Bank of Trade Tests.
In addition, technical assistance and fellovahips were to be provided and to
include twenty-nine man-years of both local and foreign fellowships.
3.5       In 1986, the Project began to be restructured following Government
instructions to reduce foreign debt by an 'across the board' public sector
cut. In the case of the NMYC, this resulted in the cancellation of US$ 8
million from the original loan. Some of the original components were
maintained, some were deleted or modified to meet prevailing priorities and
other new items were added. The project objectives, however, remained intact
and a reappraisal was not deemed necessary. The bulk of the savings made were
a result of civil works cuts, which included deleting the proposed new
construction industry training center and two trade training centers and
adding their functions to other existing institutions; using more simplified
and less costly designs for buildings; reviewing equipment and furniture lists
and reducing items in line with the new training priorities; cutting TA,
particularly foreign experts and some overseas training. On the other hand, a
fifth RMTC was included, as well as 4 small provincial training Centers
(costing US$ 0.5 million each) and funds were provided for rural outreach
basic skills training using temporary facilities; and, for additional support
to the training contract scheme, other employee related schemes and
entrepreneur training.
3.6       More specifically, the restructured project included:
(a) Trainina Infrastructure (Physical)
Civil Works: 5 new RMTCs
The Construction Industry Training Center and the two new trade
testing centers were deleted. The construction design of all
centers was simplified. Four small new 'outreach' Provincial
Manpower Training Centers (PHTCa) were added. (Later in 1990 three
more PMTCa were added); Rehabilitation of buildings including the
Taguig NMYC Central Office, existing RMTC., REDOs and dormitories;
and the construction of new RUDOs and dormitories.
EouiDment and Furnitures
The lists were revised downward in line with the new training
priorities.
(b)  Training Technology DeveloDment
Institutionalized Trainers Develooment: a new emphasis was placed
on the trainer development program at all levels that led to the



-6-
establishment of a national trainers accreditation and license
scheme.
Skills Standardization and Certification: this item was expanded
and included the increase of existing trade testing and certification progr ams
as part of a new nationally recognized scheme; development of 266
standard/tests for priority occupations.
Curriculum Development: Standardization of course contents of
skills training programs in the RMTCs through the establishment of
a national framework for standards in curriculum, training
materials and training package development, production and
utilization.
Vocational Guidance: Development and institutionalization of an
NMYC Guidance System.
Information and Documentation System: Development of a data base
processing of information materials and data bank/library of print
and non-print information materials.
(c)  Special Training Programs
Training for Rural Entergrise Development/Youth EntreRreneurshiD
and Self-Employment (TREND/YESDEV): Later named Entrepreneurship
Development Training Program (EDTP), provision and development of
skills of would-be entrepreneurs to enable them to manage small
business or micro-enterprises effectively.
Community Training Centers (CTCs): Provision of relevant and
quality skills training programs that would address the training
needs of specific target groups in the communities in relation to
local opportunities.
Trainine Contract Scheme: expanding the number of workers to be
trained from 76,000 to 105,000;
Placement Assistance Center (PLACER): Establishment of a
integrated manpower information and placement services network in
strategic regional growth areas.
Enterprise Based Training System (EBTS): Establishment of an
alternative training scheme which would utilize a dual system type
of training approach involving in-center and in-company training.
Garments Industry Trainina Program (GITP): Provision of training
for at least 50Z annually of the skill requirements of the
industry.
Industry Specific Development Program (ISDP): Provision of a range
of training packages to a number of industry sectors deemed
critical to the nation's industrialization process. These sectors



- 7 -
included computer software, automotive, film industry, garments
gifts and housewares and ceramics.
(d) Evaluation
Development of a plan for a regular periodic evaluation of existing
training programs as part of the national training system.
4.   Proiect Design and Identification
4.1       The project was well designed overall.  Both private and sector
training agencies were involved as well as Government Planning bodies.
4.2       In 1979,  a Task Force Advisory Group was formed by NMYC to act as
a consultative body for project formulation. This body was composed of
recognized leaders from the private industrial sector and representative from
Government departments concerned. The body provided advice particularly on
the training requirements/components. A draft project proposal was prepared
by NMYC and a Pre-Appraisal Mission of UNESCO staff, visited Manila in October
1980, to revise and put the draft proposal into an appraisal report format and
involving the Government through NMYC actively in Project preparation work.
4.3       The Project was appraised on April 29-May 15, 1981.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, DC from April 1-8, 1982 and the loan agreement was
signed on October 28, 1982.
5.   Proiect Implementation
Overview
5.1       The Loan Agreement became effective on February 25, 1983.  However,
the NMYC as the executing agency, had already began to implement the project
on January 1, 1982 using funds from a realigned NMYC budget. An earlier
request from Government for retroactive financing from the Bank had not been
granted. In the event, Government funds proved problematic and the first
civil works,(RMTC Tuguegarao), started only in late 1985. Between 1982 and
1984 only about US$ 2.6 million had been disbursed due to inadequate
Government budget allocation and then delayed release of these funds. In
1985, although Government budgetary allocations were increased, only a small
proportion of funds was released. By 1987, when the project was restructured
only US$5 million had been disbursed (40% of appraisal estimates). The
procurement of equipment likewise experienced a slow start. The Loan
Agreement was amended and the Project was restructured in 1987. The total
loan amount was reduced by US$ 8 million and some of the components
restructured/modified to meet the prevailing conditions. The project closing
date was extended four times from December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1991.
Proiect Administration and Management (Annex B)
5.2       A Project Management Unit (PMU) was constituted in April, 1981,
composed of a Project Director who was also the Director General of NHYC, a
Deputy Project Director (full-time) and four Project Officers for the



-8-
different aspects of the Project programs, physical facilities, procurement
and financial management (Annex B). When the Project commenced in 1982, the
PMU was supported by 11 technical and 7 administrative staff. These, as the
project implementation required, were increased to 49 support staff (35
technical and 14 administrative) in 1988 and eventually reduced to 41 at the
time of closing. These were all full-time NHYC staff detailed to the Project
with tenures paralleling the Project. As an incentive, the PHU staff were
provided honoraria on top of their regular salaries under existing government
guidelines and as approved by the Department of Budget and Management. This
was in compliance with the Loan covenant providing for of incentives to assist
the retention of staff and which proved adequate to ensure staffing
continuity.
5.3       The PMU formed an integral part of the administrative structure of
NMYC. The PMU divided project activities into 20 separate components and
developed implementation schedules for each component. As well as a Project
Team created for each component, Regional Project Coordinating Units (RPCUs)
were created in the 14 Regional Offices headed by the Regional Directors to
implement the Project in the Regions. In effect, implementation did not rely
on the central core of staff, but commendably involved most of the Agency.
5.4       Throughout the implementation period, there were three Project
Directors, (NMYC Directors-General), though these changes naturally affected
implementation, the main cause of delay was inadequate government budget
allocation, government fund releases and cumbersome procurement procedures.
Additional serious causes of delay were the unavoidable result of Government
change after the EDSA revolution and the need for restructuring of the
project, and a series of natural disasters.
Civil Works
5.5       The design of buildings (RMTCs and PMTCs) was carried out by
private local architects under the supervision of NMYC. Construction
supervision was carried out by the same architects, hired under local
contracts. Suitable sites for constructions were acquired generally through
negotiation with the relevant local regional governments and were transferred
to NMYC through legally documented donation or usufruct. A Bids and Awards
Committee (BAC) was created to manage the bidding process and contract awards.
5.6       A substantial unexpected task which fell on the PHU in 1986 after
the revolution, was the restructuring of the project. The restructuring was
well executed.  The CITC and 2 Trade Testing Stations were canceled and
original designs of the RMTCs were simplified meaning smaller in size and
cheaper than the previous designs.  Part of the funds which were generated out
of these savings was channeled to a program of repair and maintenance of all
existing training centers and administration units which urgently needed
rehabilitation, as well as smaller strategic training centers all over the
country. (Annex A. Tables 1.1-1.6).
5.7       The PHU also had to contend with the consequences of national
disasters which compounded the Government's existing financial problems. These
included the massive earthquake and exceptionally severe typhoon which wrought
major damage to various parts of the country; the Gulf War oil price increases



in 1990 which dislocated the civil works timetable and resulted in further
slippages. In particular, the building activities in CAR - the hardest hit
region had to be severely modified. Owing to the uncertainties of the terrain
as a result of the earthquake, RMTC Baguio was deleted in favor of a smaller
structure to accommodate a Regional Office. The on-going construction of PMTC
Mountain Province, was halted due to impassable roads limiting the accessi-
bility and delivery of heavy equipment. Eventually, this building was resumed
by DPWH under a special agreement.
5.8       The funds previously allocated to RMTC Baguio were in 1990,
directed to more suitable sites within the 'CALABARZON' area where there has
been rapid industrialization.
5.9       Procurement suffered serious delays in the early stages of the
Project. From 1982-1985, only 3 ICBs were completed and the remainder would
not have been realized were it not that the closing date was extended twice -
procurement delay through cumbersome procedures being one of the primary
reasons for extensions.
ProRrams
5.10      Program groupings were identified to meet three major objectives of
the Project. They included (i) strengthening the management of industrial
training,to reorganize and strengthen the NMYC Secretariat and its capability
to improve manpower planning and evaluation with the establishment of a
management information system; (ii) the pilot implementation of Sector
Specific Training programs involved contracting industry to serve the needs of
workers in priority industries; (iii) the expansion of the skill testing and
certification program and the development and acquisition of additional
training standards.The programs were implemented by project teams of relevant
staff eg. Manpower Planning component was handled by the Planning Division of
NMYC. The latter two program categories were generally designed and executed
satisfactorily. Management and the manpower planning development program was
less than satisfactorily implemented.
Technical Assistance/Fellowships
5.11      A total of 13.5 man-years of foreign consultancies, 29 man-years of
foreign fellowships and 62 man-years of local consultancies were provided
under the project. The use of foreign fellowships and experts was limited.
The latter were mainly used for equipment specification and computerization.
5.12      Through the program, a total of 174 key NMYC personnel were sent on
foreign training fellowship and study tours/missions to the United States/
Canada and Europe, particularly UK, France, Austria and Italy.   These
programs had a maximum of 3 months duration and the fellows were required to
render at least 3 years services to the Agency before they could be allowed to
leave NMYC service. Better use could have been made of experts and foreign
fellowships by using more for strengthening the management of NMYC and
developing manpower planning. Most expert and fellowship man-years were used
to up-grade the technical and professional proficiency of staff which was
undoubtedly beneficial in improving the quality of training and services.



- 10 -
Cost and Disbursements
5.13      The original loan was for US$ 24.4 million.  However, this was
reduced to US$ 16.4 million when the Project was restructured in 1986 after
the priorities of the newly installed Government were established. Table 1.0
(below) shows the original and restructured project costs including the loan
and Government counterpart amounts. Estimated and Actual disbursements are
shown in Table 3.3.
Table 1.0: PROJECT COST
ORIGINAL PROJECT COST                        RESTRUCTURED PROJECT COST
(in US $)                                       (in US $)
TOTAL            41.66                                     26.87
LOAN             24.36 : 60%                               16.36  : 60%
GOVERNMENT
COUNTERPART      17.30 : 40%                               10.51  : 401
5.14      From the original amount, a total of US $ 5.915 million or P93.862
million was spent for all the six expense categories from 1982 to 1987 at the
time of restructuring. For the first two years (1982-1983) expenditures were
made only in Category II (Equipment), Category III (Technical Assistance) and
Category IV (Programs). In the third and fourth years (1984-1985). expendi-
tures started in all the six expense categories.
5.15      The Project was in full progress when the new Government took over
in 1986 and new priorities were set that resulted in its restructuring. The
completion date was revised to December 1988 and later through a series of
annual extensions to December 1990 although a grace period for the closing of
the books was extended to July 2, 1991. Equipment procurement was still being
completed at closing time.
6.   Maior Results of the Proiect
Proiect Obiectives
An Overall Perspective on Proiect Outcomes
6.1       Overall, the project was a success.  It heightened the public
profile of NMYC and thus assured its retention as a national organization with
potential as a forum for policy making and planning, for bringing together
employees and training agencies, for ascertaining labor market needs and
ensuring that training was available and to provide adequate numbers of
skilled workers to meet these needs and, for monitoring and evaluating



- 11 -
training quality. The project achieved these goals, even more commendably,
through times characterized by changes of NMYC management, severe economic
constraints, major political dislocations and a series of natural disasters.
It is clear, however, that though project design included a notable emphasis
on key basic institutional developments including strengthening NMYC's (a)
internal management; (b) capability to manage the national training subsector,
and (c) ability to undertake manpower planning functions, these, in the event,
were not given their deserved attention. Other important, but arguably less
critical items, such as training program expansion undertaken directly by NMYC
dominated project implementation. This issue is explored further below.
7.   Manaaement of Industrial Training
7.1       The project objective aimed to help improve NMYCs capacity to plan,
coordinate and direct the development of industrial manpower at the national
level and to assist NMYC reorganize its management system and strengthen its
Secretariat was the least successful aspect of the project. However, some
progress was made. The organization and management systems were evaluated to
determine communication weaknesses and overlapping of functions and a new
structure was formulated though little practical progress was made until
towards the closing of the project. During implementation, management as a
specialized function was neither recognized nor given any priority. A greater
emphasis was placed on more and improved physical facilities and training
expansion, important in themselves, but exposed to inefficiencies when not
backed by good management. The Appraisal Report mixes management and manpower
planning conceptually. Manpower planning was used as a synonym for
management, rather than one of the functions of management, with the result
that while some manpower planning training was undertaken, there was no
management training per se. However, this important weakness is now being
corrected. Following a World Bank Subsector Review of Vocational Training
(1989) and when the new vocational training project was being prepared, fresh
initiatives were taken by NMYC to separate NMYC management functions from its
manpower planning functions and to recast NMYC secretariat organization to
reflect the different 'line' and 'staff' functions. A new element has been
introduced into the new project to strengthen these functions further.
7.2       The third aspect of the Management objective:  to establish a
Management information system, was more successful. The monitoring of
information has been broadened with the introduction of electronic processing
of data. The Project funded the procurement of 183 micro-computers and almost
an equal number of printers distributed over the Central and Regional Offices.
The data processing service of the Agency was rationalized and the information
storage and retrieval capacity strengthened.
Strengthening Industrial Trainina
7.3       A major success of the project was the Training Contract Scheme.
This aimed at improving the quality of the workforce in key industries and the
relevance of training by linking programs directly to industry. TCS was an
innovative training cost-sharing initiative with industry. Industries were
encouraged to train their own workers and the government through the Project,
reimbursed an average 70% of the direct training costs incurred. The TCS
included programs for (i) basic skills; (ii) skills upgrading; (iii)



- 12 -
supervisory; (iv) trainers training; (v) and technical programs. From 1982 to
1990, a total of 125,666 workers in the main training programs at all levels
were trained. This exceeded the overall target of 103,000 for priority
subsectors; metals and engineering, automotive, wood products, textiles,
footwear and leathergoods, printing, constructions, land transportation,
power, electricity, water and gas, agro-industries, coal mining, communi-
cations, and hotel and restaurant. (Annex A, para 4.11).
7.4       To serve as a basis for implementation of the TCS annual training
action plans, four-year sectoral training plans were, prepared--in con-
sultation with representatives of the respective industrial organizations
which took into account the skilled manpower requirements of the industrial
development strategy. Until 1986, annual planning submissions were made to
the Bank but were discontinued after 1986 because of changes and instability
of the industrial environment rendering long-term planning difficult.
Priority was given to the garments industry as the second highest export
industry. The Garments Industry Training Program was established in 1988
managed by NMYC and assisted by an Advisory Board composed of private sector
and government representatives. Since its implementation, over 11,000
workers, and nearly 300 industry trainers have been trained.
7.5       Training expansion was sustained under the project.  Training
facilities were expanded to complete and complement the existing network of
training centers and increasing the range of courses available. This included
the construction, furnishing and equipping of five new RMTCs, PMTCs, and the
rural mobile training centers made possible through the CTCs to reach areas
that RMTCs were unable to serve. (Annex A, paras 1.1 and 3.2).
Trade Testing and Certification
7.6       This objective which has a major VET quality improvement focus, was
successfully achieved and project targets were surpassed. The original target
of 42 additional occupations was increased to 200 in 1987 and further raised
to 266 by the end of the Project. In 1989, a total of 200 skills standards
were developed, 51 of them developed in-house while the rest were contracted
out to private entitles. Guidelines for Accreditation of Trade Testing
Centers and Trade Testing Officers was developed. The original target of
91,400 workers to be tested, was surpassed and about 193,000 workers were
tested. Five titles were translated into 3 local dialects. (Annex A, para
2.2).
8. Proiect Sustainabilitv
8.1       Strong Government commitment to improvements achieved under the
project and the high priority given to the follow-up project currently being
negotiated, indicate that benefits achieved under the project will be
sustained in the future. There is now a more widespread, deeper understanding
of the issues in developing skills training nationally and locally, and of the
relationship between public and private sector roles. There is strong
Government commitment to NMYC and understanding of its role as the key policy
making and planning body for VET. Management and manpower planning issues are
still serious, but awareness has deepened and their dimensions better under-
stood. Both have assured high profiles and are being addressed in the



- 13 -
project's follow-up. Flexibility in approaching training and enhancing rele-
vancy of training and quality to meet labor market needs together with eval-
uation of training are deeply embedded. It is noteworthy that, though from a
strict efficiency viewpoint, the extra five years taken to complete the
project was undesirable, there is little doubt that the joint efforts of NMYC,
other core Government Ministry staff and Bank staff over nearly a decade has
assisted the sustainability of the main achievements of the project.
9.   Bank Performance
9.1       Bank staff contributed to the success of the Project through
supportive working relationships and professional advice. The Bank maintained
a professional relationship with the PHU showing understanding in implementing
the Project in often difficult socio-economic circumstances. It responded
reasonably to Project modifications especially after the EDSA revolution in
1986.   Bank supervision missions were fielded at regular, appropriate
intervals and were adequately staffed to ensure the success of components
meeting two of the three broad goals of the project: strengthening industrial
training and trade testing and certification. However, the third goal built
into project components for improving management and manpower planning was
less well supervised and the results of efforts to improve the management and
planning of training were less successful. This was partly due to (i) poor
project preparation, of this item including a lack of clarity in defining what
precisely was to be improved at the time of appraisal; (ii) a seeming lack of
priority of attention accorded this objective by the NMYC, compounded by the
Bank, compared to the other objectives which had large hardware components;
(iii) an apparent lack of monitoring of actions relating to this objective on
the part of the Bank staff during supervision and of appropriately qualified
staff on supervision missions, and (iv) a loss of NMYC senior staffing and
organizational dislocation at the time of, and following, the 1986 EDSA
revolution when significant numbers of the few senior managers and pro-
fessional planning technicians left NMYC. The recently appointed new manage-
ment of NMYC in discussion with the Bank staff has recognized the high
priority of addressing the issue of sectoral institutional management ability
and - quite separately - the need for proper planning as mandated to NMYC by
the Legislative Act and the Labor Code - NMYC has taken steps to correct such
institutional deficiencies through an on-going process and the follow-on Bank
project.
LESSONS LEARNED
9.2       The Bank should pay attention to the staffing of supervision
missions and ensure that appropriate skills are included. Good management of
the institutions included in the project is a critical input to the success of
the project and it must not be assumed that specialist educators can prepare,
appraise or supervise this professional area. In this particular case, the
improvement of managerial capability and manpower planning were the projected
objectives least successfully met. It might be considered that the TA
included in the project to assist meeting these objectives did not have the
complete commitment of NMYC and was a reason for the weakness of project
performance in these areas. Field discussions however do not support this
conclusion, preoccupation with physical aspects of the project certainly
dominated NMYC attention, but timely reminders and Bank support during start-



- 14 -
up and after, and particularly during the project restructuring could have
kept actions to fulfill these objectives on a stronger track. Other lessons
learned included the need to identify and acquire sites early in the project
cycle, and preferably before loan signing. The same is true for the prep-
aration of equipment lists and bidding documents. Finally, there is a
positive lesson to be learned that emerges from the Bank's flexible approach
that led to a sensible redesigned project after its reformulation in 1987 as a
result of the Bank's understanding of the local politico-economic situation
10. Borrower Performance
Malor StrenRths and Weaknesses
10.1      Except for delay in the early phase of civil works tendering and
contracting and in procurement (resulting in four extensions of the project
Closing Date), the overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory.
Minor implementation setbacks can be traced to a series of management and
staff changes in the PMU with three Project Directors in the last 4 years and
'new broom' staffing reorganizations. In addition, there were teething
problems in the PMU such as the time taken to work out financial processes
especially in withdrawal applications, opening of letters of credit, and the
utilization of the Special Account.
10.2      However, it should be noted that factors outside the control of
NMYC and the PMU were main contributors to the delays in implementation.
Throughout the life of the Project, Government counterpart funding was a
continuous issue and overly bureaucratic procedures, particularly in the early
years, hindered the speedy disposition of clearance and issuing of procurement
permits. Despite these, Project implementation in general was carried out
well. The creation of the PFC-CODA to monitor all foreign-assisted projects
tremendously helped Project implementation.
LESSONS LEARNED
10.3      A key lesson is that the determination of detailed equipment lists
need to be well advanced before loan signing. Even though preliminary
equipment lists are available, equipment specifications and packaging may well
require additional preparation. It is easy to under-estimate the additional
technical work and time required to finalize lists and bidding documents and
cause serious delays in procurement.
11. Proiect Relationship
11.1      The success of the Project, especially when set in the context of
the unexpected problems (para. 3.5) and political conditions was the result of
the amiable and effective working relationship between the Bank and the NMYC,
and between the various participating agencies including NEDA, DECS and the
Council members. The high level of staffing professionalism was exemplary.



- 15 -
12.  Consulting Services
12.1      The success of the Project, particularly the training program
components could not have been attained without the quality of consultant
inputs that were received during the Project. About 801 of consultant
services/expertise were locally acquired and mostly tapped from the private
sector. From the point of view of the Borrower, this move was very beneficial
since local experts can provide the necessary services attuned to local
conditions and may improve their capabilities which remain in the country at
the service of the Borrower.
13. Prolect Documentation and Data
13.1      The original documentation for the Project was adequate.  A number
of working papers, necessary for expeditious Project implementation could have
been bound separately as an implementation tool and provide a systematic
record as an institutional memory, useful when Project staff changed.
Although project documents were usually available, retrieval was time
consuming. During the last year of implementation, PMU decided to classify
all documents, communications and other pertinent papers which assisted the
project. The registering and locating of an accumulation of 9 years of
documents could have been facilitated if computerization had been introduced
earlier.



- 16 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORR(WUIR'S PERSPECTIVE
(by NMYC)
A.  ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF FACTUAL INFOMTIOC IN PART II
2.1       The factual data presented in Part III are both accurate and
adequate for the purpose intended and were thoroughly discussed in the field
with Bank Missions. The data are fairly represented and should provide the
reader with some insight into the strengths and weaknesses of project
implementation.
B.   EVALU&TION OF BANK'S PERFOR^MCE
2.2       Bank personnel were recognized as professional in all respects.  In
particular, they have been appreciative of the complexities of the conditions
prevailing in the country that had a bearing on the overall implementation of
the Project. For instance, in 1987, during the project's restructuring, the
Bank showed an objective understanding of the political and economic condition
of the country. This was also true for necessary Project extensions after
1986. Supervision missions were particularly useful in rendering timely
advice and assistance on project issues, especially in project accounting and
disbursements. Communication between the Bank and the Borrower posed no
problems. Missions appeared ready with the necessary authority, to make
decisions and give advice while in the country. This greatly facilitated
expeditious implementation.
2.3       The Bank's supervision missions provided substantial assistance to
the Project. However, they were more concerned with specific problems that
needed to be addressed in the short term. The Borrower feels that the Bank
missions unconsciously or due to time limitations, did not view the Project
in its entirety vis-a-vis its objectives particularly in management and
manpower policy issues that affected industrial training in the longer term.
This was particularly evident in components such as management, manpower
planning, training evaluation and the establishment of a comprehensive
information system. These, reflecting the lack of supervision mission member
interests and skills, were given inadequate attention. On the other hand,
items such as physical infrastructure and the more visible components like the
Training Contract Scheme benefitted. Perhaps, this imbalance may be
attributed to the absence of management experts and broad-based staff such as
economists, for instance, who could review the project as a whole and its
impact even beyond Project completion.
C.  EVALUATION OF BORROWER'$S OW  PERORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.4       The Project overall, has greatly contributed to building up the
NMYC's lead role in the area of skills development with its network of
training centers and industrial sector specific training components of the
Project. Such prominence places the NMYC in the best position to assume
management of the skills development sector with improved efficiency and
effectiveness.



- 17 -
2.5       The performance of the participating institutions (NMYC, DECS,
NEDA, DOLE) in Project planning and implementation was satisfactory and
compares well with other foreign-assisted projects in the country beset by the
numerous problems resulting from the political and socio-economic conditions
over the period.
2.6       The implementation of specialist assistance and fellowship
programs, mostly concerning trainers development and in curriculum upgrading,
were carried out with little or no problem. The Training Contract Scheme was
successfully launched with very favorable results.
2.7       Civil works and equipment procurement, especially during the first
four years of the Project, encountered problems disrupting timetables.
However, implementation through to completion was realized during the second
half of the Project life at a more rapid pace even though extension of project
implementation time was necessary.
2.8       The basic problem during implementation was the scarcity of
Government funds common to all foreign-assisted projects in the country
resulting in implementation delays and slow disbursements. Internal fiscal
procedural controls have now been established to help speed up disbursements.
With the creation of the PFC-CODA, these problems can be more closely
monitored. Procedures were also streamlined at the Central Bank and in other
government agencies. The experience and training of the PMU staff could still
be further upgraded to ensure continuity during changes in administration and
personnel turnovers.
2.9       The borrower failed to call the attention of Bank missions to the
need to review components of the Project that were being inadequately attended
to e.g.,manpower planning development and the policies development for the
national and local management of industrial training. Without necessarily
offering any excuses, the borrower had its full attention focussed on key
administrative requirements of the Project and completion of civil works and
equipment procurement which were all time-based.
2.10      Another basic lesson learned involved the management of the
Project.  Having had three Project Directors and a constant turnover of
Project Staff, the fluidity of PHU operations was affected. Future Project
design should ptovide for continuity of Project Management Staff. As far as
possible, staff should be involved until completion.
2.11      Finally, an important lesson has been gleaned by NMYC from its
experience in implementing civil works particularly in ensuring site
acquisition before beginning the project. Another lesson is the need for
early development of equipment specifications, essential for expeditious
procurement.






- 19 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INQORMATION
Tab.leIL: 3s   L&ATgD IBID LOANS/IDA CRRDITS
Loan/Credft Number                                                  Yer of Aooroval
Project Tlh                           Purpose                      status
Crdit 349-PH                                                       1972
Second Education    Improve agricultural and Industrial educaon and training by supportng two  Complbd and
Project         rgional agricultural college. 13 agricultural high schoold. 10 regiona  cled In December
manpower training anters, three teohnal Inatitute, and the training of    1978
exenion personnel
Credit 2392-PH
Second Vocational   Improve employment and manpower development polkohe, s_gren  1992
Training ProJect  NMYC and w;pnd non-ormal traning through, Inter *lla enhanoenwt of  Credit signed July
private sectoer traIning capacity  3, 192
Table 32: PROJECT TIMETABLE
--------------      Dates    ----------
Activity                        Planned      Revised              Actual
Reconnaissance Mission a/                                               10/77
Project Identification                                                  12/78
Project Brief Preparation                                                9/79
Initiating Project Brief                                                 3/80
Preparation
Mission 1                                                          3/80
UNESCO Mission /               9/80          10/80                10-11/80
Mission II                                                        8/80
Mission III                                                       2/81
Pro-Appraisal/
Appraisal Mission                    12/80         11/80                4-5/81
Post-Appraisal Mission               5/81          8/81                 8/81
Loan Negotiations                    8/81          11-12/81, 4/82       4/82
Board Approval                       11/81         3/82, 6/82            9/82
Loan Signature                                                          10/82
Loan Effectiveness                   2/83                                2/83 Q/
Loan Closing A/                      12/87         12/88.12/89,12/90   12/90
A/   Mission  undertaken  within  the  framework  of  the  UNESCO/World  Bank
Cooperative Programme.
I   A UNESCO mission revised and put into an appraisal type report the
preparation document drafted by NMYC.
Al   Project activities started in January 1982 and were funded from a realigned
budget of the Borrower.
4/   In 1986, when a new government was established, the loan was restructured
to address conditions and priorities prevailing at that time and the
closing date was extended to December 1988. Further annual extensions to
December 1990 were granted to enable the Borrower to completa all civil
works and equipment deliveries.  Final disbursement was issued in July
1991.



- 20 -
Table 3.3: CUMUL&TIVE ESTINATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million Equivalent)
Actual as
Appraisal                                  x of
IBRD              Estimates                               Appraisal
FY   Semester           August 1982          Actual a/            Estimates
1983 1st                   0.4
2nd                   0.7                 0.6                 86
1984 1st                   1.2                 2.7                225
2nd                   2.2                 3.0                136
1985 1st                   4.2                 3.4                 81
2nd                   6.2                 3.8                 61
1986 1st                   9.2                 4.1                 44
2nd                   13.2                5.0                 38
1987 1st                   19.2                5.2                 27
2nd                   24.4                5.6                 23
1988 1st                                       5.6                 23
2nd                                       7.0                 29
1989 1st                                       7.1                 30
2nd                                       9.2                 38
1990 1st                                      10.2                 42
2nd                                      12.0                 49
1991 let                                      12.8                 52
2nd                                      14.9b/               61
1992 1st                                      14.9c/               61
a/   In 1987, at the request of the Borrower, a cumulative amount of US$ 8.0
million equivalent was cancelled and the loan amount was reduced to US$
16.4 million equivalent.   In July 1991 an additional amount of US$ 1.5
million was cancelled due to cost savings.
k/   US$ 14,905,346.10 includes overdraft of US$ 33,568.47.
./  Final cumulative disbursements after refund US$ 14,871.777.63 equivalent.



.*@ .S . . ..  .          .....                                    --- - --
~~~~ -                                                   0 40
* . . .   .                ,                .                             . .   ..a
es @| Pe rol X*; X -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. . ..... .. .. .. . ..    .X . . . . ... . .. .
o                  ., ,                                                                  ,    ,  . ,n. ., . . .   '
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6                                                           .  . ....                 - _ . . .
,   ;       ,         .. j                        - -,      -      -      - -- . 
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                   .........        . ..      .                 --                                  
9-4                                                                                                                   . .  .   . .  . .    .         - -
C14~P                                                                           . .    .  .   .    .    .    .    .   . ..    .          .  . .    . .    .  .
o~~~ o                                                                                                    o             o    
. . . . .   .     .        .. . .  .    .    .      .  . .    - -    -  -     -
-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 0t                                                                                                                . 
H~~~~                                                                                   X    o                                                                   -i  o*>
.    .              .                    L          _. 
H              .0                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. . .  ...- P.....
1%                             .             .             .            4                                   -      -~~~... .. ..
4                                                                           4             *            *~~~~~~~~~~.. . .. .   . -n -i 
co                                                                                                                C4 1*  4  4  I
.          . .    . .  .   .  . .    . .    . ..   . .  . -



- 22 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT IDPLEMKNT&TION - PLAMUD AND ACTUAL DATES
OF CCMPOUKUTS (Civil Works and Equipment)
PROJECT COMPONENT                PLANNED COMPLETION            ACTUAL COMPLETION             MOTHS OF
DELAY
CIVIL WORKS
1. NEW RMTCs
1.  Tuguegarao                         October 1986                  Novemrber 28, 1986                1
2.  Tacloban                           October 1988                   January 30, 1989                 3
3.  Cagayan de Oro                      February 1988                 March 28, 1988                   1
4.  Zamboanga                           November 25, 1988             ApriL 4, 1991
11. REGIONAL REHAB
1. La Union
Phase I                          December 1987                 December 1987
Phase 11                         September 1989                Noveffber 1989                    2
2. Batangas
Phase I                          November 1987                 Novenber 1987
CO #1                            ApriL 1988                    JuLy 15, 1988                     3
Phase 11                         November 1988                 November 8, 1988                  -
3. Guiguinto
Phase I                          December 1987                 Decefber 10, 1987
Phase 11                         October 1988                  November 20, 1988              15 Days
Phase III                        April 1989                    March 1989                      (+) 1
4. Mariveles
Phase I                          February 1988                 March 1988                        1
Phase 11                         May 1989                      Jure 1989                         1
5. Pili
Phase I                          February 1989                 March 1989                        1
Phase 11                         September 1989                March 1990                        6
6. Talisay
Phase I                          February 1988                 Jure 20, 1988                     4
Phase 11                         April 1989                    February 1989                   (+) 2
7.  ILoilo
Phase I                          March 1988                    April 1988                        1
Phase 11                         April 1989                    February 1989                   (+) 2
S. Cebu
Phase I                          March 1988                    March 1988
Phase 11                         April 1989                    February 1989                   (+) 2
9. Cotabato
Phase I                          may 1988                      Jure 1988                         1
Phase 11                         April 1989                    April 1989                        -
10. Davao
Phase I                          June 1988                     JuLy 1988                         1
Phase 11                         April 1989                    May 1989                          1
11. Iligan
Phase I                          Jurw  1988                    July 1988                         1
Phase 11                         Septenber 1989                December 1989                    3
Phase III                                                      February 1991
Water System                     December 1990                 February 1991                     2
12. Tuguegarao                         October 1989                  October 8, 1989                   -



- 23 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT IMPLEMNTATION - PLANNED AND ACTaAL DATES
OF COMPONENTS (Civil Works and Equipment)  Contin.
PROJECT COMPONENT                PLANNED COMPLETION            ACTUAL COMPLETION             MONTHS OF
DELAY
111. NEW DORMITORY
1.  La Unfon                           May 1988                      September 1988                    4
2.  Batangas                           July 1988                     August 1988                       1
3.  Pili                               April 1988                     JuLy 1988                        3
4.  lLoito                             March 1988                     May 1988                         2
5.  Cebu                                February 1988                May 1988                          3
6.  Davao                              March 1988                     September 1988                   6
7.  Cotabato                                                          February 1991
IV. NEW PMTCs
1.  Abra                               ApriL 1990                    May 1990                          1
2.  Ifugao                             April 1990                    December 1990                     8
3.  Kalinga-Apayao                     April 1990                     July 1990                        3
4.  Mt. Province                       April 1990                     10X completed
V. NEW RMDO
1.  San Fernando,                      December 1989                 January 8, 1990                15 Days
Paipanga
2.  Cotabato                           October 1989                   January 1990                     3
3.  Cagayan de Oro                     November 1989                  January 29, 1990                 2
4.  Davao                              October 1990                   December 1990
5.  Baguio City                                                      December 1990
VI. TAGUIG REHAB
1.  Training Room                      May 1987                      May 25, 1987                      -
2.  Perimeter Fence                     July 1987                     February 1988                    7
3.  Water Proofing                      January 1988                  February 15, 1988             15 Days
4.  Adnin Building
(1st & 7th)                      February 1990                 February 1990
5.  Admin Building
(2nd to 6th)                     December 1989                 December 1989
6.  NSTC Complex                       December 1989                  December 1989                    -
7.  NSTC Canteen Rehab                 March 1988                    May 1988                          2
8.  NMYC Dormitory                     March 1988                     May 15, 1988                     2
9.  Elevators                          August 1989                    April 16, 1989               (+) 4
10. ACU System                         January 1990                   January 1990                     -
11. Water Proofing                     January 1990                   January 1990                     -
12. Powerhouse                         March 1990                    December 1990                     9
13. Auditoriumn ACU                                                  May 9, 1989



- 24 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES
OF COM5PONENTS (Civil Works and Equipeant) Contin.
PROJECT COMPONENT                PLANNED COMPLETION            ACTUAL COMPLETION             OMTHS OF
DELAY
EQUIPMENT
I. LOCAL PROCUREMENT
1.  LCB 3 (Micro                       January 1988                  August 1988                       7
Conputer System)
2.  LCB 4 (TooLs &                     October 1988                   February 1988                    4
Equipment for
Cagayan de Oro,
Tacloban, Zamboanga)
3.  LCB 5 (Elevators)                   December 1988                 September 1988               (*) 3
4.  LCB 6 (Auditorium, GITP             October 1988                  November 1988                    1
Council Room, NSTC Function
Room & Computer Room ACUs)
5.  LCB 7 (Furniture for RMTC           June 1989                     September 1989                   3
Cagayan de Oro, Tacloban
and Zamboanga)
6.  LCB 8 (NSTC Water Pump/             March 1988                    August 1988                      5
Iligan Water System)
7.  LCB 11 & 12 (Vehicles &            December 1989                  June 1990                        5
Mobile Equipment)
8.  LCB 13 (Transformers for           March 1989                     July 1989                        4
Tacloban & Zamboanga)
9.  LCB 14 (Admin Bldg. Aircon)        October 1989                   January 1990                     3
10.  LCB 15 (Computers Phase 11)        August 1988                   October 1988                      2
11.  LCB 16 (Supply & Delivery                                         July 1989                        2
of Various Office Eqpt./
Various Engine for               June 1990                     December 1990                     6
RMTCs and NSTC)
12.  LCB 17 (Rehab of Standby           September 1990                 March 1991                       6
Generator)
13.  LCB 18 (Rehab of Auditoriun        September 1990                March 1991                        6
Lighting)
14.  LCB 19 (Various Tools/Eqpt.        September 1990                 September 1990                   -
for CAR PMTC/RMTC, NSTC)
15. LCB 20 (Furniture for CAR
PMTCs and RMTC CAR)
16.  LCB 21 (Various Spare Parts)       December 1990                 April 1991                        4
17.  LCB 24 (Communication Eqpt.)       January 1991                  March 1991                        2
18. LCB 25 (Office Furniture,
Rugs, & BLinds)
19.  LCB 26 (Rehab of NMYC              May 1990                       June 1990                        1
Ackin. Water Pump)
20.  LCB 27 (Various Training           March 1991                     April 1991                       1
Equipment)
21.  LCD 28 (Emergency Lighting         April 1990                     May 1990                         1
System for NMYC Acdin.
BuiLding)
22.  LCB 29 (Vehicles                    JuLy 1990                     September 1990                   2
Fiber Glass Body)
23.  LCB 30 (Airconditioning             July 1990                     July 1990
Units)
24.  LCB 31 (Office and                 December 1990                  March 1991                       3
Sports Equipment)



- 25 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES
OF COMPONENTS (Civil Works and Equipment) Contin.
PROJECT COMPONENT                 PLANNED COMPLETION            ACTUAL COMPLETION             MONTHS OF
DELAY
II. INTERNATIONAL PROCUREMENT
1.  ICB 2 & 3 (TooLs & Eqpt.            March 1987                    August 1987                       5
for Trade Workshop
Course)
2.  ICB 4-A (Toots & Eqpt.              August 1988                    December 1988                     4
for RMTC Tuguegarao)
3.  ICB 4-B                             CANCELLED
4.  ICB 4-C (Audio-Visual Eqpt.)                                       June 1988
5.  ICB 5 (Tools & Eqpt. for            September 1988                 October 1988                      1
RMTCs Cagayan de Oro,
Tacloban & Zamboanga)
6.  ICB 6-A & B ( Tools & Eqpt.         February 1990                  February 1990                     -
for NSTC & Existing
RMTCs)
7.  ICB 7 (Trade Testing Eqpt.)         December 1989                  February 1990                     2
8.  ICB 8 (TooLs & Eqpt. for            October 1990                   October 1990                      -
CTCs & CAR)
9.  ICS 9-A (Audio Visual               October 1990                   December 1990                     2
Equipment)
10.  ICB 9-B (Computers)                 October 1990                   November 1990                     1
11.  ICB 9-C (Printing Eqpt.)            October 1990                   November 1990                     1
12.  ICB 10-A (Various Training          November 1990                  ApriL 1991                        5
Equipment)
13.  ICB 10-B (Compact MobiLe            November 1990                  March 1991                        4
Unit)
PACKAGE I & III (Tools & Ecpt.           April 1991                     ApriL 1991
for New PMTCs, & TooLs/Eqpt.
for Unawarded ICBs for RMTCs)
PACKAGE II (Toots & Eqpt.                December 1990                  Decemebr 1990
Furnitures for Hotel &
Restaurant Specialized
Center)
INC 1  SuppLy of Various Sewing          May 1988                       May 1988
Machine "Juki"
INC 2  Various Juki Equipment            August 1989                   August 1989
for GITP
INC 3  Various Spare Parts for           ApriL 1990                    ApriL 1990
Juki Sewing Machine



- 26 -
Table 3.5: PROJECT COSTS
(USs million)
Category                Appraisal Estimates                Revised !/                     Final a/
(August 1982)                (October 1987)                 (July 1991)
Local Foreign Total           Local Foreign Total          Local Foreign  Total
Civil Works &                  4.1   2.0       6.1            2.4   1.0      3.4           3.2  1.6         4.8
Professional Services
Furniture, Equipment           0.2   8.7       8.9            0.5   7.6      8.1           0.5  6.5         7.0
and Materials
Technical Assistance           0.7   1.5       2.2            0.8   1.6      2.4           0.6  1.4         2.0
(foreign and local)
Expenditures under            10.1   0.0    10.1             11.1   0.0    11.1            9.2  0.0         9.2
Part B.1, including
tuition, stipends and
staff allowances
Contingencies                  9.1   4.9    14.0
Unallocated                                                   0.7   0.8      1.5
Front Fee                      0.0   0.4       0.4            0.0   0.4      0.4           0.0  0.4         0.4
TOTAL                         24.2  17.5    41.7             15.5  11.4    26.9           14.2  9.9       23.1
I/  Physical and price contingencies are included.
Table 3.6: PROJECT FIKANCING
(USS million)
Category                Planned at Appraisal                Revised                       Final
(August 1982)                (October 1987)                 (July 1991)
GOP  IBRD   Total             GOP   IBRD   Total          GOP   IBRD   Total
Civil Works &                  4.5   3.0    7.5               2.5   0.9      3.4           2.7   1.8    4.5
Professional Services
Furniture. Equipment           1.5   9.6   11.1               1.1   7.0      8.1           0.9   6.1    7.0
and Materials
Technical Assistance           0.0   2.9    2.9              0.0   2.4       2.4           0.0   2.0    2.0
(foreign and local)
Expenditures under             6.5   6.5   13.0               6.2   4.9    11.1            4.6   4.6    9.2
Part B.1, including
tuition, stipends and
staff allowances
Unallocated                    4.8   2.0    6.8               0.7   0.8      1.5
Front End Fee                  0.0   0.4    0.4              0.0   0.4       0.4           0.0   0.4    0.4
TOTAL                         17.3  24.4   41.7              10.5  16.4    26.9            8.2  14.9   23.1
1/                           !
j/    In 1987, a cumulative amount of US$ 8.0 million equivalent vas cancelled at the request of the Borrower.
/    In July 1991, an additional amount of US$ 1.5 million equivalent was cancelled due to cost savings.



- 27 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
ESTIMATED AT:
INDICATORS
APPRAISAL/       CLOSING DATE
RESTRUCTURING
No. of Workers trained under the Training             76,150              125,666
Contract Scheme
No. of Apprentices/out-of-school youth                25,000               23,629
trained (basic) under the Training
Contract Scheme
No. of adult workers trained (upgrading)              28,000               42,135
under the Training Contract Scheme
No. of supervisors/foremen/trainors                   23,150               51,669
traired including technicians trained
under the Training Contract Scheme
No. of trade instructors (NMYC) trained/                  106                 129
upgraded
No. of training modules/learning elements                 448                 800
developed
No. of trade skills standards deveLoped                    42                 200
No. of workers tested                                 91,400              209,022
No. of workers certified                              91,400               96,203
No. of trainees provided placement                    49,399               42,888
services
No. of trairwes (zero skills)/trainers                15,260/              11,101/
trained in GITP                                        338                  294
No. of persons trained/enterprises                      4,300/              3,187
participated in EDTP                                     660                455
No. of persons trained in the CTCs                                         27,820
No. of trainees reoriented in value                     140,000           167,337
development (Vocational Guidance)
No. of trainers (NMYC) trained                                                412



- 28 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (Contin.)
B. PROJECT STUDIES/PAPERS/HANDBOOKS/PUBLICATIONS
SUBJECT/TITLE           PURPOSE AS DEFINED
AT APPRAISAL         STATUS        IMPACT OF STUDY
Concept for Manpower   Assess developments    Completed   Served as basis in
Training in the Hotel  in the industry and                    the development of
& Restaurant Industry  define quantitative                    the sectoral train-
in the Philippines.    and qualitative                        ing plan for the
manpower needs of                    Hotel and Restaurant
the Sector.                          Industry.
This is NMYC.           NMYC Corporate Hand-   Completed   Reference for event-
book and agency                      ual reorganization
Corporate philosophy/                of the Secretariat.
plan.
Project Management      Provide General          Completed   Served as basis for
Accounting and          Guidelines for Pro-                   Project accounting
Monitoring Manual for  ject Management                        and monitoring.
NMYC-UB Vocational      acceptable to both
Training Project        NMYC and the Bank.
Volume 1-3.
Model Trade Standard   Serve as model for        CompLeted   Generally utilized
with Training Recomn-   the development of                    with modifications.
mendation, Trainers    trade standards.
Guide and Trade Tests.
Master Plan on          Serve as Master          Completed   AppLications under-
Manpower Planning;      Plan for the imple-         3/84      going further
Technical Papers,       mentation of the                      studies.
Data Base and           manpower planning
Simulation Model.       component.
Training Contract       Evaluation of TCS in   Completed   Served as guidelines
Scheme Evaluation       terms of procedures         3/84      for policy decisions
Report with Opera-      and administration.
tional Manual for
Field Evaluation,
Manual for review and
processing of train-
ing proposals, and
handbook.
Impact Evaluation       Assess the level of    Coirpleted   Under-going review/
Study of the Training  achievement and impact    7/90         validation.
Contract Scheme.        to productivity.
Preventive Mainte-      Serve as guide for       Completed   Undergoing up-
nance Reference         maintenance opera-          7/83      dating/review.
Manual.                 tions equipment and
facilities.
MIS and Computeriza-   Introduction of a         Completed   Undergoing up-
tion Program.           Data Base System for        7/87      dating/review.
NMYC.
Documentation of        Document proceedings/  Completed   Circulation
Proceedings of          outputs of workshop        12/90      acceptable.
National Supervisory   to serve as reference/
Development Workshop   training guide for TCS
programs.



- 29 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (Contin.)
B. PROJECT STUDIES/PAPERS/HANDBOOKS/PUBLICATIONS
SUBJECT/TITLE              PURPOSE AS DEFINED
AT APPRAISAL           STATUS         IMPACT OF STUDY
Profile of NMYC           Present aspects of        Conploted   For reference/policy
Training Center.          internal operations,          1987      decision.
course content and
quality teaching
method, etc.
Skillstech Journal        Quarterly publica-    4 quarterly  Circulation accept-
tion on HRD issues.   issues            able.
published
1985
HRD Yearbook              Yearbook on HRD               1985      Circulation accept-
issues.                                able.



- 30 -
Table 3.8:  COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
SECTION/COVENANT                    STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
3.06  Borrower shall, with regards to the          Complied with for
Sector Specific Training Scheme, cause       1984-1985, no-compliance
NMYC to furnish to the Bank for its          for 1986 and henceforth.
review and approval, commencing on or
before April 1, 1983 and by each
April 1 thereafter, the Sectors arnual
training action plans for the following
year, which shall include a list of
training entities satisfactory to the Bank.
3.07  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank           Evaluation report received
for its review and comments,                 June 1984, on Sector
evaluation reports on the Sector             Specific Training Scheme.
Specific Training Scheme and the             Impact Evaluation completed.
Pilot Rural Mobile Training Scheme.
3.08  Borrower shall implement a program of         In full compliance.
incentives for the retention of
Staff at NMYC.
3.09  Borrower shall cause NMYC Staff in           Complied with by the creation
those Units responsible for industrial       of the Industry Manpower Office
manpower development and trade skills        in 1985 and NISD Skills
standards to be increased in numbers.        Standards Division in 1986.
3.10  Borrower shall cause NMYC to maintain         In full compliance.
at each existing training center
and to establish within six months of
the date of commissioning of each new
training center an advisory
committee to the training center.
4.02  (a) Borrower shall maintain                   In full compliance.
records adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures.
4.02 (c) Borrower shall:
(i)  have the accounts for each             In full compliance.
fiscal year audited by
independent auditors.
(ii) furnish to the Bank a                  In full compliance.  Submitted
certified copy of the                  to the Bank for 1983-1989.
report of such audit.
4.03   Borrower shall cause the works and           In full compliance.
facilities to be operated and
maintained in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and
educational policies and practices
and shall provide resources
required for the purpose.



- 31 -
TABLE 3.9:  BAKn  MSSICNS
A. THROUGH BOARD APPROVAL p/
Mission               Month/      No. of        No. of    Specialization
Year        Persons      Staff      Represented /
Days
Reconnaissance        10/77       1              5        EP
Identification        12/78       2             15        EP, TE
Preparation            9/79       3             40        EP, TE, E
3/80      3              8        TE. E. EP
8/80       2            16         TE, E
2/81       1             4        E
Pre-appraisal/        4-5/81      2             52        TE, E
Appraisal
Post-appraisal         8/81       2             16        TE
B. SUPERVISION a/
Supervision           Month/      No. of       No. of    Specialization          Over-all   Types of
Mission               Year        Persona       Staff     Represented k/         Status      Problems
Days
1                     11/82       1              4        E                      1
II                     4/83       1             4         TE                     2           Financial
II                     8/83       1              1.5      TE                     2           Financial
IV                     3/84       2             14        TE, GE                 2           Financial
V                      7/84       3             9         TE, LO, E              2           Financial
VI                     3/85       1              2        TE                     2           Financial
VII                    8/86       1             3         TE                     2
VIII                  10/86       1             15        TE                     2
IX                     4/87       3             12        TE, A, E               2
X                      6/87       1              7        TE                     2           Implemen-
tation
XI                     3/88       1              3        TE                     2           Implemen-
tation
XII                   10/88       2             20        TE, E                  2           Implemen-
tation
XIII                   2/89       1             17        TE                     2           Implemen-
tation
XIV                   10/89       2             20        TE. E                  2
XV                     3/90       3             13        TE. E, GE              2
a/    Data taken from mission terms of reference, aide-memoires, back-to-office reports, and supervision
reports.
Ji    X:D Education Planner; TX: Technical Educator; R: Economist; GX: General Educator; LO: Loan Officer;
A: Architect.






- 33 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 44
BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND SIMIARY
OF ACCOMPLISHMENT OF PROJECT
COMPONENTS' 1982-1990
1.   TRAINING INYRASTRUCTIJIE
1.1 CIVIL WORKS
Under the original civil works targets, four (4) new PMTCs were to be
constructed to complete the existing network of training centers established
from the period 1969-1979 through the assistance of UNDP/ILO and IBRD Credit
No. 349-PH. Likewise included is the construction of a Construction Industry
Training Center and two (2) Trade Testing Centers. The completed new ENTCs
are shown in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: REGIONAL MANPOWER TRAINING CENTERS (RMTCs)
PROJECT               LOCATION/REGION        COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
RHTC Tuguegarao       Carig, Tuguegarao, Cagayan   November 1986  13,600,000.00
Region II-Cagayan Valley
RHTC Cagayan de Oro Tagoloan, Misamis Oriental March 1988 3,924,156.10
Region X-Northern
Mindanao
RMTC Tacloban         Tacloban, Leyte               January 1989    9,301,215.00
Region VIII-Eastern Vizayaa
RMTC Zamboanga        Zamboanga City,               April 1990      12,678,478.69
Region IX-Southern Mindanao
When the Project was restructured in 1986, certain revisions were made in
the civil works targets. The RMTC design were simplified, the proposed CITC
and Trade Testing Centers were canceled and with the savings generated from
such modifications, were rechanneled to the construction of an additional RMTC
and four (4) PMTCs in the Cordillera Administrative Region, a newly
established political subdivision in Northern Luzon. However, the
construction of RMTC Baguio was deferred because of the 1990 earthquake that
'Components are presented in accordance with the Restructured
Project. Some of the components identified in the original project were
incorporated, revised and/or renamed during restructuring. The rest, moat of
which were either deferred, modified and/or completed prior to restructuring.
are likewise aptly described in this Annex.



- 34 -
ANNEXA
Page 2 of 44
physically damaged the area. In its place, a Regional Office was constructed.
The four (4) PMTCs are shown in Table 1.2.
Table 1.2: PROVINCIAL MANPOWER TRAINING CENTERS (PMTCs)
PROJECT               LOCATION/REGION        COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
PMTC Abra             Pidigan, Abra                 May 1990         1,429,956.00
PMTC Kalinga-Apayao  Tabuk, Kalinga-Apayao          July 1990        1,326.707.05
PMTC Ifugao           Lagawe, Ifugao                December 1990   1,305,000.00
PMTC Mt. Province    Sabangan, Mt. Province         Started as of   1,320,096.65
April 30, 1991
With the Savings as a result of the cancellation of RMTC Baguio, two (2)
additional PMTCs have been constructed and one (1) existing structure
rehabilitated to be used as PMTC (Table 1.2a).
Table 1.2a: ADDITIONAL PROVINCIAL MANPOWER
TRAINING CENTERS
TITLE                 LOCATION/REGION        COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
PMTC Laguna           Calamba, Laguna               April 1991       1,434,746.70
PMTC Zambales         Iba, Zambales                 April 1991       1,513,063.00
PMTC Cavite           Trece Martires, Cavite        April 1991         350,000.00
(Rehabilitated)
The cancellation of CITC and TTCs during Project restructuring enabled
NMYC to rechannel funds for the rehabilitation of the existing RMTCs
constructed more than ten (10) years ago (Table 1.3), construction of new
dormitories (Table 1.4) as well as new RMDOs (Table 1.5) and the
rehabilitation/site development of the Central Office in Taguig (Table 1.6).



- 35 -
ANNEX A
Page 3 of 44
TabLe 1.3: REHABILITATION OF EXISTING RMTCs
PROJECT              LOCATION/REGION        COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
.....u..s.ssuu.ns s.uncssn.Wzs5s=tM=Su==ss.SS.u-s=S*SS UflBSfl*UUUU*U- -SU -SUUSS.
RMTC La Union        San Fernando, La Union         November 1989     922,000.00
(Phase I & 11)
................................................................................
PROJECT               LOCATION/REGION       COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
RMTC Batangas        Batangas City                  November 1988   1,194,197.50
(Phase I, II & III)
RMTC Guiguinto       Tabang, Guiguinto, Bulacan   November 1988   1,720,526.40
(Phase I, II & III)
RMTC Mariveles       Mariveles, Bataan              June 1989         869,818.92
(Phase I & II)
RMTC Pilf             San Jose, Pili,               March 1989       1,662,571.00
(Phase I & 11)       Camarines Sur
RMTC Tatisay         TaLisay, Negros OccidentaL   February 1989       343,300.60
(Phase I & 11)
RMTC Itoilo           ItoiLo City                   February 1989     377,134.68
(Phase I & II)
RMTC Cebu            BaniLad, Cebu City             February 1989     858,176.00
(Phase I & 11)
RNTC Cotabato        Cotabato City                  April 1989        718,776.77
(Phase I & II)
RhTC Davao           Buhisan, Tibungco,             May 1989          823,549.86
(Phase I & 11)       Davao City
RMTC lLigan          Ma. Cristina, Iligan City    December 1989   1,223,230.50
(Phase I & II)
(Phase 1II)                                       February 1991     333,840.00
Water System                                      February 1991     450,000.00
*az    5=zxsB5*uwwuU SUSz=zz US=  SSz SS= UUUf==l*-S 3*zzaamazzzSUsausSS*BUUSfalUass



- 36 -
ANNEX A
Page 4 of 44
Table 1.4: NEW DORMITORIES
PROJECT               LOCATION/REGION          COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
RMTC La Union         San Fernando, La Union         September 1988    357,000.00
RMTC Batangas         Batangas City                  August 1988        495,500.00
RMTC Pili             San Jose, Pili,                July 1988           437,471.00
Camarines Sur
RMTC Iloilo           IloiLo City                    May 1988            458,886.00
RMTC Cebu             Banilad, Cebu City             May 1988           438,975.00
RMTC Davao            Buhisan, Tibungco,             September 1988    457,795.00
Davao City
RMTC Cotabato         Cotabato City                  February 1991       132,000.00
Table 1.5: NEW REGIONAL MANPOWER OFFICES (RMDOs)
PROJECT               LOCATION/REGION          COMPLETION DATE    COST (P)
RMDO III              San Fernando, Pampanga         January 1990       899,765.00
RMDO XII              Cotabato City                  January 1990    1,000,000.00
RMDO X                Cagayan de Oro City            January 1990       910,305.13
RMDO Xi               Davao City                     January 1990    1,000,000.00
RMDO CAR              Baguio City                    December 1990   1,731,338.09
Table 1.6:   REHABILITATION OF CENTRAL OFFICE BUILDING/
SITE DEVELOPMENT TAGUIG
MZX--S=Z    -Z--s-S----t--= --= s-s--ZZZZ-ZUU333=u=UUEU zuU3 su3z3U
PROJECT               COMPLETION DATE            COST (P)
==sssssSZ======--sEZSzoaUSu=Z=flS-USZSUSS=S====ssz==S==*3333553ss
Training Room                   May 1987                 198,198.00
Perimeter Fence                 February 1988            720,720.00
Waterproofing                   January 1988           1,461,820.71
Adninistrative Building
1st 8 7th Floors          February 1990           2,041,231.75
2nd - 6th Floors          December 1989           2,522,601.30
NSTC Complex                    December 1989          4,192,163.40
NSTC Canteen                    May 1988                 121,051.40
NMYC Dormitory                  May 1988                 485,522.00
Site Development & Related    80X as of                6,830,992.371
Works (IncL. Dormitory)    April 1991          C.O. 779,300.14
'Burned on August 1988 and reconstructed as part of Site
Development and Related Works.



- 37 -
ANNEX A
Page 5 of 44
1.2 EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE
The Project furnished and equipped all four (4) new RMTCs, six (6) new
PMTCs and additional training and trade testing equipment for the existing
RMTCs including the NSTC at the Central Office. Additional equipment such as
micro-computers, audio-visual equipment and other necessary instruments/
handtools were likewise provided to support manpower planning, curriculum
development and other related training activities. These equipment/furniture
were procured thru International Competitive Bidding (ICBs) as shown in Table
1.7 and rest procured locally (LCBs) as shown in Table 1.8.
Table 1.7:  EQUIPMENT/IANDTOOLS/FURNITURE PROCURED
THRU INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (ICB) AND
INTERNATIONAL NEGOTIATED CONTRACT (INC)
COMPLETION OF         COST IN QUOTED
ICB NO.             DESCRIPTION                DELIVERY                 CURRENCY
3UUnU..U           US     UU.UUUU3U..UUU3UU3UU332...................................S .. , U =_.. 3 n  U
ICB I               (Repackaged)
[CB 11 & III        Tools & Equipment            August 1987          USS   139,184.46
for Trade Workshop/                               Y     670,850.00
Course                                            P       20,891.18
iCB IV-A            Tools & Eqpt. for             December 1988       USS   446,050.48
RMTC Tuguegarao
iCS IV-B            (Repackaged)
ICB IV-C            Audio-Visual Equipment        June 1988           Y  36,822,902.50
ICB V               Tools & Equipment             October 1988        USS   535,224.15
for RMTCs Cagayan de Oro,                         NTS   321,620.55
TacLoban & Zamboanga                              DFL   255,345.93
DM       5,940.00
P     889,876.50
ICB VI-A & B        Tools & Equipment             February 1990       P      754,672.00
for NSTC & Existing                               DFL     17,480.80
RMTCs                                             USS   264,221.50
Y   4,217,870.00
IL    166,582.00
DM     175,095.00
NFL      7,745.00
UKP      4,011.30
ICB VIl             Trade Testing Equipment   February 1990           P      815,438.00
USS    96,374.24
NTS 6,123,794.25
DFL    33,567.00
ICB Vil            TooLs & Equipment             October 1990        P   3,407,484.00
for CTCs and CAR                                  USS   130,751.73
NTS 1,540,125.38
OFL    52,443.28
ICB IX-A            Audio Visual Equipment    December 1990           P   3,624,438.00
ICB IX-B            Computers                    November 1990        P   1,081,080.00



- 38 -
ANNEX A
Page 6 of 44
....u.uU...uu...........uuu..u.u.....uz.....uu..........uuuuu.....u...uuu........
COMPLETION OF        COST IN QUOTED
ICB NO.            DESCRIPTION              DELIVERY                CURRENCY
uUUssssu3u3 zuU3u33us3u3zuU=UU=SZUUU5UUUZZZZEU-UU5UUUUS3S333su3*uUsa-uUssUu muZU
USS   173,181.28
Reorder                                     December 1990      USS21,000,000.00
ICB IX-C           Printing Equipment          November 1990      P   1,032,740.40
ICB X-A            Various Training           ApriL 1991          USS   346,819.00
Equipment                                      DM     24,435.00
DFL    55,138.00
SingS  13,500.00
UKP     1,921.70
ICS X-B            Compact NobiLe Unit         March 1991         USS   266,755.00
PACKAGE I & III   TooLs & Equipment            ApriL 1991         USS   312,373.T3
for New PNTCs, &                               DFL    56,254.00
Tools/Eqpt. for                                Y   8,541,955.20
Unawarded ICBs for                             SimgS  76,342.09
RMTCs                                          P   1,281,811.00
PACKAGE 11         HoteL & Restaurant          December 1990      P   2,581,901.00
Equipment
INC 1              SuppLy of Various Sewing   May 1988            USS   196,731.00
Machine  Jukil
INC 2              Various Juki Equipment    August 1989          USS    49,911.00
for GITP
Garment Eqpt. (Non-Juki)                       USS    17,904.00
USS    20,768,00
P     137,280.00
P     121,410.00
P     156,750.00
P      22,960.00
P      93,600.00
P      48,500.00
INC 3              Various Spare Parts        April 1990          USS     7,619.50
for Juki Sewing Machine
UUUUUUUUUU  ES  333335  32  5233  332333   333332533333  3333333  33 ss5ssas=Z2S3-33



- 39 -
ANNEX A
Page 7 of 44
Table 1.8: EQUIPMENT/HANDTOOLS/FURNITURE PROCURED
THRU LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (LCB)
COMPLETION OF        COST IN QUOTED
LCB NO.           DESCRIPTION               DELIVERY               CURRENCY
LCB 1              (Repackaged)
LCB 2              (Failure-Unawarded)
LCB 3             Micro Computer Systems    August 1988          P      139,880.00
P      37,200.00
P      29,708.00
P      67,500.00
P   1,598,200.00
P     248,625.00
LCB 4              Various Tools/Equipment   February 1988       P      141,834.00
for RMTC Cagayan de Oro,                      P      72,067.50
Tacloban & Zamboanga                          P       65,700.00
P      65,175.00
LCB 5              Supply, Delivery &         September 1988    USS    46,000.00
*nstaltation of Elevators                     P     638,000.00
LCB 6              Computer Room ACUs,        November 1988      P     453,500.00
CounciL Room (GITP) &                         P      121,487.15
NSTC Function Room ACUs,
Auditorium ACUs
LCB 7              Furniture for Cagayan      September 1989    P
de Oro, Tacloban and
Zamboanga
LCB 8             NSTC Water Pump/            August 1988        P      104,989.00
Iligan Water System                           P     168,726.14
LCB 11 * 12        Vehicles & Mobile          June 1990          P  24,842,180.00
Equipment                                     P      252,000.00
LCB 13            Transformers for            JuLy 1989          P      399,300.00
Tacloban & Zamboanga
LCB 14            Acdnin Building Aircon      January 1990       P   2,400,850.90
LCB 15             Computers Phase II         October 1988       P
LCB 16             SuppLy & Delivery of       July 1989          P   1,247,800.00
Various Office Equipment/                     P   1,020,000.00
Various Engine for         December 1990      P      204,000.00
RMTCs and NSTC
LCB 17             Rehab of Standby           March 1991         P      126,023.19
Generator



- 40 -
ANNEX A
Page 8 of 44
==.zuasuus=s..=f--l=z===      sss-=ssss-======fl=usssSSflU...SUUUU..S3-sU
COMPLETION OF        COST IN QUOTED
LCB NO.           DESCRIPTION               DELIVERY               CURRENCY
LCB 18            Rehab of Auditorium         March 1991         p      136,000.00
Lighting                                      P       13,350.00
LCB 19            Various Tools/Eqpt.         September 1990    p       203,056.00
for CAR PMTC/RMTC, NSTC
LCB 20             Furniture for CAR PMTCs                       P
and RMTC CAR
LCB 21             Various Spare Parts        ApriL 1991         p      390,190.00
Y   2,121,878.00
LCB 24             Commuication Eqpt.         March 1991         p      769,180.64
LCB 25            Office Furniture, Rugs    March 1991           p      385,143.73
and Blinds
LCB 26             SuppLy, Delivery &         June 1990          p      573,461.05
Installation of NMYC
Admin. Water Pump Rehab
LCD 27            Various Taining Eqpt.       April 1991         p      574,470.52
LCB 28            Supply, DeLivery &          May 1990           p      .W09,932.80
InstatLation of Emergency
Lighting System for NMYC
Admin. BuiLding
LCB 29            VehicLes Fiber GLass        September 1990    p      356,000.00
Body
LCB 30            Airconditioning Units       July 1990          p      234,053.00
LCB 31            Office and Sports Eqpt.   March 1991           P      483,723.37
===-----z=Zz-=Z ==Z .-===..u=.s...
2.      TRAINING  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
2.1     INSTITUTIONALIZED  TRAINORS  DEVELOPMENT
Cognizant of the need to develop its trainors, NMYC has taken the
initiative to rationalize and institutionalize trainors training with the end
view of systematizing trainor development programs at all levels. Emphasis is
placed on a more wholistic approach in developing trainor competencies
considering the knowledge, attitudes, and skills requisites.
Under the Project, a wide range of trainors training activities
including fellowship programs conducted by both local and foreign institutions
were directed toward the career development and growth of NMYC trainors the
offshoot of which will lead to the establishment of an accreditation and
certification scheme for trainors nationwide.



- 41 -
ANNEXA
Page 9 of 44
After acquiring its first batch of instructors in the mid- 70's, NMYC
exposed them to a six-month in-country training in their respective areas of
expertise which was heavily skill-based. The necessity of the moment called
for the immediate implementation of skills development programs that will meet
the training needs of the growing number of unemployed and unskilled members
of the labor force. This paved the way for a more systematic and
comprehensive approach in improving the training delivery of the Agency.
The establishment of the National Trainors Training Program (NTTP) in
1985 created the unique concept of the hierarchical training scheme. The
scheme which is essentially national in character, seeks to provide NMYC and
its counterparts, in both the private and public sectors, with a regular
supply of professionally trained training managers (T3), trainor of trainors
(T2), and trade/shop instructors (Ti) who are deemed competent in methodology,
training administration, guidance, standards and trade skills. In cooperation
with the British Council, a consultancy agreement was forged to conduct a
Training Needs Assessment for NMYC trainors and eventually pursue an in-county
course on trainors training for Ti, T2 and T3 levels.
In a short existence as a unit, the NTTP spawned the framework of the
existing pedagogical system currently used in its training centers. Commonly
dubbed as the "learner-centered approach to instruction," this method gained
popular acceptance by the private sector, too. NTTP later evolved into the
Trainors Development Department after Restructuring in 1986. From the period
1983-1985, a total of l11 NMYC trainors/key personnel were trained (23 local,
88 overseas) while a total of 1,457 underwent the Institutionalized Trainors
Training Program from the period 1987-1990, both local and foreign (Table 2.1)
in various Trainors Development Program (Table 2.2).
Table 2.1: TRAINORS TRAINING BY LEVEL
I 1983-1985  I   1987       1   1988      1   1989      I   1990
LEVEL  ---=-=---- =--   --------I-------------I-------------I-------------
ILocallForeignILocallForeignILocallForeignILocallForeignILocallForeign
Ti   I     I       11541   30 1533         24    216|  24|-I    6
T2   I     I       11271   _   1601    19   1251    30|-I    -
I     IIIIIIIII
T3   I     I          73   | 11  |   1  |   6  |  -   |  17   |  -  |   1
Subtotall  23 1   88 1 354 1  41  1 594 1  49  1 341 1  71  1-             7
_____ -----------------   -------------  ---64 - _____, -----   _ __ __ __
G/Total I   Ill       1   395       1   643            412       |     7
--------------------------------------   ______---__--_---___--____--____...



- 42 -
ANNEX A
Page 10 of 44
Table 2.2: TRAINORS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
A.    Foreign Programs
TI
Technical Training on New Trade Areas (Canada)
Craftsmen Skills Upgrading; AWS Licensure Program
Training Course on Automotive (Japan)
Vocational Eduction Principles and Didactics of Lecturers Engaged on
Teacher Training (Germany)
Training on Welding Technology (Germany)
Training Course in General Machining (Korea)
Training for Mechanical Drafting/Design and Tool and Die Making
(Indonesia)
ASEAN Regional Training Programs (Malaysia)
T2
Training Mission on New Technology Programs (Canada)
Training Course on Computer Application in the Management of Vocational
Training Centers (Italy)
Seminar on Management of Vocational Training Facilities (Japan)
Technical Training on Maintenance System (Austria)
Hawthorn Trainors Training (Australia)
B.    Local Programs
TI
Training for New RMTCs
Methodology Training for Trainors of Industry and Vocational Technical
Institutions
Training for Existing RMTCs and NSTC
Training on Woodworking
Training Methodology for Footwear and Leathergoods
Value Development Program
T2
Training for Staff Trainors
Trade Testing Officer's Course
Training Methodology
Presentation Skills Workshop
2.2   SKILLS STANDARDIZATION AND CERTIFICATION
In 1983, the Project Team (P-18 Development of Trade Standards) was
created within NMYC to implement the component. Its objectives are the
following:
(a)   to expand the existing Trade Testing and Certification   Program into a
nationally recognized and accepted scheme by setting common standards
for occupational skills which can serve as sound bases for recruitment,
training, wage setting, among others;
(b)   to upgrade the quality and status of blue-collar workers hence enhancing



- 43 -
ANNEX A
Page 11 of 44
productivity and promoting the appreciation for vocational
educational/training and blue-collar occupations; and
(c)   to assist in the development of human resources by providing a precise
means of assessing the skills and manpower of the country, both
qualitatively and quantitatively.
Subsequently, a Memorandum of Agreement (Phase I) was signed with the
MERALCO FOUNDATION INC. (MFI), a local consultancy firm, that assisted in the
development of the Master Plan for the implementation of the component.
Initial efforts focused on industry consultation to identify 42 critical
occupations, development of interview instruments and the training of data
collection coordinators from 6 RMTCs.
Under the MFI (Phase I) agreement, a Model Trade Standard (Industrial
Electrician) was developed together with the corresponding model Training
Recommendation, Trainors Guide and Trade Test.
Using the model standard, 10 occupational titles were developed thru the
assistance of MFI under a Phase II agreement. These standards, together with
the corresponding Training Recommendations, Trainors Guides and Trade Tests
for the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd class levels, are as follows:
(i)     Tool and Die Maker
(ii)    Refrigeration Mechanic
(iii)   General, Mason
(iv)    Structural Steel Worker
(v)     Furniture and Cabinet Maker
(vi)    Industrial, Sewing Machine Mechanic
(vii)   Industrial Cutter
(viii)  Offset Operator
(ix)    Diesel Mechanic
(x)     Tractor Mechanic
When the Project was restructured in 1986, the work plan and targets
were modified. From the original 42 occupational titles, it was increased to
200 and in 1987 further raised to 266. By the end of 1989, a total of 200
occupational skills standards (Table 2.6) were developed, 189 of which were
developed during the period 1986-1989.
Table 2.3: TRADE STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT
No. of Trade Standards   Developed In-House  C Contracted-Out
Developed
=s=2===2222222=====2=2=s===s====222========ss======2s22--2=r=s====s
200               51             149
w==wssss --------------=====Z=== ===============s==============
Standards w/    Standards wl  Standards  Standards   Standards
Trade Test    Training Recom.   Pilot Tested  VaLidated   Printed
and Trainor Guide
198           11        ,   49     '   126        16
I               I          I== = = = == = ----------------------------



- 44 -
ANNEX A
Page 12 of 44
By 1989, a 5-year plan towards a National Occupational Skills
Certification Program was developed and the Guidelines for Accreditation of
Trade Testing Centers and Trade Testing Officers were likewise implemented.
ro promote the program, promotional materials were printed (brochure and 24
flyers) and trade test packages for 7 trade areas were disseminated under the
institutionalized trade testing program.
Giving due emphasis to the promotion of the program in the regions, a
series of regional sectoral consultations were made and culminated in the
conduct of 3 National Youth Skills Olympics and 10 Regional Youth Skills
Olympics from the period of 1983-1989.
Table 2.4: TRADE TESTING OFFICERS
I 1983-1985 | 1986-1989 |  1990   |    TOTAL
Trained      |   144    I   145    I    85   I       374
Accredited   I    72    |   100    I   186   |       358
----                  ---------_---s_C_--______ --_ - ------_----
From the original target of 91,400 workers tested, the total actual
output registered from 1983-1989 was 193,034 overshooting the target by
approximately 47.3X.
Table 2.5: WORKERS TESTED/CERTIFIED
| 1983 | 1984 | 1985 | 1986 | 1987 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990 | TOTAL
I---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tested    118,848119,796127,041118,408127,024139,576143,465151,0441 245,202
Certified 1 8,7451 9,814114,6831 9,449112,044116,834118,354121,5291 111,452
----______-______,--------- ---,, --,__ ---_________---- _--- __---- _-- ,---- ,,----,---



- 45 -
ANNEX A
Page 13 of 44
Table 2.6:   CATALOGUE OF OCCUPATIONAL SKILLS STANDARDS
DEVELOPED UNDER WORLD BANK PROJECT 1983-1989
===========zz=flS=sus-ussuuu...xuusazs3uusg=usss.a..ssuasa=z==Z=ZX5suumsu=sw===
TITLE                           YEAR DEVELOPED        TRADE TEST
001  Industrial ELectrician (ModeL Standard)          1984 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
002  Industrial Cutter, Garments                      1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,1st
003  Industrial Sewing Machine Mechanic               1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,1st
004  Refrigeration Mechanic                           1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
005  Tractor Mechanic (N.E.)                          1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
006  Diesel Mechanic                                  1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
007  Structural Steel Worker                          1985 (MFI)      3rd,2nd,lst
008  Mason, GeneraL                                   1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
009  Furniture and Cabinet Maker                      1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
010  Tool & Die Maker                                 1985 (MFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
011  Offset Pressman (Sheet Fed)                      1985 (NFI)       3rd,2nd,1st
012  Sewer, Garments                                1987 (IN-HOUSE)   CLass A & B
013  Ring Spinner                                   1987 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,1st
014  Automotive Mechanic (H.D.)                     1987 (IN-HNOSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
015  Automotive Mechanic (L.D.)                     1987 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
016  MotorcycLe Mechanic                            1987 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
017  Auto-Bus Aircon Mechanic                       1987 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
018  Autobody Repairman                             1987 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
019  Painter, Automotive                            1987 (IN-HOUSE) One Category
020  Machinist, Automotive                          1987 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
021  Pipefitter/Fabricator                            1987 (PCA)       3rd,2nd,1st
022  Sheet Metal Worker                               1987 (PCA)       3rd,2nd,lst
023  Airduct Worker                                   1987 (PCA)      3rd,2nd,lst
024  Painter, Construction                            1987 (PCA)     One Category
025  Shutterer                                        1987 (PCA)      3rd,2nd,lst
026  Roofer                                           1987 (PCA)       3rd,2nd,lst
027  Insulator                                        1987 (PCA)      3rd,2nd,lst
028  Steelfixer, Rebar                                1987 (PCA)       3rd,2nd,lst
029  Alurninun Fabricator/Installer                   1987 (PCA)     One Category
030  Rigger                                           1987 (PCA)       3rd,2nd,lst
031  Heavy Equipment Operator, Lifting                1987 (PCA)       Class A & B
and Hoisting
032  Heavy Equipient Operator Earth Moving            1987 (PCA)       3rd,2nd,1st
(Bul ldozer)
033  Foundrymara, Iron                              1987 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
034  Foundry Worker (non-Ferrous)                   1987 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
035  Machinist, General                             1987 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
036  Machine Tool Mechanic                          1987 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
037  Plant Equipment Mechanician                    1987 ('N-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
(Millwright)
038  Transformer Repairman                          1987 (PEWGIBFI)   3rd,2nd,lst
039  Instrumentation Repairman                      1987 (PEWGIBFI)        2nd,1st
040  Electric Meter Repairman                       1987 (PEWGIBFI)   3rd,2nd,1st
041  Electrician, General                           1987 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
042  Electrical Motor Repairman                     1987 (PEWGIBFI)   Class A & B
043  Substationman                                  1987 (PEWGISFI)   3rd,2nd,lst
044  Service Pipe Layer                             1987 (PEWGIBFI) One Category
045  Water Meter Repairman                          1987 (PEWGISFI)  One Category
046  Power Plan Equipment Operator (Steam)          1987 (PEWGIBFI)   3rd,2nd,1st
047  Power Switchboard Operator                     1987 (PEWGISFI)   3rd,2nd,lst
048  Water Pump Operator                            1987 (PEWGIBFI) One Category
049  Water Treatment Plant Operator                 1987 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
050  Draftsman, General                             1988 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
051  Draftsman, Civil Engineering                   1988 (IN-HOUSE) One Category
052  Draftsman, Architectural                       1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
053  Illustrator                                    1988 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
054  Draftsman, Electrical                          1988 (IN-MOUSE)  One Category
055  Dressmaker                                     1988 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B



- 46 -
ANNEX A
Page 14 of 44
=3=2=2=2=22=3==========2===== =2=2=== == ==3=2=3=2=rz=2=s==
TITLE                           YEAR DEVELOPED       TRADE TEST
056  TaiLor                                         1988 (IN-HOUSE)   CLtss A & B
057  SmalL Engine Mechanic                          1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
058  Wooden Sash Maker                              1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
059  Wood Working Machine Operator                  1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
060  Wood Finisher, Furniture                       1988 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
061  Upholsterer, Furniture and Automotive          1988 (IN-HOUSE)   CLass A & B
062  Patternmaker, Footwear                         1988 (IN-HOUSE)        TSS Only
063  Footwear Maker                                 1988 (IN-HOUSE)        TSS Only
064  Waiter, GeneraL                                1988 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
065  Bartender                                      1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
066  Butcher (Abattoirs)                            1988 (IN-HOUSE)        TSS OnLy
067  Roomboy/Chambermaid                            1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
068  Typewriter Service Technician                  1988 (IN-HOUSE)   CLass A & B
069  Front Desk Clerk                               1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
070  Secretary                                      1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
071  Stenographer, Court                            1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
072  Stenographer, Office                           1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
073  Computer Operator (mainframe)                  1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
074  Data Encoder                                   1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
075  Conputer Programmer/Analyst (Micro)            1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
076  Bookkeeper                                     1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
077  Typist                                         1988 (IN-HWOSE)   Class A & B
078  Optician                                       1988 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
079  Cosmetologist                                  1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
080  Hairstylist                                    1988 (IN-HWOSE)  One Category
081  Watch & Clock Repairman                        1988 (IN-HOUSE)   3rd,2nd,lst
082  Jewelry Maker (Goldsmith/SiLversmith)          1988 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
083  Warehouseman                                   1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
084  Dental Prosthesis Maker                        1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
085  Stonesetter/Engraver                           1988 (IN-HOUSE)  One Category
086  Stuff Toy Maker                                1988 (IN-HOUSE)   Class A & B
087  Draftsman, mechanical                           1988 (MEIFBI)   One Category
088  Foundryman, Steel                               1988 (MEIFBI)   One Category
089  Die Caster                                      1988 (MEIFBI)   One Category
090  Press Worker                                    1988 (MEIFBI)   One Category
091  Patterrnaker (Foundry)                          1988 (MEIFSI)    Class A & B
092  TooLmaker                                       1988 (MEIFBI)    Class A & B
093  Civil Engineering Technician                     1988 (PCA)        3rd,2nd,lst
094  Carpenter, General                               1988 (PCA)        3rd,2nd,lst
095  Parquetry Worker                                 1988 (PCA)      One Category
096  Glazier, Construction                            1988 (PCA)      One Category
097  Housebuilder, General                            1988 (PCA)      One Category
098  Building Maintenance                             1988 (PCA)      One Category
099  Farm Tractor Mechanic                           1988 (ITMDS)    One Category
100  Farm Inplements Mechanic                        1988 (ITMDS)    One Category
101  Farm Tractor Operator                           1988 (ITMDS)    One Category
102  Sugar Boiler (Building Pan Tender)              1988 (ITMDS)    One Category
103  Instrumentation (Sugar MiLL)                    1988 (ITHDS)    One Category
104  Knitter (Flat Machines) Manual                 1988 (ATIBFI)    One Category
105  Embroiderer (Hulti-head Machine)               1988 (ATIBFI)    One Category
106  Finishing Machine Operator                     1988 (ATIBFI)      Class A & B
107  Weaver                                         1988 (ATIBFI)    One Category
108  Electrical Appliance Service Technician         1988 (ASAP)      One Category
109  Domestic ACR Service Technician                 1988 (ASAP)      One Category
110  Package Air-Con Service Technician              1988 (ASAP)      One Category
111  Video Electronics Service Technician            1988 (ASAP)      One Category
112  Audio Electronics Service Technician            1988 (ASAP)      One Category
113  Fuel Injection Technician                      1988 (LTIBFI)    One Category
114  Bus Driver                                     1988 (LTIBFI)    One Category
115  Tire Serviceman                                1988 (LTIBFI)    One Category
116  Battery Serviceman                             1988 (LTIBFI)    One Category



- 47 -
ANNEX A
Page 15 of 44
s...s..u....     z      =u3sfls.s..3.3s3.3.3.s3u3.......u3u3ssssss..u3u.su=..
TITLE                          YEAR DEVELOPED        TRADE TEST
*s===u=====ssassszu.u3uuus=.ss.fls=sssB.=ss=..=sa==ss===s====ss3s=u3suzzs3=ss.
117  Forklift Operator                              1988 (LTIBFI)   One Category
118  Gas Tungsten ARC Welder (TIG)                  1988 (TSAI)      3rd,2nd,lst
119  Telephone Installer and Repairman              1988 (TSAI)      3rd,2nd,lst
120  Telephone Splicer                              1988 (TSAI)      3rd,2nd,lst
121  Telephone Central Office Equipment              1988 (TSAI)     3rd,2nd,lst
(Maintenance) Serviceman
122  TeLephone PBX (Maintenance) Serviceman          1988 (TSAI)     3rd,2nd,lst
123  TeLephone Lineman (Construction) and Maint.  1988 (TSAI)        3rd,2nd,lst
124  Wood Furniture Prototype (Sample) Maker         1988 (CFIP)     One Category
125  Rattan Furniture Sample (Prototype) Maker    1988 (CFIP)        One Category
126  Wood Carver, Furniture                          1988 (CFIP)     One Category
127  Bamboo Furniture Maker                          1988 (CFIP)     One Category
128  Rattan Furniture Maker                          1988 (CFIP)     One Category
129  Shoes and Bags Repairer                         1988 (CI)       Class A & B
130  Electroplater, General                          1988 (CI)       Class A & B
131  Iron Works Fabricator                           1988 (CI)       Class A & B
132  Boiler Tender                                   1988 (CI)       Class A & B
133  Ceramics Products Maker                         1988 (CI)       3rd,2nd,1st
134  Commercial Photographer                        1988 (CI)        One Category
135  Cook                                           1988 (HRIBFI)      Class A & B
136  Butcher (Hotel & Restaurant)                   1988 (HRIBFI)      Class A & B
137  Pantryman                                      1988 (HRIBFI)      Class A & B
138  Pastry Cook                                    1988 (HRIBFI)      Class A & B
139  Baker, General                                 1988 (HRIBFI)      Class A & B
140  Reprographic Equipment Service Technician    1988 (POMDA)        One Category
141  Computer Service Technician                    1988 (POMDA)      One Category
142  Calculator & Adding Machine Service Tech.    1988 (POMDA)        One Category
143  Valve and Hydrant Repairman                     1988 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
144  Main Pipe Layer                                1988 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
145  Deepwell Pump Operator (Submersible Pump)    1988 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
146  Well Driller (Cable Tool)                       1988 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
147  FieLd Equipment Operator                        1988 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
148  Water Waste Investigator                        1988 (PEWGIBFI)  One Category
149  Compositor, Hot Metal                           1988 (PIBFI)     One Category
150  Compositor, Cold Type                          1988 (PIBFI)      One Category
151  Repro-Cameraman                                1988 (PIBFI)        Class A & B
152  Letterpress Pressman                           1988 (PIBFI)        Class A & B
153  Binder, General                                1988 (PISFI)       Class A & B
154  Silkscreen Printer                             1988 (PIBFI)      One Category
155  PLatemaker                                     1988 (PIBFI)       Class A & B
156  Desktop Publishing Operator                    1988 (PIBFI)      One Category
157  Patterrnmaker                                   1989 (ATISFI)     Class A & B
158  Shuttle Cam Loom Fixer (Textile)               1989 (ATIBFI)    One Category
159  Handguided High Speed Embroidery Machine        1989 (ATIBFI)    One Category
Operator
160  Stripper (Black and White)                    1989 (PIBFI)       Class A & B
161  Stripper (Colored)                            1989 (PIBFI)       Class A & B
162  Paper Cutter Operator                          1989 (PIBFI)     One Category
163  Perfect Binding Operator                      1989 (PIBFI)      One Category
164  Color Separation Technician                   1989 (PIBFI)       Class A & B
165  Offset Press (Web Fed)                        1989 (PIBFI)       3rd,2nd,lst
166  Artificial Breeder (For Large Rusinants)    1989 (ITMDS)        One Category
167  Nursery Worker                                1989 (ITMDS)       Class A & B
168  Livestock Farmer (Swind)                       1989 (ITMDS)     One Category
169  Poultry Farmer                                1989 (ITMDS)      One Category
170  Dairy Farm Worker                             1989 (ITMDS)      One Category
171  Fish Farm Worker                              1989 (ITMDS)      One Category
172  BLacksmith                                    1989 (ITMDS)      One Category
173  Dairy Plant Operator                          1989 (ITMDS)       CLass A & B
174  Electrical Engineering Technician, General  1989 (ROVEN)        One Category



- 48 -
ANNEX A
Page 16 of 44
TITLE                    YEAR DEVELOPED    TRADE TEST
176 Mechanical Engineering Technician (HVAC)   1989 (ROVEN)    One Category
177 Extractive Metallurgy Technician     1989 (ROWN)    One Category
178 Mining Technician, GeneraL            1989 (ROVEN)   One Category
179 Metallurgical Technician, PhysicaL    1989 (ROVEN)    One Category
180 Hydraulic Excavator (Backhoe) Operator  1989 (ACEL)    Class A * B
175 MechanicaL Engineering Technician (Motors  1989 (ROVEN)   One Category
and Engine)
181 Wheel Loader Operator                  1989 (ACEL)    CLass A & B
182 Motor Grader Operator                  1989 (ACEL)    Class A & B
183 Rough Terrain Crane Operator           1989 (ACEL)    Class A & 9
184 Tower Crane Operator                   1989 (ACEL)    3rd,2nd,1st
185 Truck Mounted Crane Operator          1989 (ACEL)    3rd,2nd,1st
186 Bench Molder                          1989 (TSAI)   One Category
187 Floor & Pit Molder                    1989 (TSAI)   One Category
188 Coremaker                             1989 (TSAI)   One Category
189 Tool & Cutter Grinder                 1989 (TSAI)    Class A & B
190 Diemaker (Forging)                    1989 (TSAI)    Class A & B
191 Mold Maker (Plastic)                  1989 (TSAI)    Ctass A & B
192 Mold Maker (Permanent Nold)           1989 (TSAI)   One Category
193 Tilesetter, General                   1989 (PCA)     Class A & B
194 PLasterer, General                    1989 (PCA)     Class A & B
195 Concrete Finisher, General            1989 (PCA)    One Category
196 Painter, Structural                   1989 (PCA)    One Category
197 Printing Machine Mechanic             1989 (PIBFI)
198 Heavy Equipment Electrician           1989 (ACEL)
199 HydrauLic Mechanic (H.E.)             1989 (ACEL)
200 Crawler Crane Operator                 1989 (ACEL)
2.3 CURRICULUM AND TRAINING AIDS DEVELOPMENT
NMYC's training programs are based on carefully planned and developed
curricula that take into account not only the skills a trainee has to learn
but positive work attitudes as well . A Curriculum and Training Aids Develop-
ment Division (CTADD) later renamed Training Technology Development (TTD)
after reorganization was created as early as 1975 to design and develop train-
ing programs, curricula and workbooks in the form of modules of employable
skills and audio-visual presentations using the modular approach. These are
made available to individual, companies and groups who seek NMYC assistance in
training programs.
The basic objective of the Project is to standardize course contents of
basic skills training programs in NMYC's regional training centers thru the
establishment of a national framework for standards in curriculum, training
materials, and training package development production and utilization thereby
strengthening NMYC's manpower development programs thru the integration into
its training delivery system developmental efforts in the areas of planning,
development, implementation and evaluation of curriculum, training materials
and training packages.
A significant achievement was the development in 1985 of 880 learning
elements for 11 occupational titles under this Project component. Subse-
quently, when the Project was restructured, recent council-wide internal eval-
uation concluded that the utilization of these materials/documents on a



- 49 -
ANNEX A
Page 17 of 44
national scale cannot be fully appreciated without being evaluated and vali-
dated along with the other components of skills training programs. Hence, a
new dimension in the implementation of this component was launched. Table 2.7
depicts the developments in curriculum and training aids from the period 1983-
1990.
Table 2.7: CURRICULUM AND TRAINING AIDS DEVELOPMENT
-------- m ------                                                                         =       ==-====m- --
1982-1985                                                     1986-1990
o  Developed/printed 800 learning                          o  7 trade areas provided with training
elements for 11 occupational                               packages
titles                                                o  7 trainor's guide completed
o Per capita cost established for 7
comprehensive courses
o 105 training packages and support
materials for CTCs developed/
distributed
o 47 video tape titles acquired/
distributed
o 37 prototype low-cost training aids
produced
Table 2.7a:  LEARNING ELEMENTS DEVELOPED, 1982-1985
OCCUPATIONAL TITLES (11)                          NO. DEVELOPED                          TRADE AREA
--------------=              ==  ===
Diesel Mechanic                            '             81                 Automotive
Heavy Equipment (Tractor Mechanic)                      115                 Automotive
Industrial Electricity                                   36                 Electricity
TooL and Die                                             80                 Machine Shop
Refrigeration Mechanic                                   70                 Refrigeration and Air-conditioning
Structural Steel Worker                                  74                 Welding and Steel Fabrication
GeneraL Masonry                                          64                 Building Construction
Offset Pressman                            I             87                 Printing
Furniture and Cabinet Maker                              92                 Furniture Production
Industrial Cutter                                        56                 Garments
Industrial Sewing Machine Mechanic        !              69           !     Garments
-==========================5=-=============================~=  -
TOTAL NUMBER DEVELOPED                    g             824
--------------=--=== = = ==== ==
Table 2.7b: TRAINORS GUIDE DEVELOPED, 1986-1990
OCCUPATIONAL TITLES (10)                    i        GENERIC COURSES (6)
========================--                        -SS=s========~=.=========
Diesel Mechanic                               General Automotive
Heavy Equipment (Tractor Mechanic)          ' General Building Construction
Industrial Electricity                       General Electricity
Tool and Die                                  General Machine Shop
Refrigeration Mechanic                       Refrigeratlon and Air Conditioning
Structural Steel Worker                      Welding
Offset Pressman
Furniture and Cabinet Maker
IndustriaL Cutter (Garments)
Industrial Sewing Machine Mechanic



- 50 -
ANEX A
Page 18 of 44
Tabte Z.7c: LEARNING PACKAGES DEVELOPED, 1986-1990
.......................................................
GENERIC COURSES (7)
U.........U....U.......................................
GeneraL Automotive
General BuiLding Construction
General ELectricity
General ELectronics
Goneral Machine Shop
Refrigeration and Airconditioning
Welding and Steel Fabrication
*s=s..u.s....==...33u33.fl..nzz-uzmumusuas-ss=ssuz=usus
OPERATIVE CURSES t5)
Automotive Painting
House Printing
Fish Processing
Food Processing
Furniture and Cabinet Making
...............UU..U.........U............UU............
COTTAGE/LIVELIHOD INIMSTRY CMURSES (3)
ZUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUSUUUUU*EUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUZUUU-
Dressmaking
Tailoring
Basketry (Handicraft)
Tble 2.7d: VIDEO TAPES PURCHASED, 1986-1990
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION                NO. PURCHASED
.......................................................
Pipe Fitting                                     9 1
Basic Nachine Technology                        13
Basic Engine Lathe                               9
Electronics                                     27
Electrical                                      27
WeLding                                         12
Etectric Arc Welding                             2
Refrigeration and Airconditioning                a 8
Safety                                           8
Trainors Training                               14
Principles of Technology                         1
- InternationaL Preview             I
*-----333333333333333z333333s3333323 z33.3333333.33.333s
TOTAL                                 110
2.4 VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE
In the early 80's, the Agency had an existing vocational guidance system
broken down into three (3) sub-systems, namely: mass motivation; client
assessment and counseling; and careers development. The effectiveness of the
system, however, has not been felt much more the appreciation of those tasked
with its delivery and implementation was sadly lacking. This fact was largely
due to lack of logistical support needed to operationalize the system.



- 51 -
ANNEXA
Page 19 of 44
The redirection of vocational guidance as a major component of VTP when
the project Was restructured sought to improve the system and the development
of internal capability of the technical staff who were tasked to implement the
project and to deliver the guidance services necessary. These programs
include training of Testing Officers; Workshop for Guidance Counselors;
Seminar on Work Attitudes Development and Ideology; and a National Conference
on Trends and Issues on Guidance.
In addition, studies and researches in aid of guidance program delivery
were  conducted particularly the development of guidance support communication
packages which helped both the guidance officers/trainors in delivering the
basic guidance services especially for the out-of-school youth who are major
recipients of the services.
From the period 1986-1990, a total of 167,337 trainees were oriented on
Value Development (VALDEV). Prior to restructuring, five (5) modules on work
attitudes were developed and conducted among 125 supervisors/participants.
Table 2.8 presents the accomplishments of this component. These programs were
intended to pursue the upgrading of the Agency's Selection and Training
Placement, promotion of the Blue Collar Profession and provision of Positive
Work Values. To propagate awareness among intended clientele, support
communication materials (Table 2.9) were likewise developed within the life
span of the Project.
Table 2.8: DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIOI4AL GUIDANCE
1982-1985                      1986-1990
o ImpLementation of 5 modules on    o InstitutfonaLIzed guidance sub-
work attitudes completed involving   system as training effectiveness
125 supervisors/participants   support mechanism
o DeveLoped and validated power  o Developed 62 support guidance
tests' e.g. Training Numeracy  communication materials
Test (TNT); Training Literacy
Test (TLT); Occupational Literacy  o 167,337 trainees oriented on VALDEV
Test (OLT); and Motor Coordination
(NC)
o Developed and printed 12 Career   o Completed System of Upgrading of the
Guidance materials             Agency's Selection of Trainees
o Developed and pilot tested Value   o Forged cooperation with mess media
Assessment Tools, Safety       on the promotion of Blue CoLlar
Consciousness Test and          Profession
Intervention Tools
o Developed and pilot tested modules
on the Provision of Positive Work
Value inputs to Trainors and Trainees.



- 52 -
ANNEX A
Page 20 of 44
Table 2.9: TITLES OF SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS AND
GUIDANCE MATERIALS DEVELOPED
PRINT
1.   Breaking Through the Barriers of Inexperience
2.   Bright Blue Horizon
3.   Self-Employment as a Career
4.   How to Succeed in Your Job
5.   Guidance Info-Aide:  Trainor and General Audience Series
5.1  The NMYC Trainor
5.2  The Androgical vs. Pedagogical Learning Methods of Learners
5.3  Rules on Professional Behavior
5.4  Effective Use of Humor To Relieve Tension
5.5  A Scientific Method of Technical Training
5.6  How to Fight Off Stress
5.7  How to Bring People in Your Life
5.8  How to Move Up into the Job Ahead of You
5.9  Approaches to Develop SeLf-Control
5.10 Ways to Build Self-Confidence
6.   Occupational Information Series on Garments
(Sewer, Reviser, Domestic Line Supervisor, Sample Cutter,
Presser, Embroiderers, Marker, Assorter, Spreader)
7.   Guidance Info-Aide:  Trainee Series
7.1  How To Plan Your Career
7.2  How To Get Your Tasks Done
7.3  Techniques for Thinking Clearly
7.4  Competencies To Gain Future Success
7.5  How To Get the Mcst Out of YourseLf
7.6  How To Handle Competition
7.7  How To Avoid Mistakes
7.8  Elements To Consider In Decision Making
7.9  How To Develop Self-Image
7.10 Some Mistakes To Avoid In Job Interview
8.   Integrated Brochures:  Construction, Hotel and Restaurant
9.   Handbook:  Tips for Jobseekers
10.  Handbook:  Blue Collar Options
11.  Productivity Enhancement Handbooks
11.1 Creating Eagerness in Learning Skills and Developing such Skills
11.2 Inculcating Serious and Responsible Attitudes Towards Work
11.3 Dedication and Integrity in Work
11.4 InstiLling a Deep and Abiding Interest in Quality Workmanship
11.5 Enhancing Trainee's Ability to Enjoy and Thrive in Work
11.6 Cultivating the Desire to Get Along and Cooperate with Peers
11.7 Encouraging the Propensity to Innovate and Improve One's Abilities
12.  Leaflets to Support Video Production
12.1 Handa Ka Na Ba?
12.2 How To Be SuccessfuL in Your Job
12.3 Trabaho Mo, Mahalin Mo
12.4 Kilala Mo Ba Ang Sarili Mo?
12.5 Training Sa NMYC
12.6 Kaya Mo, Kaya Ko
13.  Manpower Posters on Job Opportunities
(Construction, Automotive, Wood and Wood Industry,
Footwear and Leathergoods, Transportation, Hotel and Restaurant)
VIDEO TAPE RECORDING
1.   Training Induction Program
1.1 Positive Self-Concept
1.2 Self-Motivation
1.3 Doing Well While on Training
2.   Job Induction Program
2.1 Job Interview Skill
2.2 Job Attitudes and Habits
2.3  Keeping A Job
s=Z============================= ========== ==U3z



- 53 -
ANNEX A
Page 21 of 44
2.5 INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTATION SYSTEM
In pursuit of its various manpower development activities, NMYC stressed
the importance of information. It initiated the establishment of the Human
Bibliographic Information System (HRBIS) in 1982 which was coordinated with
the Asian and Pacific Skill Development Programme (APSDEP) of the
International Labour Organization (ILO) making NMYC the APSDEP's focal point
in the Philippines to integrate, document, and disseminated information on
vocational-technical education-training.
With the Council's reorganization in 1986, HRBIS became known as the
NMYC Information and Documentation Service (INFODOS). It was established to
provide information needed in manpower planning, conduct and management of
skills development programs. It shall collect and disseminate all types of
information that will provide the bases on which the skills training
mission/objectives of the Agency will evolve.
INFODOS has an estimated 6,000 items in its collection. It consists of
print and non-print information materials. They are classified according to:
(a)   Training Materials (TM) - includes learning elements, which covers the
areas in Automotive, Electricity, Construction (Civil), Industrial
Cutter-Garments and Textiles, Food Processing, Machine Shop,
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning, Carpentry, Training Modules,
Training recommendations, Trainors Guide, Video Tapes, Transparencies
charts, posters, sound slides, etc.
(b)   Non-Training Materials (NTM) - consists of books, technical journals and
magazines, annual and statistical reports on skills development. The
books cover the general areas of interest such as Economics, Management,
Human Resource Development and Vocational Training/ Education.
3.   RURAL MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
3.1 ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT TRAINING PROGRAM (EDTP)
As early as 1984, the NMYC has recognized the need to promote
entrepreneurship among out-of-school youths. With the assistance of the
International Labour Organization, the Training of Rural Enterprise
Development Program (TREND) and Youth Entrepreneurship and Self-Employment
Development Program (YESDEV) were conceptualized in 1985. This program was
the Agency's response to the government's renewed commitment to develop the
rural areas by contributing to employment creation and income generation in
the countryside. Convinced of the socio-economic desirability of the project,
TREND/YESDEV was made an integral component of the restructured Vocational
Training Project in 1987. As the year closed, it has become imperative that
the two programs, TREND and YESDEV, be fused into a single livelihood program
called Entrepreneurship Development Training Program (EDTP).



- 54 -
ANNEX A
Page 22 of 44
The objectives of EDTP were to provide and develop the knowledge, skills
and attitudes of would-be entrepreneurs in identifying opportunities and
resources to enable them to effectively put up and manage small businesses or
micro-enterprises.
To start up, Project Teams, both at the national and regional levels,
were organized. In 1987, the University of the Philippines-Institute for
Small Scale Industries (UP-ISSI) conducted the NMYC EDP Seminar Workshop
participated in by twenty-seven (27) officers coming from both national and
regional offices. The immediate output of this was the finalization of the
TREND/YESDEV guidelines (selection, implementing and monitoring/evaluation),
the preparation of EDP course curriculum and the identification of training
aids/materials needed for the program.  The monitoring/   evaluation design
was likewise prepared.
During the first batch of pilot implementation, the National Project
Team monitored/supervised each of the seven (7) pilot regions. Assistance
activities to regions varied but in the range of networking with partners,
sourcing of capital funds, site selection, recruitment and selection of
applicants, conduct of training, business plan, evaluation and monitoring of
graduates.
Subsequently, a series of staff development programs were conducted to
augment and strengthen the capabilities of the staff of NMYC to conduct
entrepreneurship programs nationwide.  A summary of these programs are shown
in Table 3.1.
An evaluation study was conducted from August to September 1988. Of the
total 494 trainee-graduates, 74% (366 was the actual number) responded. A
total of 66 businesses (an average of 3.1 per batch) were established by them.
This figure is below the target of five per batch set when extrapolated in
terms of the total population of the trainee-graduate. However, in terms of
the total number of respondents engaged in business after the program, the
target set has been surpassed, the figure having stood at 117 or 40% of total
number of respondents. Significant is the total employment generated by the
business. Results show that employment generation rate is 2.8%.



- 55 -
ANNEX A
Page 23 of 44
TabLe 3.1: SUMMARY OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS FOR EDTP IMPLEMENTORS
DATE                                    NO. OF
TITLE                  CONDUCTED      ORGANIZER/VENUE          PARTICIPANTS
NMYC EDP Seminar-Workshop       5/87   University of the                27
Philippines-Institute of
Small Scale Industries
(UP- ISSI)
Training on the Identifica-     1/88   Management Systems                5
tion and SeLection of                   InternationaL (MSI)
Entrepreneurs
Entrepreneurship Workshop      1-2/88   MSI                              a
Training of Trainors Course    3/88    UP-ISSI                           5
for the DeveLopment of Cottage,
SmaLL and Mediums Enterprise
Training Methodology Course    7/88   NMYC                               8
OccupationaL Data and          8-9/88   StatisticaL Research Center      2
Computer Training Program
International Conference on    8/88    ManiLa                            1
Women Entrepreneurship
Basic Community Organizing     12/88   PBSP                            25
Cum Enterprise Development
and Promotion Training
Entrepreneurship Development   1-3/89   Entrepreneurship Development     4
Program                                 Institute of India, Gujarat,
India
In 1989 the NMYC EDT Program was included in the DOLE Integrated
Livelihood Program. With this arrangement NMYC EDT expands its clientele
serving the livelihood training requirements of DILP participating agencies.
Likewise, it provided its clientele access to a wider range of small business
financing options available through the DILP financing programs. Designated
as the lead training agency both for staff and client development, NMYC geared
towards a full blast implementation of the program for all fourteen (14)
regions.
From the period 1987-1989, a total of 3,187 were trained and as a
result, 455 microenterprises were established all over the country (Table
3.2). In terms of cost, an average amount of P12,465 per batch have been
derived within a 3 year period of implementation of the EDTP (Table 3.3).



- 56 -
ANNEX A
Page 24 of 44
Table 3.2: NUMBER OF GRADUATES AND
MICROENTERPRISES ESTABLISHED
I          1987         1          1988          '          1989
REGION! GRADUATES IENTERPRISESI GRADUATES 1ENTERPRISES1 GRADUATES IENTERPRISES
I     '    49           10    '   137    '    25    i   177    '          11
I   I      -    I      .    I~~         ~ -    72
JJJ I        -    I      -          87           24         125            -
IV                I      -    I                   -          37~ 
V           96          43          235          87         207            -
VI          47           5          195           -          46    I       -
Vil          -            -         105          10          122           6
Vill       105          25            -    I      -          50            5
IX           -           -          50    ,                 154
x          123          61          228          42         248            -
xi          36    |     10    i   104            11          51            5
xii               I                                          54  I - I   
CAR          -                                               49  - II     
NCR   !    38    !      18          146    I    51    I    14    I         -
-=s5sS==- --- -            - --- -    - --- ---m--== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = s- as----s - -S Ss
TOTAL      494    I   172         1,287         250       1,406    1    27
Tablet 3.3:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
1987           '            1988                         1989
RtEGION ---- ----------s-=--s=--=--.U---==--s8---------U-----UUU----3--------- U-U----.---  g1   GRAND TOTAL
INO. OF BATCHESIPROJECT COSTINO. OF BATCHESIPROJECT COSTIINO. OF BATCHESIPROJECT COSTI
I            2        P  46,600.00'       6       aP  78,000.00       8         P  70,000.00   P  194,600.00
11           -       I      -      I      -                  I        8 a          90,000.001      90,000.00
111                                4            54,000.00       9            72,000.00      126,000.00
IV    |      --                                                       4        I  47,000.001       47,000.00
v            4           77106.30         8          100,000.00        8           78,000.00'     255,106.30
VI           2           49,600.00,       6           78,000.00        7           63,000.00'      190,600.00
Vil   I              |      -             4       '  52,000.00         5           39,000.00'      91,000.00
ViII         4           81,84U.001       -            1,000.00        5       I  43,000.00        125,840.00
IX           -              -             2           23,000.00       6            45,000.001      68,000.00
x            5           79,692.00       8a          101,000.00       10           94,000.00      274,692.00
Xi           -           55,500.00       4           52,000.001      3            29,000.001      136,500.00
Xl l                                                                  4            U,000.00        44,000.00
CAR                                I                            1 _    4           U,000.00        U,000.00
NCR          .           48,500.00!       6           75,000.00       9            72,000.00      195,500.00
TOTAL       17        p 438,838.301      48       |P 614,000.00I     90        IP 830,000.001  P1,882,838.30
* Project Cost * Operating Cost + TravelLing Expenses
3.2    COMMUNITY TRAINING CENTERS
To help develop the rural areas through the enhancement of productivity
and employability of the unemployed segments of the labor force in the
countryside particularly the out-of-school youth and the unemployed, the CTC
concept was designed and implemented in 1987. It seeks to provide relevant
and quality skills training programs that will truly address the established



- 57 -
ANNEX A
Page 25 of 44
training needs of specific target groups in the community in relation to the
opportunities, resources and technologies that abound in the area.
Training programs/courses offered under the CTC project were broadly
classified as either basic industrial courses or cottage industry/livelihood
courses such as: 1) Handicrafts; 2) Food Trades; 3) Garments Trade; 4) Shelter
Trades; 5) Rural Electrical/ Electronics Trade; 6) Small Engine Trades; and 7)
Farm Implements Production Trades.
The promotion of employment is the ultimate goal of the Project. To
achieve this end, the Entrepreneurship Development Training (EDT) for the
development of potential entrepreneurs among the CTC graduates, and the
Placement Assistance Center (PLACER) for the referral/placement of graduates
bound for wage-employment have been linked up with the CTC.
In 1987, 24 CTCs were established with 1,769 participants trained in
different training skills. In 1988, 39 CTCs were added up and had 12,863
trainees/graduates and in the following year, 12 more were put up. (Table 3.4
and 3.4a) This program had been very successful with the active participation
of the local governments and NGOs. Since its inception in 1987, the CTC
Project had already produced 27,820 participants trained in different basic
Industrial and Cottage/Livelihood Skills (Table 3.4b).
TabLe 3.4: NUMBER OF CTCs ESTABLISHED
AND OPERATIONAL
NUMBER OF CTCs ESTABLISHED PER YEAR
REGION  z=====                  ==.   TOTAL
1987       1988    1   1989    1   1990    I
================================== === ==z=ss=z  ===s====-==
I     |    1       2       1      12       16
II    |    1       3       1       6       11
I1I   t    1       3       2      18       24
IV        3        5       2      25       35
V          3       2       1       15      21
VI         1       3       1       6       11
VII        2       2       .       11       15
VIII       2       3       1       9       15
IX         2       3       -       5       10
X          2       4       1       6        13
XI         2       3       -       6        11
XII        2       3              11       16
CAR                3 3     2       4        9
NCR        2                       0-   -  I   OI  2
TOTAL    1  24    1  39    1  12  134    |  209
==================================== === =====-===s-==s=s=zuu



- 58 -
ANNEX A
Page 26 of 44
Table 3.4a: LIST OF ORIGINAL & NEW/EXTENSION SITES
BY REGION/PROVINCE
REGION/PROVINCE            ORIGINAL SITE        DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT       TRANSFERRED           EXPANDED
1. Abra                         Tayum                   April 21, 1988
2.  Benguet                     Itogon                  July 27, 1988
3.  Ifugao                      Kiangan                 April 18, 1989
4.  Kalinga-Apayao              Dagupan                 June 16, 1988
5.  Mountain Province           Besao                   April 19, 1989
REGION I
1.  Ilocos Norte                San Nicolas             Septeaber 19, 1988
2.  Ilocos Sur                  Candon                  June 16, 1988            Sta. Maria
3.  La Union                    Tubao                   Aprit 17, 1989
4.  Pangasinan                  Alaminos                August 5, 1987           Mangaldan
REGION II
1.  Batanes                     Basco                   March 14, 1989
2.  Cagayan                     Camalaniugan            May 20, 1988             Gattaran
3.  Isabela                     Roxas                   August 3, 1987                           Ramon
4.  Nueva Vizcaya               Bagabag                 June 16, 1988
5.  Quirino                     Naddeta                 JuLy 11, 1988
REGION III
1.  Bataan                      Dinalupihan             May 31, 1988             Orion
2.  BuLacan                     Sapang Palay            May 1988
3.  Nueva Ecija                 Palawan City            March 7, 1988
4.  Pampanga                    Porak                   March 15, 1989
S.  Tarlac                      San MigueL              September 4, 1987        Moncada
6.  Zambales                    Cabangan                February 15, 1989
REGION IV
1.  Batangas                    Calatagan               September 14, 1989                      Mabini
2.  Cavite                      Bacoor                  October 19, 1987
3.  Laguna                      Lufban                  April 1989
4.  Marinduque                  Torrijoe                May 3, 1988
5.  Occidental Mindoro          San Jose                July 9, 1988
6.  Oriental Mindoro            Victoria                September 8, 1988        Pola
7.  PaLawan                     Brook's Point           August 1, 1988
. Quezon                        Lopez                   June 16, 1988
9. Romblon                      Odiongan                November 14, 1988
10. Aurora                      Ma. Aurora              May 1988
REGION V
1. Albay                        Ligao                   August 10, 1987
2. Camarines Sur                Mercedes                May 1989
3.  Camarines Norte             Baao                    October 12, 1987
4. Catanduanes                  Virac                   June 27, 1988                         Caramoran, Baras
Viga (Catanduanes)
5.  Masbate                     Masbate                 November 24, 1987
6.  Sorsogon                    Pilar                   May 4, 1988
REGION VI
1. Aktan                        Numancia                may 9, 1988              Makato
2.  Antique                     Barbaza                 May 11, 1988
3. Capiz                        Pree. Roxas             July 23, 1987
4.  Iloilto                     Sara                    July 4, 1988
5.  Negros Occidental           Murcia                  May 8, 1989
REGION VIll
1. Bohol                        Cortes                  November 5, 1987         Calape
2. Cebu                         Carcar                  September 18, 1987       Balamban, San Fernando
3.  Negros Oriental             Tayasan                 April 30, 1988
4.  Siquijor                    Siguijor                September 26, 1988



- 59 -
ANNEX A
Page 27 of 44
REGION/PROVINCE            ORIGINAL SITE        DATE OF ESTABLISHMIENT      TRANSFERRED           EXPANDED
REGION VIll
1.  Biliran                     Biliran                 July 11, 1988
2.  Leyte                       Burauen                 November 23, 1987
3.  Southern Leyte              llaasin                 May 13, 1988
4.  Eastern Samar               Llorente                June 12, 1988
5.  Northern Samar              Pambtujan               ApriL 7, 1989
6. Western Samar                Catbalogan              December 13, 1987
REGIOli IX
1. Basilan                      Lamitan                 Septeimber 17, 1987
2.  Sulu                        Jolo                    June 27, 1988
3.  Tawi-Tawi                   Bongao                  August 10, 1988
4.  Zamboanga del Norte         Manukan                 July 31, 1987
5.  Zamboanga del Sur           Ipil                    July 13, 1988
REGION X
1.  Agusan del Norte            Cabadbaran              November 1987            Naslpit
2.  Agusan del Sur              San Francisco           may 17, 1988
3.  Bukidnon                    Maramag                 August 18, 1987          Manolo Fortich
4.  Camiguin                    Nambaaao                September 1988           Sagay
5. Misamis Occidental           Osamis City             June 27, 1988            Oroquieta City
6. Misamis Oriental             Claveria                April 25, 1989
7. Surigao del Norte            Libjo                   June 20, 1988
REGION XI
1.  Davao del  torte            Carmen                  August 19, 1987
2.  Davao del Sur               Malalag                 November 23, 1987        Kiblawan
3.  Davao Oriental              San Isidro              June 17, 1988            Lupon
4.  South Cotabato              Malapatan               June 28, 1988            Sto. Nlno       Tantangan
5. Surigao del Sur              Cagwait                 July 1, 1988
REGION XII
1.  Lanao del Norte             Tubod                   August 1, 1988
2.  Lanao del Sur               Lubatan                 July 21, 1988
3.  Maguindanao                 Sultan Kudarat          August 1987              Parang          Dinaig
4.  North Cotabato              Pikit                   May 2, 1988                              Makilala
5. Sultan Kudarat               Esperanza/              August 7, 1987           Isulan
Bagumbayan              September 5, 1988
NCR
1.  Rizal                       Antipoto                August 17, 1987
Tanay                  October 26, 1987
Table 3.4b: CTC OUTPUTS/GRADUATES
END OF 3RD QUARTER
REGION="w I                                -ZUUU3333UUUUU33UUUUUEUUUUUUUUUUUUUU U ! TOTAL  1 1987   1988   1989  1990
I     '    70'    435             579   '3,694   1   4,778
II         139        914         867      3,237         5,157
III         49     1423           779      8,677         9,928
IV    ,   209   , 1,496   , 1,581   , 10,232 ,  13,518
V     j    55   j 955   j1,163   j5,808                  7,981
VI          41         734        892      5,548         7,215
VII        155         836        717      3,070   '   4,778
VIII        25       1,235        881       2,739        4,880
IX         451      1,287       1 ,205     1 767         4,710
X          181       1,681      1,355       2,921        6,138
XI          76         876        753       3,717        5,422
XII         98         976      1,299      3,451         5,824
CAR          -        482         598   1 4,089          5,169
NCR        221         580   1   439   1 3,713   1   4,953
TOTAL    1,770   1 12,910   1 13,108   1 62,663   1  90,451
3333333u3333eamu3ssU3aU3s3u333ss33333333333Z33333x3333u5-u33s3a3



- 60 -
ANNEX A
Page 28 of 44
Of the 75 CTCs established during 1987-1989, a total of 24 CTCs have
already transferred/expanded from their original sites. For the year 1988, 6
CTCs moved out from their original sites and transferred to other sites, while
12 others did the same in 1989. Likewise, in 1989, 10 CTCs opted to extend
their services from their original sites to other municipalities.
About 55% of total CTC graduates were found to be employed after
training as compared to some 33% for the traditional Community Training
Programs (CTPs). Meanwhile, the absorption rate was even higher at 62.28% for
CTC graduates compared to only 44.26% for CTP graduates. In terms of skills
utilization, about 43% of CTC graduates were reportedly able to utilize
directly the skills acquired from training in their jobs compared to only
30.47% of the CTP graduates.
4.    SPECIAL PROGRAMS
4.1   TRAINING CONTRACT SCHEME
The development of human resources is the joint responsibility of
government and industry. But government with all its varied concerns
competing for scarce resources, can only achieve so much in education and
manpower development. Industry therefore has to take part in the burden of
training the labor force as a matter of necessity and even justice, because in
the final analysis industry is a principal beneficiary of manpower
development. It is on this premise that the Training Contract Scheme has
evolved.
The Training Contract Scheme is basically a partnership contract for
maximizing social and industrial profits through higher productivity. Under
this mechanism, the Government thru the NMYC enters into a contract with a
firm or a training institution for the training of people and agrees to pay
back the latter part of the training cost on the average, 70% of direct
training costs. The general idea is to develop a ready pool of productive
manpower by upgrading the skills that are in short supply and providing those
who will join the labor force with the skills that will be needed by the
different sectors of the economy. This general objective is more precisely
defined to include:
1.    assistance to small-and medium-scale industries in
providing for their training needs;
2.    improvement of the quality of training on the basic
upgrading and supervisory levels; and
3.    encouragement of the private sector to initiate or
contribute to the manpower efforts of the government.
The heavy bias in favor of small-and medium-scale industries was evident
in the policies governing the implementation of the scheme. Although
qualified firms can claim subsidies ranging from 50-70 percent of training
consists, the rules prescribed a schedule of subsidies which provided higher
rates for small-and medium-scale enterprises as well as associations of small



- 61 -
ANNEX A
Page 29 of 44
business. And while larger local enterprises with two hundred (200) employees
or more and a capitalization amounting to PIO million or more can enjoy lower
subsidies, multinational companies qualified only if at least 20 percent of
their trainees come from small firms or are apprentices or out-of-school
youth.
The levels of training covered by the TCS included (1) basic skills
training; (2) skills upgrading; (3) supervisory; (4)
trainors training; and (5) technical programs for the following priority
industrial sub-sectors:
1.    Construction
2.    Automotive
3.    Hotel and Restaurant
4.    Garments
5.    Metals and Engineering
6.    Shoes and Leathergoods
7.    Wood Products
8.    Power, Electricity, Water and Gas
9.    Land Transportation
10.   Coal Mining
11.   Printing
These eleven (11) sub-sectors were later expanded to include Communication and
Agro-Industries in response to the demands of these growing sectors.
Eventually garments was also expanded to cover textiles.
From 1982-1990, the total number of workers trained under the TCS was
126,051 or 65Z more than the original target which is 76,150 per Appraisal.
Table 4.1 shows the actual number of graduates vis-a-vis targets. When the
Project was restructured,
Table 4.1: NUMBER OF WORKERS TRAINED
YEAR    |    TARGET    |    OUTPUT
1982    I      1,000    j         932
1983    j      5,000    I       7,996
1984    I     10,000    I      10,211
1985    I     15,000    I      18,279
1986    I     15,000    I      11,407
1987    I    21,000    I    20,599
1988          21,000    I    20,789
1989    I    21,000    I    20,181
1990    j     15,000    I      15,657
TOTAL       l                l    126,051
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___-____



- 62 -
ANNEX A
Page 30 of 44
the target were increased to 103,000. In terms of training by level, the
biggest number registered was on the upgrading of workers representing 35.88%,
followed by supervisors training with 27,524 trained or 23.43%. Quite a
number of trainors were likewise trained under the TCS (22,131 or 18.84%)
which in the long run would be beneficial to industry because of the
multiplier effect. Table 4.2 shows the total number of workers trained by
level of training.
Table 4.2: NUMBER OF WORKERS TRAINED BY LEVEL OF TRAINING
LEVEL   @ 1982  1983 1 1984  1985 | 1986 @ 1987 1 1988 1 1989 | 1990 ITOTAL
BASIC            518  2,075  3,059  3,003  1,121 1 4,105  5,229 ' 4,519  123,629
UPGRADING        389  1 976  3,226  6,159  4,327 | 7,444  7,979  7,170  8,260 46,930
SUPERVISORY   |   25' 3,945 |1325  1,866  1,146' 6 "   4,826  4,709  6,262 30,745
TECHNICAL TRAINING                                303    88   790  1,135 2,616
TRAINORS TRAINING !   -  - ! 2,601 1 7,251 1 4,813  2   2,1367 I 2,993 1  22,131
TOTAL   1  932  7,996 1 10,211 1 18,279  11,407 1 20,599 1 20,789 1 20,181 1 15,657 126,051
4.2   PLACEMENT ASSISTANCE CENTER (PLACER)
PLACER was designed to support NMYC's training function and thus,
institute a more aggressive role in the promotion of employment. The system
intended to evolve a feasible mechanism to direct its training efforts to the
highly employable skills within the industry and included labor market
information the inputs of which are vital to the re-planning processes and
placement assistance, counseling and accreditation services to ensure the
proper matching of the right person to the right job.
PLACER established an integrated manpower information and placement
services network in strategic growth centers of the country and asked multi-
sectoral participation in generating employment information opportunities. It
began developing a workable strategy of matching job requirements to available
qualified manpower and sustaining high level interest and support for the
center employment services among industry/business establishments operating
within its area of concern.
It offers the following services:
o     information on local manpower demand;
o     competency assessment testing;
o     pre-employment counseling/orientation;
o    manpower pooling;
o     referral for re-training/upgrading or trade testing;
o    placement to short-term employment;
o    placement to long-term employment.
This Project which started in 1987 modestly accomplished its planned
targets. Despite the not so healthy situation prevailing in the economy, the
network of PLACERs established nationwide has delivered to the NMYC graduates



- 63 -
ANNEX A
Page 31 of 44
the services it has aimed to deliver. The initial year (1987) was largely
devoted to the development and installation of the system, staff development
and establishment of linkages with the business community and massive
promotion. The figures below (see Table 4.8) depict the extent of the
placement effort of the Project from 1987-1989.
Table 4.3: JOB PLACEMENTS
YEAR     ANNUAL TARGET      ACTUAL OUTPUT       PERCENTAGE (%)
W_W_ _ ____= ----------_ __ __ s_ _e              =s = W=      = -- --- -_- -  E---  -    -_--- = - - -
1987        13,333             12,137            91% of the target met
1988        17,766             14,458            81% of the target met
1989        18,300             16,293            892 of the target met
1990        17,000             21,235           125% of the target met
4.3   ENTERPRISE-BASED TRAINING SYSTEM (EBTS)
The EBTS envisioned to produce skilled trainees/workers and provide the
private sector with an appropriate matching of skills supply with their job
requirements. Considered as an alternative employment promotion scheme, this
component has developed a workable scheme similar to the dual system of
vocational training applied in countries such as the Federal Republic of
Germany, Thailand and Austria.
The EBTS was an alternative training scheme which utilized a dual system
type of training approach to replace the current skills development system of
training. The approach involved in-center and in-company training directed
towards the training of workers in the industry.
The initial activities of EBTS involved the pilot testing of the scheme
for the printing sector. After a series of consultations with the leaders of
the sector wherein critical skills were identified, a curriculum was designed
for four (4) occupational titles in the Printing Industry and was endorsed by
the Printing Industry Board Foundation, Inc. (PIBFI). Simultaneously, the
Technological Institute of the Philippines was tapped for the in-center
training portion of the Project thru a Memorandum of Agreement.
The upgrading training of the first batch of 32 trainees have been
temporarily deferred pending some technical details to be looked into. The
system adapted for the Pilot Phase for EBTS is shown in Table 4.4.



- 64 -
ANNEX A
Page 32 of 44
Table 4.4: EBTS PILOT PHASE PROGRAM
------------- ------------ ------------------------__________________________
BATCH/TRAINEES                     PROGRAM                 NO. OF MONTHS
1.  First Batch of 32       1.1  In-center Training Position         2 months
Graduates (Upgrading)   1.2  In-company Training Position        2 months
1.3  In-center Training Position        2 months
1.4  In-company Training Position       2 months
1.5  In-center Training Position        2 months
1.6  In-company Training Position       2 months
1.7  Trade Test                         1 month
1.8  Evaluation                         1 month
4.4   GARMENTS INDUSTRY TRAINING PROGRAM (GITP)
As the second highest dollar earner with an export value rising from
$566M in 1983 to $1.1B in 1987, the Garments Industry, being a labor-intensive
industry had to undertake further manpower skills training of its present and
future workforce to realize its target of $2B in 1992. The Garments Industry,
however, expressed apprehension over its capability to singlehandedly acquire
its manpower requirements for the next five years.
Subsequently, the Department of Labor and Employment, specifically the
National Manpower and Youth Council, the Department of Trade and
Industry/Garments and Textile Export Board, and the Board of Investments have
been identified and instructed to provide all the assistance to enable the
Garments Industry to realize its target. Joining these government
instrumentalities were the Garments Business Association of the Philippines
and the Confederation of Garments Exporters of the Philippines. Thus, the
Garments Industry Training Program was established in 1988 which was managed
by the NMYC and assisted by an advisory board composed of representatives from
GTEB, GBAP, CONGEP, BOI and the ATIBFI.
To be able to train 50% of the targeted trainees which is 16,200
annually the program was based on a curriculum of 120 hours or 3 week machine
item and the conduct of training in one shift for five days a week. Capacity
can be readily expanded by training in 2 shifts. Presently, there is a small
number of training centers offering 88 training machines for industrial
sewing. Hence, the project required 334 additional basic machines. The
trainee machine ratio was one machine per trainee and basic machines
complemented by one set of auxiliary machines per Center. To be able to train
6,500 workers in-center at a ratio of 1 trainor per 10 trainees, 40 trainors
were required. These were recruited from industry and underwent trainors
training.
Recruitments were done through the garment firms, socio-civic
organizations and the local governments and through direct announcements of
the training centers. All applicants and nominees had to undergo interview



- 65 -
ANNEX A
Page 33 of 44
and aptitude and motor coordination tests administered by training center
personnel. Table 4.5 reflects the number of trainees/trainors trained since
GITP was established.
The GITP was likewise provided with 130 household sewing machines and
405 high speed sewing machines distributed in the Central Office and in
regions where garments is a predominant industry.
Table 4.5: NUMBER OF TRAINEES/TRAINORS
TRAINED UNDER GITP
1     1988    I    1989    I       1990
LEVEL/PROGRAM      I             j_-_ _--       I ---     ----
ITARGETIOUTPUTITARGETIOUTPUTITARGETIOUTPUT
Zero Skills             I 2,2601 1,7021 6,5001 4,2901 6,5001 5,107
Trainors Training       I  2381   2281   1001    661  1001    55
____ ___ ---   =---- 5 ----_ ----- =----=----   -- -- --  ----_ __l __ -------=
4.5   INDUSTRY SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (ISDP)
Providing assistance to industries to make their workforce highly
productive and capable of responding to emerging technology was the reason for
the creation of ISDP. The ISDP, provided a range of training packages
initially to a number of industry sectors deemed critical to the nation's
industrialization process. The sectors covered were computer software,
automotive, film industry, garments, gifts and housewares including ceramics.
Started in July 1989, the Project graduated a total of 193 trainees from
nine programs. As an initial step in carrying out the Project, linkages with
various industry associations were forged. The implementation of the programs
was carried out by these industry associations with NMYC sharing in the actual
cost incurred in training. It had linked with thirteen (13) Industrial
Associations.
SECTOR                GRADUATES
Apparel                          36
Computer Software                12
Filmmaking                       42
Automotive                       14
Ceramics                         59
Gifts and Housewares             30
TOTAL                           193



- 66 -
ANNEX A
Page 34 of 44
5.  EVALUATION
Thru the assistance of the Project, manpower training evaluation
activities have evolved into a more comprehensive approach by developing
and/or adapting models on data retrieval/dissemination and systems of
evaluating training effectiveness. This were in line with the call to come up
with an effective system of monitoring and evaluating training to enable NMYC
to implement a low-cost scheme to measure internal and external outcomes of
training.
Before the Project was restructured, evaluation activities were merely
focused on the Training Contract Scheme, however, since the initial study was
more on the administrative aspect of the scheme, a more comprehensive impact
evaluation was required. This was eventually completed in 1990. When new
directions were set in 1986, this component was conceived to support all
activities from planning to post evaluation. It entailed the development of a
framework for the periodic but sustained evaluation of existing training
programs and built into the system. The results of these studies shall be the
major determinants of future policy directions.
The following were the activities under this component from 1983 to
1990.
(i)   Training Contract Scheme Evaluation (TCS Process
Evaluation). The evaluation was conducted thru the
assistance of a consultancy group, LEVERAGE INTERNATIONAL. The
study focused on the administrative delivery system of the TCS.
These were considered as vital inputs for the Development of a
Revised Handbook, a Manual for Review and Processing of TCS
Proposals, and an Operational Manual for the continuing evaluation
of the scheme. It was completed in March 1984.
TCS Impact Evaluation. This Project was envisioned to gauge the
effects of the Training Contracts Scheme on firm-based training.
Specifically, the study zeroed-in on the beneficiary firm as well
as the benefits accruing to the trainees/graduates. The study
covered TCS 1985-1987 using primary and secondary data thru survey
questionnaires. A consulting group ICBS, was hired for the
project. The Project was completed in June 1990.
(ii)    Framework for NMYC Evaluation System.  Completed in 1987,
the Framework sought to organize, direct and coordinate
all evaluation activities of the Agency thru the
Evaluation Division as the central body.
(iii)    Out-of-School Youth (OSY) Monitoring System.  Done via a
rider questionnaire in one of the Integrated Survey of
Households quarterly surveys in coordination with the
National Statistics Office, it was intended to provide a
continuing source of information on the basic demographic



- 67 -
ANNEX A
Page 35 of 44
and socio-economic data on the OSY for planning and
programming purposes of the Council. The survey was
conducted in January 1988 and a Monograph for the 1988
survey was printed. The generation of out-of-school youth data
has been institutionalized at no cost to NMYC starting 1989 when
the second survey was done (June 1989).
(iv)    Monitoring System on Em2loyment/Absorption Status of Basic and
Livelihood Training Program Graduates. This absorption study was
conceptualized in late 1986 to assess the effectiveness of NMYC
training in the Basic Skills and Livelihood Programs using
employment rate, absorption rate and skills utilization rate as
indicators. Enumerators were hired to administer questionnaires
to sample trainees-graduates nationwide. Preliminary findings
covering first semester graduates in 1987 were completed while
inputting of data for the second semester likewise done.
(v)   Directory of Training Institutions.  To present a comprehensive
profile of the various training institutions involved in
vocational/technical training nationwide, a draft print-out of the
directory was completed after a survey conducted in April 1989.
6.    OTHER COMPONENTS
When the Project was restructured in 1986, there were several components
which were either deprioritized, expanded or completed. This does not mean,
however, that NMYC have ceased to provide attention on these matters but the
new directions set then explicitly required a review of all programs as they
related to national priorities.
6.1   CORPORATE PLANNING
In order to improve NMYC's capacity to manage industrial training at the
national level, its organization and management system would be evaluated to
determine communication weaknesses and overlapping of functions. Thru the
Project, a new structure and identification of positions and descriptions
shall be formulated. In 1982, a Project Team on Corporate Planning was
created to prepare the master plan for the implementation of the component.
Subsequently, six (6) Corporate Planning Workshops were conducted among the
various key offices/departments of NMYC from the period 1982-1985. The
workshops were intended to institutionalize corporate planning in the Agency,
thereby achieving a more efficient, economical and effective utilization of
the Agency's resources integrated into a single corporate philosophy and
identity. As a result, a Corporate Planning and Agency Corporate
Philosophy handbook entitled "This is NMYC" and "A Look To The Future" was
developed and published.
Thus, within that period, the NMYC structure was reorganized.
Highlighting the reorganization was the creation of an Office of Industry
Manpower Development (OIMD), later renamed Industry Manpower Office (IMO) to



- 68 -
ANNEX A
Page 36 of 44
provide services to and implement training incentive packages for industry.
In 1986, another office was created, the Institute of Vocational Training
Development (IVTD), later renamed the National Institute of Skills Development
(NISD) to handle Training Technology Development.
The change of Government in 1986 necessitated a second look on the
Agency's structure in relation to its mandate/mission. The Corporate Planning
workshops were discontinued to give way to a more comprehensive agency plan as
it related to new directions set. Consequently, the Agency embarked on a
complete corporate assessment, including an organizational diagnosis that
would suit an envisioned national policy on Technical and Vocational Education
and Training.
6.2   MANPOWER PLANNING
The basic objective of this component was to improve the manpower
planning capability of the Agency thru the best methods of collecting data on
the existing stock of skilled manpower, the installation of a system for the
continuous assessment of training needs, and devising means of channelling
information to all training agencies for use in their planning exercises.
When the Project was restructured, the components of manpower planning and
evaluation were directed to complement each other, thereby, inputs from both
components have been coordinated. Nevertheless, the Project Team on Manpower
Planning have conducted several studies and researches some of which were
independent of the other component. The following were the activities done
from the period 1982-1989.
(i)   In October 1983, a Master Plan to implement the components on the
Manpower Planning and Management Information System/Data Base was developed
thru a consultancy contract (Phase I) with UPecon Foundation (UPecon F). The
consultants assisted in modifying and eventual adaptation of the Simulation
Model Project, a computer-based model designed by the WB and used for the
Saudi Arabia Manpower Projections. The technical assistance was completed in
March 1984 with the following expanded models for manpower forecasting:(a)
classification of production process workers for overseas employment on a 22 x
28 matrix for 1975-1980; (b) validation of attrition rates for 28 occupations
and consideration of the data assumptions and methodologies in computation.
(ii) In 1985, Phase II of the contract with UPecon F was awarded. The
objective of the program was to support the learning experience of the NMYC
Staff by upgrading their technical competence and professional experience in
the areas of manpower planning, manpower research development and training
evaluation. subsequently, 70 manpower planners were trained in the fields of
basic statistics and economics.
(iii) Beginning 1983, 11 manpower sector specific plans were completed for
various identified priority sections of industries. Two plans, the Sector
Specific Plan for construction 1982-1985 and Sector Specific Plan for Metals
and Engineering 1982-1985 were published and distributed.



- 69 -
ANNEX A
Page 37 of 44
(iv)  An Occupational Data and Computer Training Profram was conducted in
August-September 1988 to provide NMYC Staff as well as manpower planners from
other agencies with the necessary tools and techniques in the processing and
analysis of occupational data and in the application of computer-based
methods.
(v)   In November 1989, a Manpower Planning and Policy Seminar-Workshop was
likewise conducted. The object of the workshop was to train Manpower Planners
from both the NMYC Secretariat and member agencies in the utilization of
eclectic manpower approaches within the council type institutional framework.
(vi) A vital component of the Institutionalized Approach to Manpower Planning
(IAMP), the Occupational Data for Educators and Trainors (ODET 1988) was
completed in April 1989 in cooperation with the National Statistics Office.
This publication sought to institutionalize the systematic flow of data
information necessary for manpower planning and target-setting purposes.
6.3   MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS)/DATA BASE
Under the component, electronic data processing services were introduced
to the Agency to increase and rationalize the information storage and
retrieval capacity of NMYC. A Master Plan for the implementation of the
component was drawn in 1985 with the assistance of two (2) local consultancy
firms, UPecon F and Carlos J. Valdez. The MIS had three (3) sub-components
identified namely (i) pre-computerization stage; (ii) computerization stage;
and (iii) Human Resources Bibliographic System (HRBIS). As an initial step
towards the computerization of management information and the establishment of
the network, the computerization of the assessment criteria for NMYC's Best
RMDO and Best RMTC contests were implemented. Subsequently, the following
sub-components were likewise designed/implemented.
(a)   Training Contract Scheme
(i)   input-output requirements of the system documented
(ii) application of statistical measures in the pre-test
and post-test result of each trainee
(iii) computer programs developed for the National Summary
of Training Contracts; Sectoral Summary of Training
Contracts; and Terminal Evaluation
(b)   Trade Skills Standards
(i)   coding scheme for data items developed
(ii) design of module on a per course basis drafted
(c)   Best RMDO/RMTC Contest Computer Program
(d)   Data Bank of NMYC Training Program/Clientele Profile
(e)   Personnel Management Information System (Staff Development Grants)



- 70 -
ANNEX A
Page 38 of 44
(f)   Materials Management
Henceforth, a series of staff development programs were conducted
beginning in 1983 on systems analysis, DBase II System, computer applications
etc. to familiarize and introduce NMYC personnel on electronic data process-
ing. To support the hardware requirements, micro-computers were purchased.
As of 1990, a total of 183 units at 40 and 20 megabytes were purchased
including 131 letter quality printers. At present, the NMYC with the
assistance of the National Computer Center, is embarking on the design of an
Agency-wide computer configuration and Information System Plan.
6.4   MOBILE TRAINING SCHEME FOR THE GARMENTS INDUSTRY
It was envisioned during Appraisal that the most efficient means of
training delivery were the use of mobile units for the garments industry due
to the dispersion of firms and the desire of employers to conduct training on
factory premises. These units were conceived to comprise equipment, trailers
and traction units. However, when the GITP was established in 1986, the
concept had to be momentarily abandoned in favor of a more comprehensive and
systematic training program for the industry. (Refer to Item 4.4)
6.5  APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
The Project intended to improve the apprentice training system imple-
mented by the then Ministry of Labor and Employment in 1982 by restructuring
it to suit present day requirements of industries. As an initial step to
strengthen the program, a National Congress on Apprenticeship and the
Batarisan In-Plant Training Program was held in October 1982 at the Philippine
International Convention Center (PICC) to tackle the issues and problems
encountered by government, management and trainees in the implementation of
the program. Consequently, in 1984, a framework for the assessment of the
Apprenticeship/Batarisan programs were drawn up under the joint effort of NMYC
and the newly created Bureau of Local Employment (BLE) of the Ministry of
Labor and Employment. The NMYC and the Kabataang Barangay (KB) through the
Batarisan In-Plant Training Program have been implemented for the out-of-
school youth.
In 1986, the Batarisan program under a new government was discontinued.
NMYC in cooperation with the private industries and other training institu-
tions began to restudy the Apprenticeship Program of the Philippines and
attempted to pilot various models such as the Dual System patterned after that
of Germany.
6.6   HOTEL AND RESTAURANT INDUSTRY
The Project envisioned the development of an appropriate training
strategy for the Hotel and Restaurant Industry by Identifying its training
needs and structure. In November 1977 an agreement was forged between the
Kabataang Barangay and the Overseas Training Department of Ecole Hoteliere de
Lausanne of the Swiss Hotel Association to conduct a quantitative and



- 71 -
ANNEX A
Page 39 of 44
qualitative study on the actual and future needs of hotel personnel in the
country. The study entitled "Concept of Manpower Training in the Hotel and
Restaurant Industry of the Philippines" eventually became the basis of the
design of training programs under the Project in cooperation with the Hotel
and Restaurant Industry Board Foundation, Inc. (HRIBFI).
6.7   RURAL MOBILE TRAINING SCHEME
The Rural Mobile Training Scheme was originally conceived to establish
an experimental program by providing equipment for 9 units, 4 vehicles
(training vans) and a training boat. However, they were deprioritized in
favor of equipment for the RMTCs. Altho, mobile training in some areas have
already been being implemented as part of the Agency's outreach program, the
scheme regained recognition in 1986 when national directions called for a
strengthened rural employment generation program. In 1990, fourteen (14)
four-wheel drive pick-ups were purchased for each Regional Office capable of
towing trailers and transporting training equipment even to far-flung areas in
the countryside. To complement these vehicles, twenty (20) compact training
units were likewise purchased from Israel. These are training modules for
various trade areas capable of storing training equipment that can be easily
installed in trailers.
6.8   ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
For NMYC to carry out its responsibilities in the implementation of the
Vocational Training Project, a standard set of accounting procedures
applicable to the Bank was established to:
(i)   ensure adequate controls and feedbacks on the utilization
of the project funds by the various project components;
(ii) allow NMYC to accumulate detailed project costs both by expense
classification, that would satisfy the requirements of NMYC
Management, other fiscal agencies and the World Bank; and
(iii) enhance the smooth flow of work and information from the project
sites to the NMYC Central Office.
It is within this perspective that an Agreement for an Accounting and
Management Information Systems Services was forged with the Commission on
Audit in June 1982 to assist in Project implementation particularly in
financial transactions. Thus, a manual was designed to provide general
guidelines for the NMYC Project Management Unit in the implementation,
accounting and monitoring of Project activities.
The Manual consisted of three (3) volumes:
Volume I discussed the different stages of the Project in three parts:
Part One: Project Management; Part Two: Project Accounting; Part Three:
Project Monitoring and Financial Reporting System.
Volume II contained in graphical presentation of the various procedures
in the implementation/execution and monitoring stages of the Project. The



- 72 -
ANNEX A
Page 40 of 44
detailed narrative procedures and flowcharts supplemented the discussions in
Volume I of the Manual.
Volume III presented samples of the reports/statements, forms and
records, pertinent to the systems covered in Volumes I and II. Each
report/form/record has attached a sheet containing (1) purpose; (2) basis of
preparation; (3) when prepared and submitted; (4) prepared by; (5) reviewed
by; (6) distribution; and (7) guidelines for accomplishment.
6.9 ADVISORY COMMITTEES (LOCAL MANPOWER AND YOUTH COMMITTEES)
Prior to the implementation of the Project, existing Regional Manpower
Development Offices (RMDOs) already have local advisory committees known as
Local Manpower and Youth Committees (LMYCs). As each new center enters into
service under the Project, it was deemed essential to expand the composition
of the LMYCs to include local industrialists and staff members to provide a
forum for the discussion of local manpower training needs, placement problems,
course relevance, training finance and other pertinent matters in aid of
policy decision making.
The functions of the LMYCs were as follows:
(a)   Serve as the advisory body on policy issues affecting
manpower development.
(b)   Study or cause the study of the manpower situation in the
community.
(c)   Review or cause the review of manpower development efforts being
conducted in the community and determine if these are meeting the
needs as determined in the study of manpower situation.
(d)   Recommend to the proper office or agency specific measures and
activities that should be undertaken to further manpower
development in the community.
(e)   Assist the implementing office in program development
monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects to be
undertaken.
With the expanded coverage, the LMYCs were renamed the Manpower Advisory
Committees (MACs). Each MAC is composed of five to seven members - all known
community leaders who were nominated by NMYC Regional Director and appointed
by the Project Management Unit. They represented various sectors: education,
local government and socio-civic organizations.
Two (2) pilot committees were organized in 1983. The one in Iligan City
was a pilot committee for an industrial area and the other MAC organized in
Legaspi City was meant for an agro-industrial area. Five more MACs were
organized subsequently in 1984 in Bagulo City; Meycauayan, Bulacan; Binan,
Laguna; Lapu-Lapu City, Cebu; and Southern Leyte bringing into fore seven (7)
MACs organized under the Project. It was envisioned that at least one MAC for
every region be organized, but when new directions were instituted, the
Project was deferred.



- 73 -
ANNEX A
Page 41 of 44
6.10 BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SYSTEM (BEMS)
In 1983, a Project Team was created to implement this particular
component. In the same year, a framework for the operationalization of an
agency-wide BEMS was established as a result of a pilot testing of the system
in RMTC Pili. The objectives of the program were to:
(a)   set-up an effective maintenance program for all training
facilities of the NMYC including inventory;
(b)   organize a staffing pattern geared towards complementing
the preventive maintenance system;
(c)   provide adequate repair crew in cases of equipment/tools
breakdown;
(d)   procure sufficient quantity of spare parts for items
commonly replaced thereby insuring continuous operation
of major training equipment and facilities.
(e)   establish maintenance engineering training;
(f)   establish maintenance control system.
However, it was only after the Project was restructured that BEMS gained
full attention because of the rehabilitation and construction of RMTCs/PMTCs.
A sizeable amount of the Equipment Outlay was set aside to purchase vital
equipment spare parts. In 1989, twelve (12) NMYC technicians were sent to
Linz, Austria to study a computer backed maintenance system. These
technicians eventually formed a core of a comprehensive agency-wide BEMS
expected to be fully operational in 1991.
6.11  STAFF DEVELOPMENT
As indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report, a total of 29 man/years of
foreign fellowships have been granted under the Project. These fellowship
programs were intended to support the various Project Components of VTP (Table
6.1). In 1986, the staff development component was likewise reviewed and



- 74 -
ANNEX A
Page 42 of 44
Table 6.1:  FOREIGN FELLOWSHIP PROGRAMS
AS PER STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
:f===2===sss==ss=ss====s==3=ss===s===fl.u=u..sfl.sss-sssss.u=sszuu
DESCRIPTION OF PROGRAM                                    TOTAL MAN/YEARS
Organization and Management                                       2
Expansion and Reorganization                                      2
Manpower Panning and Evaluation                                   3
Systems AnaLysis                                                  2
Coqputer Science                                                  2
Equipaent Maintenance                                             2
Statistical Analysis                                              2
Manpower Guidance                                                 2
Restructuring Apprenticeship Scheme                               4
Hotel and Restaurant Training Strategy                            5
Trade Standards Development                                       1
TOTAL                                                            27
restructured to conform with the new directions set by NMYC. The Staff
Development Program for the period 1987-1989 (Table 6.la) was divided into two
(2) categories: trainors and non-trainors training both local and foreign.
It shall be noted that the program was heavy on trainors development
representing 84S of the entire program. This was attributed to the direction
of NMYC to strengthen the training capability of the RMTCs and the anticipated
needs of the new PMTCs and CTCs.
Table 6.1a: SUMMARY OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM 1987-1989
|                  O~~~~~ U T P U T
A R E A                                * **S***==*=*====-.s==.======
11987     |    1988      :    1989        TOTAL 1987-1989
st2----msssU3UUEUUUz2 Uxmamax2u3uUZ         U2U2UUUZ3U2z3EzU2UZZ
I.  TRAINORS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
InstitutionaLized Trainors Devetopment Program                 367            487            342      '      1 196
FIOREIGN                                                        47      I              I     -               -13-
1.  Training for existing RMTCs and NSTC                         15             15             15               45
2.  Training of Center Managers                                  17             17             17               51
3.  Training for Staff Trainors                          |                                                        2
TTD                                                       1                             1                2
TDD                                                       4     j        4              2                8
SSDD                                                     6               2              6               14
VGD                                              0        4     I        31             1'               8
LOCAL  UG                                                      3               446           302             1L06
1.  Training for New RMTCs                                      23             30              39               92
2.  Training for existing RMTCs and NSTC                        so              s o           106              266
3.  Training for CTCs                                            26     1       26             26               78
4.  Scholarship Training                                         32             32             32               96
5.  Training for Center Managers                                35              35             35              105
6.  Training for Staff Trainors                                  1             1               2               1
RVTP                                                     18            150             24              192
YESDEV                                                    8 t           14             24               46
CTS (Cooperative Training Scheme)                         -            26               -               26
Research and Evaluation                                   -             16              -               16
CurricuLum Development                                  59               5              -               64
SkiLls Standards             t                           10             1              13               10
Trainors DeveLopment Department                         20              17             13               50
Vocational Guidance                                       9             15              3               27



- 75 -
ANNEX A
Page 43 of 44
=================== =  = ==                  3 -33U.Z.*-. -Z.U.Uwg-SUUU..iU S-U=i=S5Uin=SUUflCSUUSUaas
,                 O~~~~~ U T P U T
A R E A                            *-------------w-==-s-w-wxx=s=-==========ss=xuxxzzzx
t1987          1988          1989       TOTAL 1987-1989
II.  NON-TRAINORS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                      j                                     '         248
FOREIGN                                              '28    '          17    '       26              7
1.  Curriculum Development                               4 1            -             1               2
2.  RVTP                                                 4              -                             4
3.  MISC                                              '3                3             -               6
4.  Cooperative Training Scheme                           1             1             1              43
5.  YESDEV                                           | 4    |          12    |       24              40
6.  Research and DeveLopment                             15             1             -              16
LOCAL                                                  1 41    j                      1x            1   77
1.  Skills Standards and Testing                        15             18                            33
2.  Curriculmn Development                               2              2                             4 -    |
3.  RVTP                                                38             14             -              52
4.  MISC                                             154    I                         -              54
5.  Research and Evaluation                             32    !         1 ,1                        34
= == ===== ====== === ================ =u=suf=Ssz===u=ssss====s=====s======  ===.=.==
From the period 1983-1990, a total of 188 NMYC key personnel and
instructors were sent abroad for foreign training mostly in North America and
Europe in various skills and specializations.  A summary of the overseas
fellowship programs conducted under the Project is shown in Table 6.2
including study tours and missions.
Table 6.2: SUMMARY OF OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIP
PROGRAM 1983-1990
TITLE OF PROGRAM                   TYPE OF      NO. OF         VENUE/LOCATION          INCLUSIVE DATES
PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS
1.   Trainors Training Program (Phase I)         Traii:ing       14    Toronto, Canada       Oct. 16-Dec. 11, 1983
2.   Management of Human Resources Dev't.    Training            20      UK                   Oct. 24-Dec. 2, 1983
3.   Trainors Training Program (Phase II)    Training            14      Toronto, Canada    Aug. 8-Nov. 9, 1984
4.   Management Training for Adninistration  Training             4      France               Sept. 23-Nov. 24, 1984
of Training Centers
5.   Instructors Training Program                Training         5      Linz, Austria        Sept. 2-Nov. 22, 1985
(Trainors Skills Training)
6.   Trainors Training Program (Phase 1II)   Training            15      Toronto, Canada    July 15-Oct. 4, 1985
7.   Trainors Training Program (Skills           Training        10       Dijon, France       Apr. 29-Jut. 20, 1985
Upgrading)
8.   Manpower PLanning and Development           Training         2      Washington D.C.,    Oct. 22-Dec. 21, 1985
Program                                                          USA/Toronto, Canada
9.   Training Center Design and Equipment    Study Tour           2      USA/Canada            Apr. 20-May 31, 1987
Procurement Program
10.  Training Center Design and Equipment    TrainIng             5    Turin, ItaLy/Geneva, Sept. 7-Oct. 16, 1986
Procurement Program                                            Swltzerland/BeLgium/
Austria
11.  Training Mission on New TechnoLogy          Study Tour       5      USA/Canada             Apr. 20-May 31, 1987
Programs                                 (Tech./
Stucdy Tour/     1      USA/Canada            June 19-July 17, 1987
Mission



- 76 -
ANNEX A
Page 44 of 44
======================== ===========5= ======s= ==                             =======-=-=Xz
TITLE OF PROGRAM                  TYPE OF      NO. OF         VENUE/LOCATION          INCLUSIVE DATES
PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS
._~~~~~~~ ssa============== =  ====s====  == =                  ====== ========.====  ====   ======ss-==
12.  Trainors Training Program (Technical    Training            5      Toronto, Canada      Sept. 26-Nov. 15,1987
Staff Training Phase IV)
Training        12     Toronto, Canada        Sept. 12-Nov. 6,1987
13.  Trainors Training Program (Technical    Training           10      Toronto, Canada        June-August, 1988
Training in new Trade Areas: P IV)
14.  Technical Staff Training                   Training        14     USA/UK               Sept. 26-Dec. 3, 1988
15.  American Vocational Association            Convention       2      UK                   Nov. 17-Dec. 3, 1988
16.  Conprehensive Career Guidance Methods   Training            4     USA                  Sept. 26-Dec. 3, 1988
and Placement
17.  Occupational Standards and Development  Training            3     USA                  Sept. 26-Dec. 3, 1988
Certification and Training Evaluation
18.  InstructionaL HateriaLs Development        Training         3      USA                 Sept. 26-Dec. 3, 1988
19.  Industry Training Schemes                  Training         4      USA                 Sept. 26-Dec. 3, 1988
20.  Hawthorn Institute of Education            Training        10      Australia           May 8-June 6, 1989
FelLowship
21.  Advance Training on Evaluation Methods  Training            a      Toronto, Canada    July 4-Sept. 4, 1989
22.  Advance Management Training                Seminar/         3      USA/Canada          June 13-18, 1989
Conference
23.  Maintenance System                         Training        12      Linz, Austria       May 8-June 30, 1989
24.  EDI World Bank Regional Seminar on         Study Tour/      1      Canada              Sept. 11-17, 1989
the Economy of Using Technology for
Education and Training
== ================================== ==== = =============zs==



- 77 -
ANNEX B
OIIIUATIOmL STIDCTU 0O
TMl ROJECT MA&ZET MIT
|DEPUTY PROJECT DIRFCTOR||
I~ ~ ~~IACA                    CII   OK         EQUIPMENT AND IPROPERTY AND
11    UNIT                               ~~~~~~~~~~UNIT      UNIT
PROJECT TEAS                      IONAL PROJECTI
[ (CENTRAL OFFICE)11              COORDINATING UNITS
(RPCUa)        14



- 78 -
ANNEX C
VOCATIONAL TRRINING PROJECT
(Loan 2200-PH)
Summary of Staffing Complement. Prolect Management Unit
1198211983119841198511986119871198811989119901
========= = ======= ==--I====    I ====  I -1=='= I ===  ======== 1= =1======
Project Director                             1      1     |     1  |     1  |     1  |     1  |     1     1 |     1
Staff                                       2 1  2 1  2 1   2 1    2 1    3 1    4 1    4       4 1
I                                             I        ----I-----I-----I--  ----  ---  I----   ----   I
Deputy Project Director/                     1     11     1 1|    1 111 11 1 1                       1
Project Manager                       I      I     I      I     I      I     I     I      I
Staff                                    1  7 |  6 1  8 |  7 |  7 1   7 1   3|  4 1    4
----------------I ---- I---- I---- I ---- I---- I ---- I---- I---- I---- 
Programs                                 1  4 1 11  110    11         7 16151415 
I -------------                       ---- I ----II----    I ---- I ---- I ---- I ---- I ---- I ---- ---
Civil. Works                             I  3 I  7 I  4 I  4 I  3            4 4    11    4 4   6 I
I -     -  -- -  -  - --  - -  -  -   ---    -      - - I- -     - - I- -     - - I- -     - - I- -  
Procurement                               13       6 1 8        8    10    11    121    81  8
I -     - --  -  - -  --  - -  -  -   ---    -     - - I- -     - - I- -     - - I- -     - - I- -  
Building and Equipment                   I     I      |      14 14 1 1
Maintenance
I -     --  - -  --  - -  --  - -  -   --   - I--  - I- -  I--  - I- -  I--  - I- -  I--  - I-  -I
Center Engineering                       I     I                   |3 1 31            I     I      I
_    _   _____-I                                 _ - _I  _   I  _-  I  _-  I -  I  - I -  -I  -   I
Finance                                  I  3 I  9 I  9 I  9 I  5  I  8    12 j 12  |11 |
I ------------- ----I--I---I--I--I--I -----I--I
Auditor                                  121   31   31   31   31   1i              21   31   31
I -     - --  -  - -  --  - -  - -    ---    -      - - I- -     - - I- -     - - I- -     - - I- -  
TOTAL                                    126    46    46    50  | 46  | 46  | 51    41     43
=s====================== = = = === a============== =======



