Document of
The World Bank                    X" L             ,1 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3378-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THY
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $24.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
August 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Peso (P = 100 centavos)
P 1.00            =   US$0.120
US$1.00           =   P 8.3
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
BLE    - Bureau of Local Employment
ILO    - International Labor Organization
MEC    - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOLE   - Ministry of Labor and Employment
MOT    - Ministry of Trade and Industry
MSSD   - Ministry of Social Services and Development
NMYC   - National Manpower and Youth Council
ONFE   - Office of Nonformal Education
PMU    - Project Management Unit
RMTC   - Regional Manpower Training Center
UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
UNIDO  - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
SMI    - Small and Medium Scale Industry
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July - April



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $24.4 million (including capitalized front-end fee of
$0.4 million)
Term:            The loan would be for a term of 20 years including 5 years
grace with interest at 11.6% and a commitment fee of 0.75%
p.a. on undisbursed amount.
Project
Description: The proposed project is an integral component of Bank
assistance in support of the Government's industrial devel-
opment program. It would support the regional diversifica-
tion strategy, address the needs of medium and small-scale
industries and broaden and strengthen the infrastructure of
the national industrial training system. In particular, it
would reorganize the structure and procedures and expand the
staff of the National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC)
and establish a system of contracting for sector specific
training in seven priority industrial and service subsectors
('between 1982 and 1986), for 76,000 employees. This would
meet 13% of the need for apprentice training, 10% of the
need for training adult workers, and 43% of supervisor
upgrading needs. Employers would participate in the
organization, financing and management of training, and a
strategy of on-the-job training would be promoted. In
addition, the trade testing and certification system would
be expanded on a national level.
The success of the proposed project depends on the employer
perception of the benefits to be derived from training
and the adequacy of the financial incentives incorporated in
the training contracts. It is expected that large and
medium-sized enterprises would be willing to participate.
Employers in the smaller enterprises may be less eager to
participate, however, because of the cost and their
unfamiliarity with the potential benefits. This risk has
been reduced by government financing of some costs,
particularly in the first years of the project, and by an
improved flow of information. Other risks relate to NMYC's
difficulties in retaining competent staff. Should key
personnel continue to seek better paying employment
elsewhere, project implementation could be impaired. Project
risk is also increased somewhat, as NMYC is undergoing
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
institutional changes and the proposed new project implemen-
tation unit will have had no experience in implementing Bank
projects. In order to minimize these risks, technical
assistance would be provided to NMYC, and the Government
would provide sufficient incentives to ensure the retention
of NMYC staff.
Estimated
Cost:                                                   Local  Foreign   Total /1
----- ($ million)…
Management of Industrial Training          0.5      2.0       2.5
Strengthening of Industrial Training  13.7          7.5      21.2
Trade Testing and Certification            0.5      2.7      3.2
Project Management Unit                    0.3     -          0.3
Total Base Cost Estimate                15.1    12.2      27.3
Physical Contingencies                     1.7      1.7       3.4
Price Contigencies                         7.4     3.2       10.6
Total Project Cost /2                  24.2    17.1       41.3
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                   -      0.4       0.4
Total Financing Requirements           24.2    17.5       41.7
Financing
Plan:
Bank                                       6.9    17.5      24.4
Goverrment                                17.3      -        17.3
Total                                  24.2    17.5       41.7
Estimated Dis-
bursement       Bank FY       FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
---------- ($ million) ---------
Annual        0.7      1.5    4.0    7.0   11.2
Cumulative   0.7       2.2    6.2   13.2   24.4
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3750b-PH (dated August 26, 1982).
/1 Figures do not add up due to rounding.
/2 Total project cost includes identifiable taxes of about US$1.4 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM4ENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $24.4 million to
help finance a vocational training project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-87 Plan" (No. 3861-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors
under SecM82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects of Poverty
in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under SecM80-919. Country data
are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated
in the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments.  Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities.  Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Coal Exploration Project which was approved
by the Executive Directors on June 15, 1982.



- 2 -
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives
the rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic,
social and regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the popu-
lation. The agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diver-
sification, and stronger linkages with processing industries. The indus-
trial strategy calls for promotion of export industries, development of
small- and medium-scale industries, regional dispersion of industrial
growth, increased efficiency of investment, and selected large-scale pro-
jects. The Plan includes social development targets in education, housing,
health, and family planning. In addition, the Plan outlines development
strategies for each of the country's 13 regions. A recently completed Food
and Nutrition Plan, which complements the Development Plan, aims at elimin-
ating malnutrition by 1990 through increased food production and nutrition
programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.5% in 1980./l
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 3 -
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains around 40%. Income distribution
continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously wealthy.
Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of poverty
reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of people,
especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe
water, basic education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable
man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands,
limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp
deterioration in the external terms of trade have put downward pressure on
real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs during
the 1970s that should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these
were implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and
will require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of
population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of
the labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s,
the agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high
proportion of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment
stagnated in the first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly
thereafter as labor-intensive export production grew. Overseas employment,
especially in the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary
income opportunity. As the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector
is limited, employment generation in manufacturing will have to increase
considerably in the 1980s.
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment
rose sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation
of capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s,
the efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determin-
ants of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.



- 4 -
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. Tne Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains
low because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not
yet attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable
land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been
logged over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment.  Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure ques-
tions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsis-
tence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expan-
sion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the
rest of the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality
of domestic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export
industries have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise
heavily protected economy.



-5-
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to accel-
erate growtlh of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manufac-
tured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines' structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependency on imported oil. The Government has not only
passed on oil price increases to consumers, but has also increased taxes
and levies on oil products with the result that domestic oil prices are
considerably above import parity. These price increases, combined with
direct conservation measures, resulted in a reduction of commercial energy
consumption in 1980 and 1981. Steps to increase and diversify domestic
energy supply have also continued and include the development of hydro-
electric, geothermal, coal, and nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum
production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of
energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted only 16% of
total commercial energy consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil
crisis", the Government is accelerating its program for domestic energy
production, but further taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed
to restrain demand.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s,
gross national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and
financing about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs
to rise by another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while
simultaneously limiting the current account deficit and the country's
reliance on foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other finan-
cial incentives affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment,
the flexibility and competitiveness of the financial system, and the
maturity of lending all needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the
Government introduced a comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest
rates are being substantially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal,
and rediscount policies are being introduced. Legislation to encourage



- 6 -
multipurpose banking has also been adopted to reduce the present excessive
specialization and fragmentation of the financial system and to increase
competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the over-
all level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going
to economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total
government expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment
equalling 6.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made
possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transporta-
tion, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban develop-
ment, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are
likely to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming
from domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes
on international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points
to 13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the
last few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the
Government and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further
expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are
needed to raise the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity
by increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to
eliminate remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the
long-term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to
30% in 1981. The current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion in 1981,
equivalent to 6% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be main-
tained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance of
payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a sustainable
level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with respect to
trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19), and
improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy



- 7 -
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly
through improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy
measures will require a number of years to effect the needed structural
improvement in the balance of payments. The current account deficit,
therefore, is expected to remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually
during the first half of the 1980s, while declining in relative terms to
about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance
the balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price
increase. During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from
medium- and longterm loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt
service ratio stood at 20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital
will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price
increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will have
to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain the
strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last
Consultative Group Meeting, held in June 1982, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA)
of about $1.2 billion during 1983, similar to ODA commitments for 1982.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization, However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$143.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%. These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively,
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Coal Exploration Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on June 15, 1982.



-8-
by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $450 million per year in FY78-82. Although the Bank has financed
projects in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been
given to agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total
Bank/IDA lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transporta-
tion sector. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in
declining order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained
fairly stable throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within
infrastructure as lending for transportation and power declined in the second
half of the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was
initiated during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In
the industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on
strengthening individual development finance institutions and on providing
for the credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years,
however, industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was
made in September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improve-
ments in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial
Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden
the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the
Central Bank.
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as
compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the fiscal year)
declined marginally from about 18% in FY78 to about 16.7% in FY82./1 The Bank-
wide average was 21.5% in FY82; the comparable ratios for Thailand and Morocco
were 24.4% and 13.7% respectively in the same year./2 Implementation problems
increased in the late 1970s, reflecting, in part, administrative problems
caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints (para. 21). They also
result from the changes in the scope of the Bank's lending operations: a
/1  Excludes disbursements under the first Structural Adjustment Loan.  If
included, the ratio increases to 21.8%.
/2  Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs.



-9
substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of lending, an
emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific target groups
and deprived regions have all made implementation a more demanding task than
in the past. The first project implementation review was held in May 1980, at
which time, among other issues, the relatively poor disbursement performance
was discussed. Steps were subsequently taken to correct some of the
administrative problems which were delaying implementation. A second review,
held in February 1982, provided a useful follow-up and exchange of views on
problems still being experienced in project implementation. During the
February review, the Government and the Bank agreed that similar reviews would
be held in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will address the wide variety
of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the Philippines.
Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support further policy
reforms in trade, industry, energy and other key sectors. In sectoral terms,
agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the largest
share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the incomes of the rural poor. Substantial assistance will be given to
industry through further subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing
specific subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to
small and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently intro-
duced "apex" concept. Increased support is also planned to develop domestic
energy resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing
and managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in education,
water supply, urban development and, possibly, health and family planning,
will aim at improving basic services and creating employment, particularly in
less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the first loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for geothermal exploration,
rural water supply, petroleum exploration, regional cities development and a
second structural adjustment loan have been appraised and are scheduled for
Board presentation in the coming months.



- 10 -
PART III - MANPOWER DEVELOPMlENT AND VOCATION;AL TRAINING
33.        A serious barrier to implementation of the Goveranfent's industrial
development policies is the low skill profile of the labor force. Of the 18.5
million estimated 1980 labor force, only 0.5 million (about 3%) could be
considered as possessing industrial skills. This situation results from:
(a) the traditional emphasis on training out-of-school youth in household
skills (dress-making, tailoring, weaving, basketwork, etc.); (b) the absence
of a strategy for on-the-job in-plant training; and (c) the emigration of many
skilled workers, particularly to the Middle East.  Demand from abroad for
trained manpower grew rapidly from 12,500 persons in 1975 to about 142,000 in
1980; of these, more than 80% went to the Middle East.  Enigration eases
unemployment and generates foreign exchange, but it also creates a skill
drain, as 60% of the departing workers possess industrial skills.  The
construction sector has been particularly hard hit.
34.        The country's output from  vocational training courses rose from
12,000 persons in 1975 to almost 345,000 persons by 1980.  However, eighty
percent were trained in household skills. Thus the supply of graduates with
employable job entry industrial skills was only about 66,000.  For the
industrial and services sectors, it is estimated that training will be
required for about 120,000 job entrants and 360,000 already-employed workers
per year up to 1986.
35.        The Government's industrial development strategy aims at acceler-
ating manufacturing output, sustaining the high growth rate of manufactured
exports, processing of domestic raw materials, increased employment genera-
tion, particularly within small and medium-size enterprises, investment in
selected large-scale projects, and promotion of regional dispersion of
industry.  Within this framework, the Government has assigned priority to
metals and engineering, garments, shoes and leather goods, wood products,
automotive, construction and hotel and restaurant subsectors.  An estimated
155,000 persons annually enter these subsectors.  Some 47,000 of those will
require job entry training to meet growth, replacement and emigration losses.
A further 78,000 already employed workers require upgrading annually.  Total
training needs thus reach about 125,000 annually for the seven selected
sub sectors.
Institutional Framework for Vocational Education and Training
36.        Vocational education and training in the Philippines is undertaken
mainly by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), the National Mlanpower
and Youth Council (NMYC) and the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MOLE).  The
MEC conducts four-year industrial courses at the secondary level, with output
of 24,700 in 1980.  The Office of Nonformal Education of MEC offers short
vocational courses to out-of-school youth. Output is about 172,000 annu-
ally, of wlhich 94% (161,000) are trained in household skills oriented to
self-employment and only 6% (11,000) acquire industrial skills. NMYC, a
tripartite policy-making and training agency attached to the President's
Office, is responsible for manpower planning and development.  It operates



- 11 -
10 Regional Manpower Training Centers (RITCs) and 14 Regional Manpower
Development Offices. RMTC training courses focus mainly on the needs of
out-of-school youth, and total output in 1980 was 110,000, of which about
36,000 were in industrial skills.  NMYC is also responsible for the trade
testing system and for promoting employer participation through the training
tax incentive and industry board schemes. A tax rebate scheme permitting
deduction of half the cost of training from taxable income was introduced in
1978. Tripartite industry boards in the automotive, textile, land
transportation, power, construction and hotel and restaurant subsectors are
responsible for the planning and organization of training in the respective
subsectors. The Bureau of Local Employment - BLE -- (formerly Bureau of
Apprenticeship) of MOLE is responsible for apprentice training. Output
reached 17,800 in 1980, of which 9,300 were in industrial occupations.
Financing of Vocational Education
37.       Increasing government concern for occupation-oriented human
resource development is reflected in the growth of expenditure from P 314
million in 1978 to P 923 million (20% of the total education budget) in
1980. The major increases have been for agricultural education and
extension and for community development and self employment. Resources
provided for industrial vocational education and nonformal training are
channelled through MEC, NMYC and the Bureau of Apprenticeship (now BLE),
which had budgets of P 130 million (14% of the occupation oriented Human
Resource Development Budget), P 37 million (4% of the budget) and P 0.78
million (0.001% of the budget) respectively in 1980. While MEC experienced
a 30% increase (in nominal terms), the budgets of NMfYC and the Bureau of
Apprenticeship (now BLE) remained static during the three year period.
Expenditure of the available resources on community development and the
training of very large numbers of out-of-school youth in household skills
has left inadequate resources for industrial education and training.
Issues
38.       Three main issues affect industrial training.  Firstly, management
of manpower planning and agency coordination are weak. Manpower planning
lacks an adequate data base and, in the absence of political support, is not
used for policy-making in human resources development. MIoreover,
coordination of the principal agencies involved in training has not been
achieved. Secondly, training programs lack relevance, as too much emphasis
has been given to training out-of-school youth in household skills and
insufficient attention paid to the training needs of employed workers in the
manufacturing sector. The NEC formal and nonformal vocational system has
not taken into account the needs of employers. Moreover, efforts by NMYC to
involve employers in training management through tripartite industry boards
and a training tax incentive scheme have fallen short of expectations. No
strategy exists for providing additional training after entering employment.
Apprenticeship is largely time serving, adult workers have few opportunities
for training, and supervisors and foremen do not consider training to be
their responsibility. Thirdly, the system lacks an institutionalized
national skills certification system.



- 12 -
Recent Developments
39.       Assistance from IJNDP/ILO (S3.7 million) was provided between 1969
and 1970 to establish NMYC and organize its Secretariat, to provide planning
and evaluation services at the national level, and to promote trade
stanaards and testing.  That project complemented IBRD Credit No. 349-PH,
which assisted in the establishment and initial operation of 10 RMTCs. In
addition, NMYC has received technical assistance from the Colombo Plan and
the Japanese Government. In 1979, the Government set up a Presidential
Commission to study sectoral issues. The Commission's recommendations are
being implemented by NMYC with external financing. The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) is assisting MEC in upgrading postsecondary technician education,
and, through the proposed project, the IBRD would assist NMYC to improve
manpower planning and evaluation, coordination of training, course relevance
and the expansion of training and skills testing and certification.
The Bank's Role
40.       The Bank's lending to the industrial sector (channelled through the
Development Bank of the Philippines, Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines, Philippine Investment Systems Organization, the Industrial
Guarantee and Loan Fund and the Central Bank of the Philippines) has
amounted to 14 loans totalling $837.4 million, including $242 million
specifically for small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) financing.
41. In 1979, the Bank reviewed its operational program in the industrial
sector in the Philippines and concluded that, while the Bank'.s past lending
to individual development finance companies (DFCs) had largely achieved its
institution building objectives, industrial and financial sector policy
improvements should be the major objectives of future Bank lending. Major
changes in industrial and trade policies were supported by the first
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 1903-PH).  In addition, the Government
introduced far reaching policy and institutional changes in the financial
sector, which were supported by the Bank through the Financial Sector (APEX)
Loan.
42.       The Bank's future lending program would assist Philippine
industrial development through: (a) a series of structural adjustment loans
associated, inter alia, with industrial policy reforms in such areas as
tariffs, export promotion measures and investment incentives; (b) industrial
finance projects to support complementary financial policy and institutional
reforms; (c) individual subsector loans that would assist in the
restructuring of major industries, including support initially for textiles
and, possibly, the mechanical engineering subsectors; (d) broadened
institutional support for employment-creating activities, including
particular attention to SMI; and (e) training.



- 13 -
43.       The Bank has financed seven education projects in the Philippines,
for a total of $208.7 million. However, only the second project
(Credit 349-PH, dated 1973) was aimed at the industrial sector, emphasizing
pre-employment training for skilled workers and technicians. Assistance was
provided for the establishment of 10 Regional Manpower Training Centers for
1IMYC and three Technical Institutes for the Ministry of Education and Culture.
The project was completed in December 1978. The RMTCs trained 20,000
persons in 1980. The three technical institutes initially experienced
difficulties in recruiting candidates for admission but enrollment is
increasing, and an output of 516 was achieved in 1980. The Project
Completion Report on Credit 349-PH identified the main problems encountered
during implementation as inadequacy of operating budget, insufficient staff
incentives and absence of detailed project engineering before negotiations.
A Project Performance Audit Report which endorsed the findings of and
highlighted main points of the Project Completion Report, was issued in
draft on June 18, 1982. The proposed project includes provisions which would
mitigate these problems.
PART IV - THIE PROJECT
44.       The project was identified by a reconnaissance mission in December
1978. It was prepared by a task force nominated by the Director of NMYC
assisted by a UNESCO preparation/preappraisal team which completed its work
in December 1980. Following project appraisal in May 1981 and a post-
appraisal mission in August 1981, loan negotiations took place in Washington
in April 1982. The Philippine Negotiating Team was led by Dr. Jose Vergara,
Acting Director of NMYC. The Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3750b-PH,
dated August 26, 1982) is being circulated separately. Supplementary Project
Data are provided in Annex III of this report.
Project Concept
45.       The project's main thrust would be to broaden and strengthen the
infrastructure of national industrial training in accordance with the
Philippine industrial development and manpower training needs outlined in
Part III of this report. It is designed to support the Government's
regional diversification strategy and the training needs of small- and
medium-scale industries. The project would support the training of 76,000
employees in seven priority subsectors identified by the Government: metals
and engineering; shoes and leather goods; wood products; construction;
automotive; garments; and hotels and restaurants.
46.       To achieve these objectives the project would finance civil
works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials, technical assistance, and
operating costs to:
(a)  improve the management of industrial training by (i) reorganizing
and strengthening the NMYC Secretariat; (ii) upgrading NMYC
manpower planning and training evaluation; and (iii) establishing a
Management Information System and an Equipment Maintenance Service;



- 14 -
(b)  strengthen industrial training by implementing a sector specific
training scheme and by establishing five new training centers and
supplying equipment for nine existing centers; and
(c)  expand the trade testing and certification system by establishing
nine trade testing units and developing additional training
standards and a data bank of trade tests.
Management of Industrial Training (proposed outlay $2.5 million).
47.       To improve NMYC's capacity to manage industrial training at the
national level, NMYC would be reorganized with the assistance of foreign
specialist services. The Industrial Manpower Development Division, which
is responsible for the industry boards and tax incentive schemes, would be
expanded and reorganized with the establishment of seven Sectoral Training
Units. These units would develop annual training action plans, negotiate
draft training contracts, supervise implementation of training and partici-
pate in the training of supervisors. The project would finance the salaries
of 42 man-years of local consultants and two man-years of fellowships to
strengthen the Division. The Trade Skills Standards Division would be
upgraded and strengthened. Technical staff in these two Divisions would be
increased by 15 and 30 respectively, with consequent increases in support
staff, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.09
of the Loan Agreement).
48.       A Training Contracts Committee has been established by the
Government. This committee comprises representatives of employers, labor,
the Ministry of Labor and Employment and NMYC, and would be assisted by the
NMYC Secretariat. It would be responsible for approving training contracts
(para. 55) and awarding them to training entities on behalf of employers.
49.       Manpower planning and training evaluation would be improved through
the provision of consultancy contracts. The NMYC would be assisted in
systematizing data collection, training needs assessments and information flow
to the training agencies. Assistance would also be provided to devise a low
cost scheme to measure the internal and external effectiveness of training.
The project would include $0.3 million for equipment, local specialist
services and operating costs for the preparation .of future industrial training
projects by the project management unit of NMYC.
50.       A management information system would be established by NMYC to
provide electronic processing of data. An equipment maintenance service would
also be established. The project would finance: (a) technical assistance
consisting of 3 man-years of foreign specialists, 12 man-years of foreign
fellowships and 6 man-years of local consultants; (b) a minicomputer with
software and related training; (c) tools and spare parts for maintenance of
training equipment; and (d) contracts with contributors to the quarterly
publication, "Industry Manpower Network".



- 15 -
Strengthening Industrial Training (Proposed outlay $21.2 million, including
technical assistance)
51.        Sector Specific Training Scheme.  The project would assist NMYC to
establish and implement a Sector Specific Training Scheme administered by
the Sectoral Training Units and carried out through a system of contracts
(para. 55) to provide training courses for the seven priority subsectors
(para. 45). The Scheme would be based on four-year outline training plans,
prepared by NMYC, under which training would be provided for 25,000
apprentices, 28,000 adult workers and 16,150 supervisors. This training
would meet 13% of the need for apprentice training, 10% of the need for
training adult workers and 43% of the supervisor upgrading needs in the
priority subsectors over the four-year period. Annual training action plans
for each subsector would be developed by training officers in the Sectoral
Training Units, in consultation with employers and training entities. NMYC
would submit the annual training action plans to the Bank for its review and
approval to which would be added a list of training entities which are
satisfactory to the Bank commencing on or before April 1, 1983 and by each
April 1 thereafter (Section 3.06 of the Toan Agreement).
52.       The apprentice training courses offered at present by the Bureau of
Local Employment of the Ministry of labor and Employment (MOLE) would be
restructured by the Sectoral Training Units, with foreign technical
assistance to be provided under the project. The Bureau of Local Employment
would retain responsibility for the registration of apprentices, while the
sectoral training units would implement training by arranging training
contracts. A memorandum of understanding between NMYC and MOLE which
outlines the respective responsibilities of the two agencies has been signed.
53.       In order to upgrade adult workers, off-the-job training courses
would be arranged by the Sectoral Training Units. In addition, on-the-job
training would be provided by supervisors for adult workers in factories.
Off-the-job courses would be arranged in short modules to facilitate atten-
dance by employees and promote flexibility in employment. NMYC is already
using the modular system, and its Curriculum and Training Aids Division would
develop and reproduce additional modules to meet training needs.
54.       An extensive program of supervisor training, emphasizing their
training responsibilities, would be developed and arranged by the Sectoral
Training Units. Training in the garment industry (for supervisors only)
would be provided by using mobile units. The project would include seven
such units, comprising equipment, trailers and traction units. The project
would also provide technical assistance to the hotel and restaurant industry
to help it develop an appropriate training scheme.
55.       Training Contracts System.  To implement the Sector Specific
Training Scheme, an innovative system of training contracts would be
established, obligating approved training entities to provide specific
training and obligating employers to share the cost. Training entities
could include public and private trade schools, training centers and
colleges, public agencies and industrial enterprises.



- 16 -
56.       Under these contracts, employers would be responsible for the full
cost of stipends and tuition fees on behalf of their trainees during
off-the-job training. The NIMYC would subsequently reimburse employers Lor
the tuition fees paid for trainees who pass specified trade tests.  The
amount of this reimbursement would be reduced during the project as
employers assume an increasing share of the cost. By project completion it
is estimated that the few larger structured enterprises in the SMI sector
would be financing about 50% of annual training costs. However, it is not
expected that the smaller firms would contribute more than the cost of the
stipend (30% of training cost). As this arrangement is experimental, its
effect on participation by employers would be closely monitored and would be
taken into account in subsequent contract negotiations. As an incentive to
employers in small- and medium-size enterprises (less than 200 employees) to
participate, the NM4YC would, in addition, finance 100% of stipend costs for
apprentices and supervisors in the first year of the project and 50% in the
second year. Over the project period, employers would thus finance about
30% of the cost of off-the-job contract training, while the project would
finance the remaining 70%.
57.       Expansion of Training Facilities.  The project would finance the
construction, furnishing and equipping of four new Regional Manpower
Training Centers (RMTCs) and additional equipment for nine existing RMTCs;
and the construction, furnishing and equipping of a Construction Industry
Training Center (CITC) in Manila. All the centers would be administered by
NMYC and would give priority to contract training of employed workers under
the Sector Specific Training Scheme (para. 51). In addition, except for the
CITC, they would provide regular courses for out-of-school youths. The
total capacity of the 14 new and expanded training centers would be 2,955.
Assuming a two-shift operation, their annual output would be about 20,000
trainees. The new training centers would require about 106 trade
instructors, who would attend the instructor training course given at the
RMTC Taguig, Manila. The costs for this course have been included in the
project.
58.       NMYC has established, in each region, Local Manpower and Youth
Committees composed of industrialists and local government officers to pro-
vide a forum for the discussion of training matters. These committees will
continue to provide operational advice to existing RMTCs. To support training
operations of the proposed RMTCs, new committees will be established within
six months of the commissioning of the new training centers. (Section 3.10
of the Loan Agreement).
59.       To extend training to rural areas, the project would assist
NMYC to establish an experimental rural mobile training program by
providing equipment for nine units, and four vehicles and a boat. Each
unit would have a capacity of 12 places and train about 100 persons per
year. Output would reach about 1,400 in 1986.
Trade Testing and Certification (Proposed outlay $3.2 million)
60. The project would finance 14 man-years of local consulting services
and 5 man-years of overseas fellowships to assist NMYC to develop



- 17 -
about 40 additional trade skill standards and expand the skill testing system.
A Data Bank of Trade Tests would also be developed. The project would include
the construction, furnishing and equipping of two Trade Test Uniits and
equipment for establishing independent testing places in seven RMTCs, making
possible an increase in the number of workers tested each year from 14,700 in
1982/83 to 30,000 in 1985/86.
Technical Assistance
61.       Technical assistance would be provided in connection with each
component described above, and its cost is included in component cost. Total
technical assistance would comprise 6 1/2 man-years of foreign specialist
services, 29 man-years of overseas fellowships, and 62 man-years of local
consultant services. All consultants would be selected in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
62.       Total project costs are estimated at $41.7 million, including about
$1.4 million import duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at $17.4 million, including $0.4 million capitalized front-end fee
on the Bank loan, or about 41% of total project cost. Cost estimates are
based on unit prices in April 1982. The major elements of project cost are:
civil works, including site development and professional services for five
training centers and two trade test units ($6.1 million); furniture, equipment
and teaching materials ($8.9 million); technical assistance (foreign and local
consultants and fellowships) ($2.2 million); and operating expenditures
comprising training contracts, staff training, teaching materials production
and project unit technical staff ($10.1 million), making a total base cost of
$27.3 million. Physical contingencies ($3.4 million) and price contingencies
($10.6 million) total about $14.0 million. Foreign fellowship costs have been
estimated at about $1,650 per man-month, and foreign specialist services at
about $6,000 per man-month, both inclusive of salaries, allowances, benefits
and international travel. Local consultants costs range from $830 - $1,350
per man-month. Local price increases for civil works and furniture are
estimated at 10% in 1982; and 8% per year in 1983-86. Price increases for
local technical assistance and operating expenditures included in the project
are estimated at 10% in 1982, and 8% per year in 1983-86. Price increases for
imported equipment and foreign technical assistance are estimated at 8% in
1982 and 1983; 7.5% in 1984; 7% in 1985; and 6% in 1986.
63.       The proposed $24.4 million loan would finance the full foreign
exchange cost and $7 million (30%) of local costs,/l or about 60% of total
project cost, net of taxes and duties.  Financing for the remaining $17.3 mil-
lion, including $1.4 million for taxes and duties, would be provided by the
/1 For justification of local cost financing see para. 26.



- 18 -
Government. The cost of tuition fees and stipends for trainees during the
project would total $12.0 million.  Of this total, the employers would pay
an increasing share, averaging 30% over the period, while the project would
finance the remainder.  The additional annual operating costs to be incurred
by the Government for full project operation in 1986 are estimated at $5.0
million. This includes the cost of training contracts and the operating
cost of new RMTCs and the trade testing and certification program. In
addition to this, employers would pay tuition fees and stipends totalling
about $2.0 million each year.
Project Implementation
64.       The project would be implemented by a project management unit
(PMU) in the Secretariat of N YC, headed by the Deputy Director of TMYC.  An
accounting system satisfactory to the Bank would be established in the PMU
with the assistance of the Commission on Audit. Training activities
organized under the project would rely heavily on existing technical support
services of NMYC and the Bureau of Local Employment of the Ministry of Labor
and Employment. Due to loss of key staff in the past to better paying
entities, an incentive package sufficient to ensure the retention of staff
would be provided to NUIYC and the Bureau of Local Employment (Section 3.08 of
the Loan Agreement).
65.       All construction sites have been acquired.  Detailed lists of
equipment have been approved. Tender documents for equipment procurement
have been prepared and approved and tendering is expected to begin in
October 1982. Procurement is expected to end in March 1984. Tendering for
construction is planned for January 1983 and the buildings are expected to
be completed by November 1984. The project is scheduled for completion by
December 31, 1986 (Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
66.       Responsibility for the operation and routine maintenance of the
physical facilities and equipment would lie with the Deputy Director of NMYC.
Adequate budgetary allocations would be made to ensure assignment of trained
personnel and maintenance staff at each institution and provision of mainte-
nance materials, spare parts for instructional equipment and training
materials (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Contracts for civil work in an aggregate of US$8.5 million (92% of
the total value of civil works) and equipment totalling US$11 million (90%
of the total value of equipment), as well as contracts for furniture,
materials and vehicles, would be grouped to the maximum extent possible to
form attractive bid packages. All contracts for the above would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines for Procurement except for:



- 19 -
(a)  civil works contracts (aggregating about US$0.7 million or 8%
of the total value of civil works) costing less than US$500,000
equivalent (which are unlikely to arouse the interest of
international construction companies); and
(b)  bid packages for equipment (aggregating about US$1.2 million
or 10% of the total value of equipment) and furniture and
teaching materials estimated to cost less than US$100,000
each.
Contracts for items procured under (a) and (b) could be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures in accordance with government pro-
curement practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders would
be allowed to participate. In addition, miscellaneous items under (b)
above, in contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent and subject to an
aggregate total of $500,000 equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of a
minimum of three price quotations. A preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower,
will be extended to eligible local manufacturers when comparing evaluated
bids obtained through international competitive bidding. Design criteria,
architects' briefs, preliminary drawings, and tender documents have been
prepared and are satisfactory. Tender evaluation documents for civil works
contracts estimated to cost more than $250,000 and furniture, vehicles,
equipment and teaching materials contracts exceeding $100,000 equivalent
would be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to award. (Schedule 4 of
the Loan Agreement). Final lists of equipment would be reviewed by the
Bank. Review of tender evaluation documents would be required prior to
award.
68.       Disbursements would be made against (a) 40% of the cost of civil
works and professional fees; (b) 100% of foreign expenditure for directly
imported equipment, vehicles, furniture and materials; (c) 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, vehicles, furniture and
materials; (d) 65% of the invoiced cost of locally procured furniture,
equipment, vehicles and materials; (e) 100% of the total cost of foreign and
local specialist services, consultancy contracts and overseas training; and
(f) 50% of government expenditures for tuition fees, stipends, staff
training, preparation of teaching materials and salaries of Project Manage-
ment Unit technical staff (Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement). Disbursements
for eligible items would be made against full documentation except for
operating expenditures incurred under the sector-specific training scheme,
which would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), involving about
27% of the Loan amount. Supporting documents for SOEs would be retained by
the Government and made available for review by visiting bank missions.
Project accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting and
auditing procedures acceptable to the Bank, including a separate opinion
with regard to disbursement made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(Sections 4.02 (b)(c) of the Loan Agreement).  Retroactive financing up to a
maximum of $300,000 would be allowed against expenditures incurred after
December 31, 1981 (Schedule 1 para. 4 of the Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
69.        All aspects of industrial training would be evaluated, and by
December 31, 1984 and each Decemiber 31 for three years thereafter, reports
would be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments (Section 3.07 of
draft Loan Agreement).
Benefi_s and Risks
70.        The proposed project forms an integral part of the government's
industrial development strategy focussing on regional diversification and
the training needs of small-and medium-scale industries.  It would
strengthen the national management of training, increase the relevance of
training to industrial needs, and improve the skill profile of the labor
force.
71.        The institutional developments proposed would strengthen the
Secretariat of NMYC, broaden the data base for training management, improve
coordination and reduce management costs. Manpower planning would be
strengthened. The evaluation system would be improved, external
effectiveness of training measured, and the findings incorporated into the
training system.
72.       Relevance of training would be improved by the participation of
employers in its planning, organization and financing. Incentives built
into the cost sharing scheme would attract participation by both small and
large enterprises. Responsibility for training costs would be transferred
gradually from the Government to the employer.  Initially the employers
would finance 30% of training costs. By project completion, it is estimated
that the larger structured enterprises in the SMI sector would be financing
about 50% of costs (para. 56). Interaction between the Sectoral Training
Units and the employers would ensure flexibility, guarantee the technical
relevance of courses and improve the utilization of existing facilities in
schools, training centers, and enterprises.
73.        The project would train about 76,000 persons, mainly employed
workers in the smaller enterprises.  Supervisor upgrading would establish
on-the-job training as a permanent management tool for improving quality and
output on the factory floor. An additional 160,000 workers could benefit
from this strategy. Restructured apprenticeship training would promote
industry-based career development for job entrants. Increased opportunities
for trade testing and the availability of an expanded range of trade
standards would have a major upgrading and standardizing effect, enabling
employers to identify their needs more easily, and providing a yardstick for
workers in negotiating wage differentials. Out-of-school youth would also
benefit under the project from the additional industrial training oppor-
tunities. Furthermore, they would benefit from improved teaching materials
and expanded trade testing opportunities in the four new RMTCs, as well as
in the experimental rural mobile training scheme.
74.        Employers have shown some reluctance to finance the training of
workers on a scale necessary to meet current and future demands.  The project
would demonstrate the benefits to be derived from training, and Government
would finance some costs for employers in small- and medium-size enterprises



21 -
in the first two years of the project. Nevertheless, the success of the
proposed project depends on the employers' perceptions of the benefits to be
derived from training and the adequacy of the financial incentives incor-
porated in the training contracts. The project would provide assistance to
NMYC to develop an improved information flow to employers (para. 50). Good
participation by large and medium-size enterprises is expected. Employers in
the smaller enterprises, however, may be less eager to participate after the
initial subsidy, because of the cost and the fear that better trained workers
may demand higher wages or leave for higher paying jobs elsewhere. The pro-
posed system of contractual training is new in the Philippines and may not
find as great an acceptance as projected.
75.       Among the various conditions for the success of the project, the
availability of competent professional staff is most important. Recently NMYC
has been losing competent staff to other better paying employers. Should NMYC
continue to lose key personnel, project implementation might be impaired. To
ensure retention of staff, an incentive package would be provided to NMYC
personnel (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement). Moreover, as this project is
to be implemented by a new project implementation unit in NMYC, some diffi-
culties due to lack of experience with Bank procedures could occur. Technical
assistance would be provided to assist NMYC with this and other aspects of
implementation (para. 61). Due to the innovative nature of the proposed
project, initial training of project staff and frequent supervision may be
necessary.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
77.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 26, 1982



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                   Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/-
TOIAL            300.U                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AORICULTURAL     109.0               1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA I CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  150.0        250.0     690.0                  890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      146.8       272.3      329.4                  701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27902.0      37540.0   49049.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3         32.9       36.2                   32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        76.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         126.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION ES REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSETY
PER SQ. KM.                        93.0       125.1      159.2                  255.9                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    282.4        361.0      438.2                 1748.0                    92.5
PUPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5       44.1                   39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52..        51.6       52.8                   56.8                   56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9        3.1                    3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1         3.0        2.7                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               4.2         3.8        3.6                    3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.5        38.5       34.1                   31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.6         9.8        7.3                    9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         2.7        2.2                    2.0                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    .           2.0       37.0                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0      113.0                  115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.6        97.2      106.7/c                106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        47.5       52.O/c                 54.4                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.6        18.7       20.4/6                 13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.6          7.9       4.5                    6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.8         59.0       63.5                   59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           105.8        75.0       54.7                   63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *         24.0       43.0/d                 32.0                    65.6
URBAN                                ..           .       66.0/d                 51.9                    78.9
RURAL                                 .           ..      33.0/7                 20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          57.0       56.0/d                 37.7                    59.3
URBAN                                ..           .       76.0/d                 65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                .                    44.0/d                 24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               .            ..    2809.4/c               8540.4                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3840.0    3173.1/c                4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1229.3       838.6      568.7                 1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                             547.3       400.6         ..                  651.6                   679.8
RURAL                                .      .               ..                 2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         30.0        ..                   27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AVErAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8          5.9
URBAN                                ..         6.2
kURAL                                ..          5.6
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
URBAN                                ..         2.1
RURAL                                ..         2.4
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5         23.2      36.0
URBAN                                ..        60.4       82.0
RURAL                                ..          6.8      10.0



- 23 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE),
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0       114.0       98.0                   96.2                     104.3
MALE                  98.0        115.0         ,.                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                93.0        113.0        ..                    92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0        51.0       63.0                    37.6                     41.3
MALE                  28.0         52.0         ..                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                25.0         49.0        ..                    34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.3            8.9/e    33.9/c                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.9        28.6       31.2/c                 35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                           26.9/f      33.0       35.6/c                 25.0                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         71.9         82.6      75.0                    73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.1          7.4       8.8/g                   9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.5        40.0       44.0                  116.5                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4         10.7      20.9                   37.6                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   17.4         13.4      20.3                    53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPIlA  0.6/h           ..       7.5/d                   2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11117.5       13730.4   17412.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.2        33.1       32.3                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         53.0      46.0                    52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0        16.0       17.0                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8         36.6      35.5                    38.5                     33.6
MALE                                  52.1         48.6      47.6                    50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                                27.4         24.4      23.2                    26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3       1.3                     1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     260.0                  194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     195.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     266.0                   178.2                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.0                   164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      32.0                    24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      41.0                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1972; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h 1958.
May, 1982



-24 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEIIIOSO  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                                Page    3   of   5
Notes   klthoogh the data ar  dran frI       soresgneal  judged the  -s  a-horitnatve and reIiable, In sheld also be noted asa  they way not be inne--
naion aly  -oporabe, beoss  of th lac  of  -Anuoar-ed 'dotoiIion   ..I concpts usedby differn ...  c--Sea iA enllecieg  the data.  The data are. ....-
theleno  oni   n  dscrIbe ord-r  of Ia.egi-do.  indicate trede.d   ad ebarec Carioe  cetinI _aj   diffrr-e-oce-ia.
fThecfruegop   r   1   h              eouoygopo    esbetcutyad 12) a country groat rich so-hoa  bighbet neeage in-o   thou the country grop
of  heou) et  outep(ecrc fr    Sih  ncoe  ilinprtro   grepnice"Middle Income Norh Africa and Middle E-so  iwobh.... beas f stronge
node-c  itnoo  ufdionleo).In thea r-free-     grou  dato the av-gen are pep,alotlo  ewighted arliatheob   m-o  for watt lodi-no- add shee  only when
oajorty of he coetefe  in a atn  baaph:  data for thor indiodre.  Sic   he  -nearag  of o-aniefs.         e  the Indatr  depends ow ghe  ndilubilfty of dsfa
anddI   o   oie,cuines  be noer lard io reletiog an-rg-ao   n I                  indletn  to  oeher   Thes  average  ar  daly un-fa1 Sc onparing the  -1iu  of
AREh (ebousund uq.n.'                                                                            ...a.u.atian' per Saptiral Sd-coa,ubn  aed  -ea  - Pepulatto   (otl
Tutc  -.ltul  _utac  are  c-mp kIti5 iand ara sod Inland a--r; 1979 data,                         urban, and Irrl   irided by theIr  -epoco fo  d.numbe  ahanpinul beds
Eg.tiool-fi-et  of airitaltura  area ugod rep-esily or persanetly                        analalien pab1ie sod prinon   gat-a  and wycotlieed hospital andin
fur crpa, ys-te-  oltot and kitchen gerdon at to lIe tuILo; 1929 data.                        h lhhitutnonoet.    npita."anetbltshmeoo  permnenly stintfed
by at,es   w  pyiin    st.tbllsh-ent  pennidlg peincipal1y esto-
iSP P1  CaPIA (is)  -GNy  per capita ra timete  at currat sketn  prices, eel-                dialtr  ae1tloldd   Rurl1 hoapitala  . boene, include heddth
o Ia..ed by sawn cnn-nruo  nethud us World Sank Atlat (1978-AS buwis); 1965,                     und _edtn_  ceoa..tne  nrp -rontly staffed by I phtystns- (hut byI
'90 nd18    ata                                                                         medical assistant,u_s, midwif, ee.  stitsiei-patien I..o..e
datger and pet-ide a limited rangea  mdieaIfillitiew.  Fee ssti_-
lOftilY Cd5SOtfPTSltN Pit T~.brTA - dna   auntu  olamrllwngy (anal                                  tical purpuses stb- huaplialslulade~d MJSSsptinoipglfgIS-tu  ha-p-als
andl.Ignte-ptoe            aua   a   e  bydee-  nuclar6an  goonteh-l riw-                        and rural hos:pitals, loca  at -ea  hosPital  and sedica1end maerity
orinity) Ic kilegta-  of coa  equi-ul-t pee osplro; 190 970. nod 1979                            omtes   Seislieod hespitols era ingde .dd aly under totl.
danta.                                                                                         Adid ..t..  .er Hospita  fe   -  ntul nmbo  of  umnsas  ns  ditot"ges
from hespitais    i,ded  y the. nuber of beds.
0PSPOLTIIfN Ain VITAL STATISTICS
Total Peouluri-n fftd-Yle   (thonnads) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980                  ff0551N5
data.                                                                                        ieAg...Sloe, of Hausebold  (phospr  onbl)-  total,t urban  anlrrl-
chntplatla   percen  of tota) - Satin of urban to total pupularien;                        a    seed rnIsn   fagnpo   ind Ini dua hs-eboshare                   lngqaters
di,ffern    dfiit inos of srb-  r-a  say affect -parabilily of darn                             end abei main meals.  A bnarde- or ldg   may or may not ho included in
anngun--tvhn; 1961. 1970. ati 19i0 dubs.                                                       obn bausebld foesttlctalrupesee.
Po aiaProj- eoi...                                                                       Aveag  nte  of pet-ena  a  rs    t-Irl,uban, and rural - averge nue
PnyuloIea  0 yec li    - Curentpopulation projection  are I buse  an 1990             he   fproopr tea  i  al  ubn,ad rural noeapiedt-n-tilona.,
toalp ynltu   ya"     n   n   n   bi  vatlc    ud feetlity rates                       da-lliog, erpaivey           -wltg        olude ns-peraetstcsw   n
Prj -otr  arr-r  tot "'trality rut-n emyrisa of rime. levels ass.- an-pied pa-r.'
tag lIde eaP-cany an birch inoe-ing oats -o-ty's Per eapita ioame                          Ae-.s to  El-oniatry (eart...t If dwellings) -  -ota, urban, sod rural -
lee,adfaman lii   vniva                                           P.l1e0    t7.bysn    b  pana-  Covotldelingsit wIsh eeo 'itry to Ilbnto  quattets as p-ecentge
enesfor forflty i   rat  olso bone three -.  leel .aooieg decline in                     If total,obo.  adrridelnsepcie
ferility sotrding to ince  level- and past family pla...ing perfreaIe
and fernility trends for projeotine purpoee.                                               Adjusted E-11-met Raties
Stainr  eplto-lnautati.nary populatine ther  is no g-nth sinc                                   Ptimry cbnl  1-toal, male and tamale -  r.ts tera1. main awd female
the birth rot, a        II euat  the deub earo, and alga'h a agosrsarae-t-el                                o  nlages at the primary lee   sproae   frepctn
ano  cntat   Ti  ta aubjv-d ooly after letiyrae  dec Ilnea                           pimary ehe-aapplat ;  omly Ineade   bldre   ge   1
the r-pl-cee-  leve  of unit ne  repodu-i- earn,  hb.. oath geeainyear  hat adjusted for differe-  lengrhs of peimary ed-vtta; for
of_aww  replaces1. Itef onantly.  Tha eratleany populatIon sire ed-utrlies with anirra-l eda-ati  enrolmet maY eated 150 Percen t
vstlm_edcothw  husl- If the p-ojec-d cauashosa  the pepulstua                                  silate  some pll rebalas er above the affltal anbel age.
in tbr roa  2000g..ad the rate of dcSina ef fertility rare ce repl.or-                       Secon.dary  -hb-1 - renal,-l sand female - Cloep-adasabevw;seoodary
eeoc levei.                                                         edseatiasre~~~~~~~~quir-a Itea-t four year  of approvd Pr imary      aucaw
teen dttlnav   onito  istaue     Teyerooees lnay poyslatb-                                                  M..i  . goro.  .etatiendd r enetisaIndnnrca  I an poln
aloe ciii hecned.-sal ly of 12 is II year  et ge; corrempond ...re. course  err geeruly
reo s . h. -  ild-yas- pyapllai-a yen aqusne  kIloete  (Ill hedtt -) of                     'fctea nrlmn   Peoo of..    .ecfn'E) -Vttoa  idtooiostluos
tota  ara; 19k5, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                        i-olade tcheioal. industril.  op other pegrms stitch sportet indopnd-
Pe -glk.aitl- rlIIsed - Ca-Putd so abvo for agrlcltaa1 land                             ettynra  deparemanr  nf.s.ceedaryImtute
Iehy; 1960, 1970 sod 1979 daha.                                                            Poili-eee  rai      rmc,sd setndet-y   T-is  sssdnntertnlelld lv
pouanAge aSuctur  (percent) - Childre  (S-li y-ar).  -krisg-age (15-                       primaryaod, saon y le-al  divided by number  nt  teanhern in rho
hi yearn), and rrttied  fl3 year  and  odrin e nrgso  mid-pee  Pops-                           onreenpanding levels.
1ati-n  1960.  9197. and lSfidata.                                                           ida1t literay rar  feer-cr  - Literate adts(bl   ora    dwie
Pnpultin  Itat  Hoo  (P,e l               I oa  - So-u1 g-eth vote  at tota  .Id-                as a  seewtage If n-e  adalt  .popultio   gd1   er   n               r
year .P.yslarian fur 1955 -6f, 116S-PS, aed 1970-80.
Populatino ireeth Sane (per-nt) - obon - Annd1 gr-th r.ate  of urban popa-                   CoONSltTIOa
lailun   Sot 155-ti,ISts-O. and1975-A_f.                                            Psowage- Cars (per tboua-dpoutis  -  asege lcr   -aspriseme
Ceude Sirth  Rtisi  fprntho-and) - dAnaI lire bIrths Per Oho...ad of nd-yea                      vum sealing les  rhan eight pee...n; an1ldes anhulauces, hdteo s  o
population; 1960. 1970. ad tyb  dura.                                                           maiayes  e.
CueDeth Sate (peth-buaanu) - AouuL deaths pee thuas...d  of  ild-Y.a,                       Sadin  ,oane  foes th-nud pplo )-All types at receivers ive  -sdi
Poplno;1960, 1970, aod 1980 dora.                                                              broad catst  generalpblia per thb..s..d of netaitin  eaa "Ide              -
Irs   opauti SI atn- Aveage number of daughtrrassosa   sill bea  in                       itesdratesin au              Irs  o  in ydanr  whenrei.         rfeofrdio
hat veo-t1eyad            p-veyald if she  -oy-i-ue  pr-se              ... ag-ptftte-         sets- was to fgct; data ton teot yearn may not he  -up-tble slat
tili'Y vts   sal  i-e-eat --geo e-dieg in 1960, 1970, and 19805.. .                                   .ent .eutei- aaliahed S.iesieg.
Pa_ully      ia  t lg-veters. dentan-I    uond)- beos-i  -b-r of anceytors                     St gR-i-e   (par ibu....od ppraiotl) - TVreies far breadraut to
of birth--t-I devices under.. uupicr  of nationaI family plaunning program.                    g.s.... Publi  Per- thuaad populatlion; eovlsde  sli -cnd TVreonr
PaIlyyaon      sv  (ecuofard0mv)- Percentge at maried                                             Itonerated in .nars whee  -glaraln    f                 _'Vsts -agIn effect.
anen o  chiid- aing  gag (15-Ak years)  h.a usbirnh-cnt-I  devices to                       SNowpeperCieca;la wpeth....ed pos-istie) - Sh..s the averge tir-
almrIed rmoIvsmago group.euuieo  "daily genra Intrsnwppe'-ef    asa   Pe lodiesi
ptiatndavord Primail  so resdlu   genrasns   St latsde...  d-
POOl) ADS  NUiTRITION                                                                               to ho "dsily.. if in appear  a  leas  fea  .iean
lod-n  f rend rodu-tia- e  tpt  (1969-1-0) - tdru of per capita annua                          Ciwnis anuaI Att-dar- tee Crlta PerY ea-tone   no. d          thefhta
stedoctiva If al  fo  cuedhitwa,  Prcd-atieeutludes a-dsd  feed sod                            tickets sed dukg the year, iecladleg admlsinos to it ly-t  afoema
is on.caledar Year basin.  Co-edifti  tone  primay gacdt (e.g. eg-.c...                        and L'ilsa.     s
instead of safar)  hich  -arediblo acddncalanarannn(e.g. c-ffee sadd
ta-a _oldedd).  kiaisiv- tauttat  f ecefh cnuuoy 10 based -L ABOR FPOItE
naiealanrge pred-cre prays wights; 1961-65 , 1971, and 1)80 da.t                        TstaI Labor Fsrce frihteads) - Bdnnaw.lclY attire Perto, including
Per -apiaa sapyly of c .leir  (perc-t afCemirmet)- ap-d fins                                     are  tresad aemplayed bet _ ewlading h-awaine,  -tde-a.et.
vnr,iy aquil-anv  of net.fud sapyltsavalaleicantry Per cilts                                   coeing popalatt- uf all s-es   aeittallou   in -arh.s  catri_v ate
Per day.  vA-ilablr applirn d canyis  domestic pcooi le,impats- les                            no  aeiarble; 19160. 1970 and 1980 data.
eeoro,sd oagoin sto-k.Ntnplisealde animal fondd,seed,                                     PameI. (Per..et)I- Pemle lab- faree on pernetage atI tllbr re
qu..nt Ititasd in fond yp--,lig, ned idoana soditcl buftins.Srqlt                              Agriue pree  - Lbor torte in frig  fse y, buacIngad
Int, mere  -nthootn  by P1  b-ud en physiological nerds fer normal anti-                        fishing as p-rverge  ft tta  labor farv; 19h. 1970 an  1987             aa
n"tY and health cnnadeelvg  -tita--nrl t-p-rau-, body "in-igt  agLnucy(prot      abn  feree in mining, eostsvls,    anotarlng
sod 000 dasrotn ofpnelaio,and ulln-iog 15 perc-e  for  .ast  at                                  and rlcrrieitp. rater ad gas as prr-etagr of torl labar foe-;
to--bold level ; 196165. 1979 and 1972 iota.                                                     1960, 1970 and 19    Idaa
Pet caplia .nappisoIprten (arana pe  day) - Pr oct1   n-te-  ef vet -pit.a                     Ratert          ate ipeeet-) - nata, male, and female - Parricipstal   a
on  apply of  vad per day,  far ..ayply of toad is df teed a  abn.-   i.-                   activity raesar  caqtsid os tota, male, and female labor tfror a
qua     "Is   m    l  ceotto i oblu    byU lis  proIde f- on   ia-sn                   yatete   nittl  malt sod female peuatn                 f all age  erpettloey;
allnace  v  h  oam  o  tta  potin ye  dayad2  gasa  sia   e                          1965, 1970, ad  90da.Thssebsdanltprtipiarts
pulse protea, of slats 10 gren should ir an imal protein. heosad                               retl  tla   ag-sen ar-ooare of thr poplti            adtogtime trend.  A
utdv are Ingot that those of 75 groan of totalperl  aed 03 gramS of                     ftetmtuaefo    ahesiot
animal p-ori  aa an aveaga far rhe onrld,  lpapn-ned hy FAO in she Third                     fcomOpeea   ai                  ai   f population under 15 and 65 and oe
go-id F-nd lr-y; 1961--65, 1970 and 1977 dana,                                                 to she rtatg labor ferc-
Pernayta  rotin  eypy fne niml ad pln- Preri. sspply ef fond de-
riord  lran aianloanhd puh       agr.eupr  day; 1961-65, 197D and 19917 dta..              Sf9194  DISTSISgTltN
Child (ae   -4) Deat Sate )yr et_adod) - Ade..I dache Per  ..easa.d in                         Percentage nf Privat lonm  (boib in cash and kiod) -   -aived by richest
age gasp 1i yets, a  obIdro   in this sge grant  for moat d-lep igc..n-                  5 percear, riooot 71 pernt., poorest 20 p--ee, and poneest h0 perceet
tris  uo  dervw "dra    i   als  1965, 1970 an....daa.o                                              haeboda.
HEALTi                                                                                         POVET5Yy TARGET' GROUPS
U-fs   -ln lonc tyu   Stli(ou)- 'hvta..outet If yearn of life enmini'5                         The folleetegesias newvey ap-al-a  mesuesO  pe-rty  n-el.,
a.t limb; 1960, 197) and ipgo dons.                                                             snd ahoald be inteprt-d with cons~Iderble  ael
Isun_  orelt Sn(prthu...and) - Anneal d-arb  of tnf-atsuedae one Yea                          primat d ihosute Poverty Secoew Leve (TO) per  caito)- arsadrurl-
of age Pn  inasd  ta  la;16, 1970 sad 1980 d-Ab.ata.lsl5  pemnety teen   leve  1w tha  la _m level telow teh,  addala
AIcus.     aeitr(eret-                oaoin   tota, uban,. ed lrar1 - ta-                         -utrisnal  adqaediet plu ..n.....tia1 snn-faad roqaemst  in 000
betof people )Itatl. uran,an  raal         -is   essabl  aecras in s.af                        utfadabe
etrspply (ldatetdsraeeters. on    .--ata  hut  -ncat-i-,ted                              E.ist_nd PSain  osto Incom  Level CUSS e   sie -,   l aebt and tuda-
wooe  auv  anatortra  proeerdbreoe,nlua  and.. sai-tay wells) as-l relaive poery inne  evlIsn-b Iretargeper ospita
of-   h.ths ..rnp-tcto      pL.atee    Iansebamareaapsblic                           porsos  Isione  of the contry.   Srbs level is derived  tram  she total
f...ntati  ar atoeftoat inatod ant mrar rtha  2ff m-ere Promahe... may be                      level with udjunemen  foe hige  os  at Iliotna im  ebanaras
-oald-rd asI beig.ditt   reusamabl. access at tha  base.lsprs  atm.m                         SaImated Poralatto  Beo  abalae Pvety laeI             had(eretd-It
reaoo.shle acces  woud imlthtthe hea.            aea  merso   hetseedfn  ea   Paretnppltie(emaaders) w:h. are '-hmnlat
datbaeosPendIadistp-nrti.aat  part ofteday  i  fthisg the                              oo"
Aces g  in-re    Dispsa (peret of ospuLoago -d  totl, aebme,ae  ral-
NOuter sf peaple (ata.t   oron  ad meal)aevdbeertdipsln
pe-ttg-s af thei It-epective tpnpustn.    ort  dispa...lImay Lerlde
the eeicinsd dip.asa. math -e sieens  -tee tmm, ef h-in  eneetm
and easer-wae  hp ester-b-r   system   or the us  af pit ptieies and sim-
P-raleste  Pe- Phys.cai    -  api afo   dioSded by nuber  ft pecrlmtig phpmi-                                                         RE-mem  amA teeiel Data Singage
agamaqualfiedf re   a mdi_al srhoel at -nie_ity levl.                                                                    caeidAsalpeim  ad PraJeetints lfmfratist
Presatia pm faringP-er _n    V - Ppsltiee ddyddd  bypsa-es,at praretmtg                                                                      Map 1982
wastg   meliari-s



- 25 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                 Annual growth rates (%)
current prices)                        Actual                                       Projected
Indicator                             1979           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981          1982    1983    1984    1985       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            28,854            7.1      6.2      5.9     5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Agriculture                      6,991            8.6      5.0     4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                        10,174          10.0      7.7      6.4      6.7      5.8       6.5      7.2      7.5      7.5     8.5     10.0
Services                        11,689            3.7     5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6      6.2      6.0      6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                       21,860            4.3      5.2     4.6      4.8      4.2       5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1      5.8      7.0
Gross investment                   8,576            8.0      0.7    13.3      7.4      4.8       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1      8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                 5,528           19.9    17.6       1.6     7.4    11.3       10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                    7,110            1.3      5.3    13.2    10.3       5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6      6.8      7.2
Gross national savings             6,665           -2.0    11.3      8.3      7.7      3.1       -        -        -        -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                         183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9         -        -        -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                             7.45    7.41    7.38    7.39        7.52      -        -        -        -        -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                    92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                   91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 = 100)                 101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1        98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (3)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /c                                  (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic pruduct             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              5.1        6.1        5.9        6.3        7.6
Agriculture                       28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0              4.3        4.3        4.8        5.0        5.0
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6              6.0        8.6        7.6        7.5        9.1
Services                          46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4              5.2        5.4        5.7        6.1        7.7
Consumption                       85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7              4.8        5.5        5.2        5.2        6.5
Gross investment                  16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5              8.2       11.5        6.5        6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                   10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5              5.8        3.2       10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                   10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4              6.8        6.8        8.0        6.6        6.9
Gross national savings            16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2              7.4        9.7        -          -          --
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1978           Millions    1%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   7.4       44.4
Current revenues                            9.8        9.5       13.9       12.8            Industry                      2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                        9.6       10.9       12.3        9.6            Services                      5.6       33.0
Curretnt surplus                            0.2       -1.4        1.6        4.1            Unemployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                         2.3        1.9        3.2        3.2
Foreign financing                           -          0.1        0.3        1.5                Total Labor Force        16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                   5.1              5.6               5.9               6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (3)                        2.0              2.7               3.2               3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                    7.4              6.2               4.2               4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                         4.5              4.7               4.6               4.5               4.1
Marginal savings rate                                     0.285             0.330              0.26              0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                           1.33             1.12              1.20              1.05             0.90
ja  Preliminary estimate.
/b  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates ot export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Ottice
November 1981



- 26 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual               Est.              Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services             4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods            3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services            5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:  imports of goods            3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                             260     312      355      434     500      550     610      660      730
Current Account Balance                 -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                     216     171       99       45     290      320     350      390      420
MLT loans (net)                             662     891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310          920
Official-source loans (net)              332      333      449     375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                330     501      642     657      519      660     490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                      113      56    -193       593     455      300     300      300      300
Overall Balance /b                        164     -54    -579    -381    -375    -200          -      200     530
International reserves (end-yeaz) |c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                3.5     3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                       1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                         88     120      183      178
Bilateral                               62       56      113     101
IDA                                      2        1        3       2
Other multilateral                      24       63       67      75
Nonconcessional Loans                  1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                123      121      152       8
IBRD                                    99      160      204     221
Other multilateral                      30       47       81      83
Private sources                      1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                      1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                       3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                       2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                    762     910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                     183     270      486     659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                          18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                           7.5     5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                      8.4     9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                          18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                      9.0    10.2    11.1      9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
7h  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



ANNEX II
- 27 -                             Page 1 of18 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                Purpose                          Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                         485.82  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation           9.50             0.16
998-PH   1974           "                DBP 1                             50.00             0.43
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.00             0.51
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.00             7.83
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.00             2.87
1102-PH   1975                            Rural Development                 25.00             4.88
1154-PH   1976                            Magat Irrigation                  42.00             5.81
1190-PH   1976          "                 DBP II                            75.00             1.29
1224-T-PH 1976          "                 Education III                     24.73             2.23
1227-PH   1976          "                 Chico Irrigation                  50.00            25.80
1272-T-PH 1976          "                 Manila Urban                      10.00             2.99
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                      22.00             6.58
1269-PH   1977          "                 Second Grain Processing           11.50             4.04
1353-PH   1977          "                 Third Highways                    95.00            44.98
1367-PH   1977           "                Jalaur Irrigation                 15.00             5.55
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                  25.00             6.64
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rutal Credit
Philippines                                               36.50             12.30
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00               30.25
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                7.89
1421-PH   1977          "                 Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II         15.00             6.93
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.00            30.63
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming           8.00             5.90
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                               30.00             5.15
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00               48.30
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                     28.00    21.09
S.8-PH   1978          "                 Education                          2.00             0.88
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification               60.00              1.05
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                 15.00             1.05
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of th\e Philip.       Magat II                         150.00            22.97
1572-PH   1978           "                Industrial Investment III         80.00            25.20
1615-PH   1979          "                 Manila Water Supply II            88.00            78.14
1626-PH   1979          "                 National Extension                35.00            30.10
1639-PH   1979          "                 Magat River Multipurpose          21.00            14.22
1646-PH   1979          "                 Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50               10.12
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development          32.00            21.65
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                      100.00            97.44
1710-PH   1979           "                Water Supply II                   16.00            16.00
920=PH   1979           "                Water Supply II                          22.00    19.17
1727-PH   1979          "                 Small & Medium Industry II        25.00             0.36
923-PH   1979                            Population II                            40.00    39.30
1772-PH   1980          "                 Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.00            23.92
1786-PH   1980          "                 Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)        38.00            37.31
1809-PH   1980           "                Medium-Scale Irrigation           71.00            67.06
1814-PH   1980           "                Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00               57.18
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.00               11.21
1821-PH   1980                            Third Urban                       72.00            60.59
1855-PH   1980           "                Third Ports                       67.00            65.11
1860-PH   1980           "                Rural Roads Improvement           62.00            57.86
1890-PH   1981           "                Watershed Management              38.00            36.48
1894-PH   1981           "                Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00               33.90
1903-PH   1981           "                Structural Adjustment            200.00             3.96
1984-PH   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)           150.00           149.88
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan             100.00           100.00
2040-PH   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                 45.00            44.97
2067-PH/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                     8.00             8.00
Total                                                               2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            236.50
Total now outstanding                                               2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                             24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                       23.06            1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                    1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



-28--                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -        8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -        4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone              3.7       .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the              -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0      -       15.0
Corporation
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5      -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6          0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2      -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0      -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2      2.8
1977         Acoie Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -        2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                        5.0      0.1      5.1
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business               -        0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5      -        4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                  18.5       .7    19.2
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -            5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                       16.0      -       16.0
Total gross commitments                      120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                             34.5      0.8    35.3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date; December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way.  The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project's objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646  Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users'
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980;  Date of Effectiveness:  June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems. Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation. The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981. The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page IC) of 18
Loan No. 1894  Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trend should continue. In general, lending for fishponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) Studies being
carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries should be under way shortly,
and institutional strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; 995.0 Mlillion Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed.  However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agreed in detail in 1981 with the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation.  MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed. Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed. The technical assistance advisors
to MPWH completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
2PWI{ completed their work in March 1980.  Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of l&
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 MIillion Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainlv by slow procurement, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly. MPWHl
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed upon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts. Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well under way.  Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under way.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way. The
contract for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation. Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:  September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delavs in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year's
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for improvement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing. Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers' manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion.  Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at IJPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RT) system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). ITncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress.  The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 39 -
ANNIEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Covernment's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures. These difficulties should he
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Mlanila ITrban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982.  Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two.  The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647      Second IJrban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



-40 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule.  In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is inderway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend. The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented. Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067 Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 41 -
MANEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: Mfarch 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised
project cost estimate is 53%, higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of retuirn target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Mtillion Loan of Mlay 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about 81.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NFA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of MIarch 31,
1982; stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component (824.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984       Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of Mlay 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry. Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979). A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Mlinister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 44 -
MANEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



45 -                        ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         11 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:         NMYC and UNESCO
(c) Dates of first presentation to the
Bank and of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                      November 1978, December 1978
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission: April 26, 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        April 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             January 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) cause NMYC to increase the technical staff (i) in its Industrial
Manpower Development Division by about 15 training officers
and (ii) in its Trade Skills Standards Division by about 30 testing
officers, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 47);
(b) cause NMYC to submit the annual training action plans to the
Bank for review and approval and a list of training entities
which are satisfactory to the Bank commencing on or before
April 1, 1983 and by each April 1st thereafter (para. 51);
(c) cause NMYC to establish Local Manpower and Youth Committees as
required within six months of the commissioning date of each new
training center, and maintain committees at existing training
centers (para. 58);
(d) provide an incentive package sufficient to ensure the retention
of NMYC and the Bureau of Local Employment staff (para. 64);
(e) make sufficient budgetary allocations for full uAtilization and
maintenance of project buildings and equipment (para. 66); and
(f)  cause NMYC to submit to the Bank for review the evaluation reports
as of December 31, 1984, and by each December 31 for three years
thereafter during the project (para. 69).



I
i



IBRO 16112
OCTOBER 1981
1160     CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                    120                                                     124'
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                                                                                  PHILIPPINES
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
I ILOCOS                VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                                               VOCATIONAL  TRAINING  PROJECT
I locos Nonte             AkLan
Abra                      Capiz
locosSur                    Antique                                           .Regional Manpower Training Centers                                                         200
-20-         Mountain                -  °' °                                                                          .
Negros Occidental                                                                     Construction Industry Training Center
La Union          ViI CENTA    IAA
Banquet            -tt CENTir<A  VISAYAS fCb                                                                     Piiot RuTal Mobile Training Units
pas,nhasiran              Negros Oriental                                                                       Trade Te Stations
II CAGAYAN VALLEY               BoholTrdTetSain
- Batanes                   Siquijor                                                                              Garment Industry Mobile Units
Cagayan          VIII EASTERN VISAYAS
.~ Kalinga.Apayao         Northern Samar                            II v                                 -       Roads
.iabela                   Samar
Ifugao                    Eastern Samar                                         rRaHwaYs
NuevaViscaya              Leyte                                                                                  Provincial Boundaries
Quirino                   Southern Leyte           LccOog       I           .o(dAie
III CENTRALLUZON          IX WESTERN MINDANAO                                                                   -       Regional Boundaries
Nuema Ecia               Zamboanga del Norte                                                         -            e
Tarlac                    Zamboanga del Sua                                   |nternationai Boundaries
Zambales                  Basilan
Pampanga                  Sul                                 . l c
Bulacan                   Twitawii  ott                                        || 
Bataan              X NORTHERN MINDANAO                       -               TguegarPo
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG              Surigao del Norte  Son
Qve~~~on           Camigui n          Fernando
Qeizon                    Agusan del Norte  ' eo J                                                                   50                 2
Cavitduque                 Misamis Oriental     )          B  gteo                                                    0 0   0       0   200   250   300
Canite             ~~~~~Misamis Occidental                                                  KILOMETERS
160         Laguna                    Bukidnon                                                                       MILES
Batangso                   Agusn dal Sur                                                                                           I& 0  0     150       200
Marindqaen         Xi EASTERN MINDANAO                           J
Mindoro Oriental
Mindoro Occidental        Suriga.O del Sur        Torloc
Romeblon                  Davao Oriental                   jlCb~Io
Palawan                   Davao                             Guitcinto
V  BICOL                         Davao del Sur
Soarth Cotabato                                                                              I P        lE        1      
CamarinesNor       XII CENTRAL MINDANAO                            MANILA                                    ?  H    L /PP  /     E          S  f  r
Catanduanes               Lanae del Norte       Mariveles
Allhay                    Laneo del Sar
Sorsogon                  North Cotabato 
Masbate                   Maguindanao
Sultan Kudaratn
'  A ~~ Xaponl    '''    :    fia 5
SO UTH  C HV.A
,5 2  Ara
-120                                                                                                                                                                                 1 'A2 ~ t '9 \<       20
_3D L / 5<EA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                          E.PSv  SEr  8
¢;NK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h4a h$be  lpl  by \th W-:,B&k' staff.......... -cf1 ly ,  the}o<,;
>lET ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~udv NAu  -: thOs -p daY                           . -t i\ly - th p.f tW,dB
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~effae  -yjudg-. - lhNS  T-d--1 .
IMzv*   A                                 a-elle-                                                          Sane.t1 be-le
,'.\   Paeelo0                                            &F;EEE20SCr                              c.
aRUl4</ -~~~~Prnceso.... . ,.n
UALA,YkA- f-                                                  hsfsphs  enpeae w h   rrrdE n' tf  cuieyfrterneec
\< ' 0 of thr rAeAothreOt  w;c i ep/ o tl DofteWrdEnad S
w  >  | affiih)<s r udmnonherg s t1ofa tr ororAYnorme-r
<~~~ I                                                        C7tAltO   hbudre
Sv  }(7,>i0                                                                                               1                                                            2



