Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17326 EC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FORA
HEALTH SERVICES MODERNIZATION PROJECT
May 20, 1998
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Human Development Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1998)
Currency Unit = Sucre
Sucre = US$.0001957
US$1.00 = 5109 Sucres
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APOLO Project       Support for Local Organizations Project
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEPAR               Population Center
CONAM               National Modernization Council
DHCNs               Decentralized Health Care Networks
FASBASE Project    II Social Development Project - Health and Nutrition
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
HNP                 Health, Nutrition and Population Sector
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
IEC                 Information, Education and Communication
IERR                Economic Rate of Return
IMCI                Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
INEC                National Institute of Statistics and Census
LCSHD               Latin America and the Caribbean Human Development Department
MCHC                Maternal and Child Health Care
MODERSA             Health Services Modernization Project
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOSTA Project       Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Project
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGOs                Non-governmental Organizations
PAHO/WHO            Pan-American Health Organization/World Health Organization
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PCU                 Project Coordinating Unit
SAS                 Sector Assistance Strategy
SENDA               National Secretariat of Administration
SIL                 Sector Investment Loan
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
TNDP                United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
Vice President                      Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director                    Andres Solimano
Sector Director (A)                 Xavier Coll
Sector Leader                       Constance Corbett
Task Manager                        Patricio Marquez



Ecuador
Health Services Modernization Project
(MODERSA Project)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .............................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators            .2
B. Strategic Context                                   .2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                  .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                      .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices       .4
C. Project Description Summary .S
1. Project Components                                  .5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           .7
3. Benefits and target population                           .7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                    .8
D. Project Rationale                ..10
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection .10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .12
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .12
E. Summary Project Analysis .13
1. Economic .13
2. Financial .13
3. Technical .13
4. Institutional .13
5. Social .14
6. Environmental assessment .14
7. Participatory approach .15
F. Sustainability and Risks .16
1. Sustainability .16
2. Critical risks .16
3. Possible controversial aspects .17
G. Main Loan Conditions ...................................................................  17
1. Effectiveness conditions ...................................................................  17
2. Other .17



H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                                18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .18
Annexes .19
Annex 1   Project Design Summary ...............................  19
Annex 2a   Detailed Project Description .............              .................   24
Annex 2b   Subproject Cycle and Eligibility Criteria ............        ..        ................   33
Annex 2c   Legal Framework for Decentralization ..............                    ................   36
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs ............................... 41
Annex 4      Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis ............            ..................   42
Annex 5  Financial Summary ...............................  46
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    ..............            ................   47
Table Al    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .................         ...................   48
Table A2      Consultant Selection Arrangements ....................................   49
Table B       Thresholds for Procurement Methods & Prior Review ....................................   50
Table C       Allocation and Disbursement of Loan Proceeds ....................... .............  53
Table D       Disbursement Schedule ....................................   54
Annex 7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..................................................................  56
Annex 8    Documents in Project File ...................................................................   57
Annex 9      Statement of Bank Group Operations in Ecuador .....................................................  59
Annex 10   Ecuador at a Glance ...................................................................   61
Map IBRD 28022 ..........                                                                          - 63



Ecuador
Health Services Modernization Project (MODERSA Project)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit (LCC4C)
Human Development Departnent (LCSHD)
Date: 5/20/98                                        Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager: Patricio Marquez
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano      Sector Manager/Director (A): Xavier Coll
Project ID: 39084       Sector: Health, Nutrition, Pop.
Lending Instrument: SIL                              Program of Targeted Intervention:   [XI Yes  [ I |No
Project Financing Data               [X] Loan        II] Credit      [I Guarantee       I  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 45 million
Proposed terms:                         [I]  Multicurrency      [XI Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 5 yrs       [I   Standard Variable  []  Fixed            [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local              Foreign           Total
Central Government                                           8.0                                 8.0
Provincial/Municipal Government                             12.0                                 12.0
IBRD                                                        13.7               31.3              45.0
Total        33.7                31.3             65.0
Borrower: Republic of Ecuador
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Public Health (MOH), Provincial/Municipal Health Boards or Councils or Autonomous
Health Entities
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     1999       2000        2001     2002    2003   2004
Annual    5.1          6.4        10.7     11.8    7.9    3.1
Cumulative    5.1         11.5       22.2      34.0    41.9   45.0
Project implementation period: 1999 - 2004 Expected effectiveness date: Dec.3 1, 1998 Expected closing date:Dec. 31, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 2
Country: Ecuador                                               Health Services Modernization Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed project builds upon and complements the II Social Development Project-Health and Nutrition
(FASBASE Project)', a successful on-going operation. Its overall objective is to assist in expanding access to,
and improving the quality and the efficiency of, ambulatory and hospital services, by developing new health
care organization, financing and managerial models in selected provinces and municipalities. The proposed
project, in conjunction with the FASBASE Project, is expected to contribute to the improvement of health
status of the poor in the mediurm term, particularly mothers and children under 5 years of age.
The development impact of the proposed project would be measured in terms of improvements in two main
indicators over the rest of the decade and early 2 1 " century:
*  Expand access to, and improve the quality and the efficiency of ambulatory and hospital services,
particularly maternal and child health services, for the population in project area, as measured by
increases in the number of people who have access to a program of essential health services.
*  In the medium term, contribute to the reduction of health disparities in project area by achieving
improvements in the health status of population groups that now are at the highest risk of premature death,
disease, and disability (e.g., the poor in general), gauging progress in terms of declining maternal, infant
and under 5 child mortality.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: R97-38 (Progress Report) Date of latest CAS discussion: March 25, 1997
The proposed project would support the CAS's objectives of reducing poverty and improving the country's
human capital base. The project would help to reconfigure the health system with the goal of managing in a
more efficient way public resources, promote integration of public and private services within a decentralized
context, and reallocate health expenditures to health care for the poor. The World Bank is working with other
donors to support reforms and ensure complementarity in lending and technical assistance (e.g., USAID,
PAHO/WHO, Belgium Cooperation Agency, UNDP, UNICEF).
The proposed project is also fully consistent with the World Bank's Strategy in the HNP Sector as stated in
the Sector Strategy Paper: Health, Nutrition and Population Sector (HNP SAS) of September, 1997. More
specifically, the policy advice and financial support to be provided under the project would help operationalize
in Ecuador approaches to the three major World Bank's objectives in the HNP sector: (i) improve the health,
nutrition and reproductive outcomes of the Ecuadorian poor, and protect other segments of the population from
the impoverishing effects of illness, malnutrition, and high fertility; (ii) enhance the performance of health care
systems by promoting equitable access to preventive and curative care, particularly maternal and child health
care, that are affordable, effective, efficient, of good quality, and responsive to clients; and (iii) secure
sustainable health care financing by mobilizing adequate levels of financial resources, and by improving
resource allocation and utilization.
' The FASBASE Project (Ln. 3510-EC) is supporting the Government of Ecuador in: (i) expanding and strengthening
basic health services, including nutrition and water and sanitation, in peri-urban and rural areas; (ii) promoting
community involvement in the organization and financing of health services delivery and rural water and sanitation
programs; (iii) strengthening policy-making and management capacity of public institutions involved in the delivery of
basic health care, nutrition and water and sanitation programs; and (iv) designing sector-wide health care reforms (the
proposed project was prepared with support from the FASBASE Project's PCU). It is also supporting "El Niflo
Phenomenon" emergency efforts in the health sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 3
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues:
The Ecuadorian health system faces significant challenges. The infant mortality rate of 40 per 1,000 live
births is about four times higher than in Cuba (10.2/1,000), Costa Rica (13/1,000), and Chile (14/1,000), and
varies from 30 per 1,000 in cities to 52 per 1,000 in rural areas. Mortality for children aged 1-4 years is 51
per 1,000, a rate that is three times higher than in Chile or Costa Rica. Maternal mortality at 160 per 100,000
live births is more than 20 times the rate of Canada or the United States. The health profile is characterized by
the coexistence of infectious and communicable diseases and non-communicable conditions and injuries.
Diarrheal diseases and respiratory infections together contribute to more than half of infant and child
mortality. At the same time, the incidence of non-communicable health problems and injuries--which are
associated with the aging of the population and with the effects of rapid industrialization and urbanization--are
contributing significantly to potentially productive years lost among adults. The poor present higher rates of
different types of diseases as a result of higher exposure to risk factors and limited access to effective medical
care.
In spite of programmatic and systemic improvements supported under the FASBASE Project, organizational
and operational problems still hinder health services delivery. The health system is highly fragmented; public
and private interaction is at an incipient state. Management and technical weaknesses constrain the
implementation of programns and activities. In the public sector, key management decisions are centralized at
the MOH which detracts from hospital and ambulatory facilities flexibility and the accountability of local
constituencies. Very little strategic planning takes place at the facility level. Management is reactive rather
than proactive in seeking improvement opportunities. There is no continuos and sustained effort to train and
develop management and staff. Systematic information on the quality of care is limited. There is no
widespread application of minimum standards of medical care to assure the quality of service delivery. The
financial environment in which public health facilities operate is characterized by considerable uncertainty.
There are no effective accounting and budgeting systems. The incentive structure is perverse, as financial
resources are allocated to personnel and facilities regardless of their performance or the quality of services
delivered.
Access to basic health services is severely limited for about 3.5 million Ecuadorians, or close to 30 percent of
the population. In addition to suffering a disproportionally high burden of disease, Ecuadorian poor spend a
significant portion of their income on health care, which averages 12 percent of total household expenditures in
cities and 17 percent in rural areas, as opposed to less than 10 percent for the non-poor in both areas.
Government Strate:
Public Sector Modernization Strategy:
During the 1992-96 period, Government made considerable progress on restoring macroeconomic stability and
reducing inflation. In addition, a number of important steps have been taken for creating a new organizational
culture within the public sector to manage in a more efficient way public resources (in excess of 20% of GDP)
in order to foster economic growth. The four key milestones achieved to date have been: (i) the passage of the
1992 Public Budget Law; which seeks to improve the quality of budget formulation and execution by ensuring
that budgetary decisions better reflect national priorities and the opportunity costs of pursuing those
objectives, and put in place a budgetary process consistent with modern management practices, with a more
reliable but less intrusive set of budgetary controls that encourages quality and cost-effectiveness with which
public services are provided; (ii) the enactment of the 1993 Modernization of the State Law which established
the legal framework and incentive base for public entities to efficiently meet clear performance objectives; (iii)
the endorsement by the National Modernization Council (CONAM) of inter-institutional agreements, which



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 4
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
provides an incentive-based strategy for building results-oriented management capacities within public entities
(e.g., institutions can benefit from enhanced management autonomy, and from a new financial and legal
framework required to create a mid-level management and professional corps that is transparently and
competitively recruited, insulated from political interference, competitively remunerated and subject to
effective performance incentives and sanctions); and (iv) the recently-promulgated Decentralization Law of
September 1997, which enables the transfer of authority and resources to municipalities in relation to social
sector management, particularly health services ownership, financing and delivery.
The reform and modernization of the health system supported under the proposed project would build on the
above progress attained so far in reforming the public sector.
Health Sector Strategv:
Policy Letter of November 13, 1997, signed by the President of Ecuador and the Minister of Health and
addressed to the President of the World Bank, outlines the Government's Health Sector Reform and
Modernization Program and serves as a framework for the implementation of the proposed project. The
overall objective of the Program is to improve the health status of the population, particularly the poor, by
facilitating access to quality health services in an efficient and sustainable way. To this end, the following
options (which are complementary and not mutually exclusive) would be pursued:
*   Amend existing legislation to reinforce MOH's role in policy making, regulating, and defining
sectoral priorities.
*   Decentralize responsibility for health care decision-making in the public sector to provincial and
municipal bodies, in a participatory function, to ensure responsiveness to local conditions.
*   Convert public hospitals and ambulatory centers into semi-autonomous organizations operating
as integrated health care networks.
*   Establish contracting arrangements among public and private institutions using different
reimbursement methods to foster competition and consumer choice.
*   Adopt regulatory mechanisms and promote standardization of benefit plans to discourage
segmentation and risk selection in the private health insurance market.
*   Develop quality assurance mechanisms, including a hospital accreditation system.
The proposed project, along with the FASBASE Project, in effect represent the vehicles for achieving
Government goals in the health sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Building upon the decentralization efforts supported under the FASBASE Project, the proposed project would
help improve in the medium term the health status of poor and underserved population groups by expanding
the coverage of health services at the provincial and municipal levels. To help create a system that is more
equitable, efficient, and integrated, that provides high quality of care, and in which the distinct character and
autonomy of the various institutional providers are preserved, integrated public/private health care networks
would be developed at the provincial and municipal levels, as well as new hospital organization and
management models. Health facilities would be given greater managerial control and operational flexibility-
specifically in the areas of budgeting, staffing and program planning-to more effectively meet the needs of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 5
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
local populations. Also, to increase accountability, various methods would be developed to reimburse
providers. In addition, the project would support Government's decentralization efforts through the direct
involvement of provincial, municipal and hospital teamns in the preparation and implementation of municipal
and hospital subprojects.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
pco ntci.              Ba k
- ~ ~~ -f --o
.  ;-. .: .'' . . . . . .     .. -::. : .. : z . -1:  - . .  :-   _   - .   :I
__________  ____________    U SSM Y     Ih ni ug
I. Decentralized Health Systems      Physical,       40.6        62.5      26.8         60
Subprojects.                          Policy,
Sponsored by provinces or           Institutional
municipalities and/or autonomous     Building
local health entities using project's
eligibility criteria (Annex 2b),
subprojects would finance the
establishment of Decentralized Health
Care Networks (DHCNs) for the
delivery of a program of essential
health services, particularly maternal
and child health services, by public
and private providers. They would
include: (i) rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure,
equipment, medical supplies, and staff
training to reinforce the capacity to
provide appropriate and timely quality
health care on an ambulatory and in-
patient basis; (ii) systems development
and technical assistance to modernize
health care organization and
management structures and practices,
including management information,
health care financing and quality
assurance systems, and human
resources development; (iii) financing
demand of medical care to support the
integration of public and private
providers through contracting
instruments and procedures and the
use of new payments mechanisms; (iv)
information, education and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 6
Country: Ecuador                                                  Health Services Modernization Project
Co si;.<.t. Inc -      B a k .  -    ...   .....%o.
Cmonent                Caesor    Cn inenCieV:             1 inancing    Bnk
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _   __  _ __  _    |   f    ftg;            g:   tt   0t-0-fi        ;j$--(U S$M )  .-   i; j    ~W    S f UtS $M i    El fin n i ,
communication activities; and (v)
monitoring, impact evaluation, and
dissemination of local experiences.
1I. Hospital Modernization            Physical,       18.3        28.2      12.8        28.5
Subprojects.                           Policy,
The subprojects would finance       Institutional
systems development and technical     Building
assistance, training, rehabilitation,
upgrading and maintenance of civil
works, equipment, and supplies for
supporting hospitals selected using
project's eligibility criteria
(Operations Manual) in modemizing
their organization and governance
structure, management practices, and
improving health care quality. More
specifically, the subprojects would
support: (i) development of semi-
autonomous managerial arrangements
including user participation; (ii)
strengthening of planning and
decision making; (iii) development of
human resources through selective
training and continuing education,
performance incentives, and career
development; (iv) implementation of
financial administration systems and
management information and quality
assurance systems; (v) revamping cost
recovery policies and systems; and
(vi) development of new resource
allocation mechanisms for hospital
care.
III. Policy Development, Human        Policy,          2.2        3.4       1.8         4.0
Resources Management, and            Institution-
Consensus Building.                   Buildng
Under this component, the project     Building
would finance: (i) technical assistance
to develop policies, laws and
respective regulations to set forth the
regulatory and monitoring role of the
MOH and the advisory functions of
the National Health Council



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 7
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
. ... .. ..... B.nk-                                                 %   of
., Cm ne                  Cat-eorv- C-nti-e 1icieto           flnir        Ba
X_ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _   : _ _ _ _ _      : 1 ~ M    -_ _ _---_:_-:[ |-  (U S $M )  - in a in
(NHC); to develop human resource
policies and strategies, including
formnulation of amendments to the
current Civil Service Law and Labor
Code under which the health system
employees are ruled; and to update
health provisions of existing Health
Code; and (ii) information, education
and communication activities to
achieve consensus on health care
reform.
IV. Project Administration.        Project            3.9        6.0        3.6         8.0
Management of overall project      Management
implementation by national and local
units.
________________-____________    _      -  Total          0       100        45.0      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support decentralization (i.e., delegation of political, economic, administrative and
financial management powers and duties from the Central Government to provincial and municipal
governments) and deconcentration (i.e., delegation of administrative and financial functions from the Ministry
of Health to directors of its own hospitals) in the health system (see Annex 2c). To the above ends, the project
would assist in the development of priority setting instruments (e.g., definition of a program of essential
health services), economic and financial instruments (e.g., new systems for generating and allocating
financial resources), quality setting instruments (e.g., quality assurance mechanisms), and institutional
configuration instruments (e.g., initiation of the conversion of public facilities into semi-autonomous or
autonomous entities, contracting mechanisms, management information systems, regulatory mechanisms).
Additionally, it would assist in the development of laws and respective regulations to operationalize recently-
approved amendments to the Constitution to further enable the modernization and decentralization of the health
system (these amendments will be enacted after the remaining articles of the Constitution are considered by the
Constitutional Assembly).
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would introduce reformed models for improving the access to, and the quality and the efficiency
of, health services at the provincial and municipal levels and for managing public hospitals as semi-
autonomous referral centers, providing the experience required to replicate the model effectively on a national
basis over the next decade. Community involvement through provincial and municipal health boards or
councils, hospital committees and local promotion and education activities, would contribute to sustainable
gains in service relevance and quality.
It is expected that the above activities would help alleviate poverty in the medium term and increase human
capital among the poor by contributing to the improvement of health status of the population. In particular, it



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 8
Countly: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
is expected that infant and child survival and maternal health would be improved. Patient satisfaction would
be achieved by improved access, opportunity and quality of medical care.
The potential total beneficiary population is estimated at about 2 million or about 20% of the total population
in the country. The project would support demonstration models in 10 provinces and municipalities and 8
hospitals with eligible subprojects. Initial demonstration models would be set up in the Municipality of
Cuenca (pop. 150,000) and in the Municipality of Tena (pop. 51,600), and in one hospital in Quito (Enrique
Garces), one in Cuenca (Vicente Corral Moscoso), and one in Tena (Josd Maria Velasco Ibarra). In order to
introduce flexibility in project design, the rest of participating provinces, municipalities and hospitals would be
selected according to the criteria specified in Annex 2b during project implementation (Project Implementation
Action Plans in project files).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years
Executing agencies
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Project implementation would be coordinated by the MOH through the
PCU. Ministerial Decree No. 2310 of September 5, 1995 established the PCU for managing project
preparation. The PCU is headed by a General Coordinator under the direct responsibility of the Minister of
Public Health, who is assisted by technical and administrative teams. The PCU's main functions are: (i)
provide technical assistance to local teams, as well as monitor and supervise the implementation of
decentralized and hospital subprojects; (ii) coordinate technical assistance for the undertaking of legal, policy
and institutional reform assessments, and the implementation of consensus building activities; (iii) support the
procurement of goods and services under the subprojects, and coordinate the financial flows for project
implementation; and (iv) provide the World Bank with reports on the status of project implementation.
Technical teams, headed by Technical Coordinators, would be responsible for coordinating and supervising
specific technical activities of the project as set forth in the Operations Manual for the project. The PCU
would also include a Financial Administrative Unit, headed by a Financial and Administrative Coordinator and
staffed with professional and support personnel as needed, responsible for providing administrative and
financial support for all project activities, including the maintenance of accounting records, processing
disbursements, maintaining administrative records, contracts, and the carrying out of related activities. The
Financial Administrative Unit would review all contracts and make payments for activities related to the
project. The PCU would contract a procurement agent, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
World Bank, to assist in procurement activities to be carried out under the project, and to train PCU staff and
local staff on procurement matters relevant to the project. During the implementation of the ongoing
FASBASE Project and in project preparation, PCU staff developed expertise in technical and administrative
and financial aspects of investment projects supported by the World Bank. UNDP served as the procurement
agent for the PCU during project preparation.
The financial management assessment conducted during project appraisal found that the accounting systems
and procedures, planning and budgeting, internal controls, computerized accounting system, project
accountability, special account and SOE procedures, project financial management reports and audit
arrangements were acceptable.
Provincial/Municipal Boards or Councils and Hospital Directors or Boards. The components for the
proposed project would be implementing decentralization/deconcentration/public participation schemes (Annex
2-C). Under Component I, the decentralization of functions to the Provincial or Municipal Governments for
establishing integrated health care networks would take place with a required forum for public participation



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 9
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
which most likely would be through Provincial, Municipal or Health Boards or Councils (Junta Provincial o
Cantonal de Salud or Consejo Provincial o Cantonal de Salud). Municipal Health Boards have already
been established with project support in the first project regions (Cuenca and Tena). Subprojects under
Component I may also be implemented by autonomous health agencies (e.g., Junta de Beneficencia de
Guayaquil). Under Component II, the deconcentration of management and administrative functions from the
MOH to the directors of its hospitals leading to a gradual autonomy of such hospitals would be done through
Ministerial Resolutions to be issued as the respective hospital qualifies to participate in the proposed project.
Operations Manual
During appraisal a draft Operations Manual was reviewed and a revised version was submitted to the World
Bank prior to negotiations. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government adopts an
Operations Manual satisfactory to the World Bank. It would include model participation and executing
agreements; guidelines for preparing and implementing provincial/municipal and hospital subprojects; plan of
action matrix for provincial/municipal and hospital subprojects, including a detailed description of critical
activities organized in stages; as well as technical norms and administrative, budgetary, disbursements and
procurement procedures to be followed during project implementation.
Proiect Implementation Agreements
For the preparation and implementation of provincial/municipal and hospital subprojets, Participatory
(Framework) Agreements between (i) MOH and provincial or municipal entities willing to participate in the
project, and (ii) MOH and hospitals authorities, and Executing Agreements for specific investmnents between
MOH and participating provincial or municipal and or autonomous health entities would be signed.
Provincial or municipal entities would contract with health providers (e.g., hospitals, ambulatory facilities) the
services referred to in the Executing Agreements. Drafts of the Participatory and the Executing Agreements
are contained in the project's Operations Manual.  Such agreements would aim  at supporting the
decentralization and deconcentration processes in the health sector, and the participation of public and private
health care institutions.
The above agreements would establish the overall framework for the activities to be carried out under the
provincial or municipal and hospital subprojects. Such subprojects would be prepared, evaluated and
executed in accordance with the Operations Manual for the project. The PCU would act as a liaison agency
with the World Bank and, with the support of a procurement agent, would be responsible for the procurement
and disbursement process pursuant to the World Bank's applicable rules; in case of non-compliance by any
province or municipality and hospital of any of its obligations the MOH's PCU may suspend or cancel the
financing of any of the activities originally assigned to such province or municipality or autonomous health
entity and hospital, and reallocate the respective resources to other provinces, municipalities or autonomous
health entities and hospitals as provided in the project's Operations Manual. The first disbursement for each
decentralized and hospital subproject would be subject to the signing of Participatory and Executing
agreements.
Accounting. financial renortina. and auditing arrangements
The financial administration of the project (including contracting and disbursement) would be coordinated by
the PCU, with the support from a procurement agent. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account with a
90-day advance would be established. The project would be audited annually by an independent private
auditor acceptable to the World Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 10
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modenization Project
Monitoring and evaluation
The supervision of the decentralized and hospital subprojects would be carried out by MOH teams supported
by PCU staff and consultants. The proposed project includes specific outputs and outcomes to be monitored
(Annex 1) and incorporates a comprehensive monitoring and impact evaluation system, including action plans
for the implementation of key steps to be carried out under provincial or municipal and hospital subprojects.
Progress reports regarding project implementation results and expenditure for the preceding six months and a
related review of achievements and shortfalls based on established plans and objectives, would be sent by the
PCU to the World Bank every six months. The two reports covering the immediate prior calendar year shall
be consolidated into an annual review held by the World Bank and the PCU in the third quarter of each
calendar year during project implementation. Each such review shall conclude with the preparation of an
annual plan of action to be carried out by the PCU during the year following the review. A mid-term review
would be carried out at the beginning of the third year of project implementation. The mid-term review would
evaluate, among other things: (i) progress in completion of the critical stages defined in the implementation
arrangements for the provincial or municipal and hospital subprojects; (ii) compliance with the Loan
Agreement's legal covenants; (iii) adequacy of availability of project financing; (iv) compliance with
procurement and disbursement arrangements; and (v) the quarterly progress reports. Additionally, the
Government and the World Bank would review the status of impact indicators referred to in Annex 1. The
above evaluative information would be used to continuously improve project design and implementation
strategy during the life of the project, as well as to assess the impact of the project at its completion.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
One altemative design would have been a top-down, fully-detailed blueprint design. However, in the context
of this project, a blueprint project for each province or municipality and hospital would have been too rigid
given the social and economic, as well as the institutional, heterogeneity of the country. Instead, the project is
designed as a broad common fund to finance in a gradual and incremental manner policy and institutional
reforms at the provincial or municipal level, at selected hospitals, and at the central level according to an
agreed set of criteria and procedures.  This allows for participatory approaches to engage different
stakeholders, including potential beneficiaries at the local level, test out a wider range of policy and
institutional reform instruments on a small scale to learn and incorporate lessons of experience, and build
implementation capacity through human resources development.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 11
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing andplanned):
Sector Issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Formn 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Basic Health and Nutrition Services,    Ecuador, Second Social    S               S
Basic Sanitation and Safe Water,    Development Project --
Institutional Strengthening        Health and Nutrition
(FASBASE) (Ln. 35 10-
EC, US$70m)
Public Sector Reform; Institutional  Ecuador Modernization        S               S
Strengthening                       of the State Technical
Assistance (Ln.3822-
EC, US$20m)
Other develooment azencies
Policy Development; Institutional   CEPAR--Policy
Reforrn                             Development and Health
Reform (financed by
USAID; US$2.6m)
Primary health care for low-income  CARE-Ecuador--
families and strengthening institutional   Support for Local     NA             NA
capacity                            Organizations--APOLO
Project (financed by
USAID; US$4.7m)
Primary health care                 Child Survival and
Health Project (financed
by USAID; US$9.3m)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 12
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design builds on the experience of relevant operations financed by the World Bank group over the
past decade, including the ongoing FASBASE Project in Ecuador, as well as from other international
experiences. Key lessons incorporated in project design are: (i) project objectives and scope are linked to a
clear policy framework; (ii) strong government and stakeholder commitment, particularly from provincial and
municipal entities and community organizations, has been obtained; (iii) financing of critical investments to
improve quality of medical care are linked to the implementation of policy and institutional reforms; (iv) the
project would support systems and human resource development to increase decision-making and management
capacity of sectoral institutions; (v) specialized technical assistance is included in project design to support
preparation and implementation of subprojects, and targeted technical supervision by the World Bank is
planned; (vi) the PCU would be assisted by an procurement agent to avoid delays in the procurement of goods
and services for the project associated with cumbersome norms and procedures in the Ecuadorian public
sector; and (vi) an adequate monitoring and impact evaluation system has been developed to allow
adjustrnents to be made in project design and implementation arrangements during the life of the project.
Additionally, during project preparation, with international technical assistance support ((i) California
Consortium, that included Prof Alain Enthoven of Stanford University; and (ii) and a team of the Johns
Hopkins University School of Public Health), country experiences with network creation and hospital
autonomy were reviewed and lessons learned were incorporated in project design (see project files).
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
*  Health Policy Letter by the President of Ecuador to the President of the World Bank dated November 13,
1997, outlining Government's medium-term goals for the sector, the sector reform program, and the
commitment to finance and implement these reforms in conjunction with provincial and municipal entities.
*  Follow up letters sent to the World Bank by the President of Ecuador, Minister of Health, and Secretary
General of the National Development Council (CONADE) dated April 2, 1998, April 1, 1998, and April
2, 1998, respectively, reiterating their support for the proposed project.
*  Approval by the Constitutional Assembly on April 2, 1998, of amendments to the Constitution which, in
regards to the health sector, contain provisions which would further enable the modernization and
decentralization of the health sector contemplated by the proposed project.
*  Initial participation agreements for project implementation signed between the Ministry of Health and the
Mayors of the two pilot regions (Municipalities of Cuenca and Tena), as well as letter dated May 7, 1998,
signed by the General Secretary of the Ecuadorian Association of Municipalities confirming their support
for the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank
* has helped transfer the experience from similar projects worldwide, both in the technical design of the
project and in the introduction of implementation arrangements that ensure a successful operation
* supported the establishment of technical cooperation arrangements with other countries, such as Chile,
Colombia and the United States;
* would provide oversight on the use of funds, consistent with World Bank procurement and disbursement
guidelines;



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 13
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
* would support technical oversight during project implementation to facilitate the identification of
adjustments, if necessary.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$43 million; IERR= 36%
Cost-benefit analysis: Estimating a 10-year stream of benefits and costs, the net present value of the benefits
(NPV) is about US$43 million, with an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 36 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis: If the project were delayed by 2 years, the NPV and IERR would be reduced to US$11.6
million and 22 percent, respectively. If the benefits were to be reduced by 40 percent, NPV and IERR would
be reduced to US$5 million and 18 percent, respectively.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
The proposed project would have a moderate and manageable impact on the MOH's budget. At present, the
ongoing FASBASE Project accounts for about US$7 million per year of the MOH's budget and will close in 2
years. The counterpart funding required for the implementation of the proposed project amounts to US$20
million in 5 years with a peak of US$6 million in year 3 (after the ongoing FASBASE Project has closed). It
is important to note that of the US$20 million, only US$8 million are expected to come from the central
government budget (no more than US$2.5 million in any given year) and the rest from local governments and
community financing (e.g., user charges in public health facilities).
3. Technical:
The project is technically justified. Given Ecuador's health profile, the proposed project would target at
specific maternal and childhood problems, as well as particular adult health programs. Building upon
successful experiences under the FASBASE Project, the proposed project would support the provision of a
program of essential health services formed by those interventions that cost-effectiveness analysis has shown
to be the very best investments for health (e.g., a set of public health interventions, such as the expanded
program of immunizations, health and nutrition education; as well as essential clinical services, such as
management of the sick child (IMCI), pre-natal, delivery and post-partum-care, promotion of reproductive
care, including family planning services, treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, and curative care,
including assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma). This approach to
expand health care coverage would help avoid the pitfalls of classical universality, whose promise of
"everything for everyone" has proven to be unsustainable even in the richest countries.
The proposed move to decentralization, introduction of various modes of contracting from both the public and
private sector, and the conversion of public hospitals into semi-autonomous organizations all seem consistent
with improving the performance of the existing system and with the directions being taken in other
international health sector reforms, and in the World Bank's HNP Sector Strategy mentioned before.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Ministry of Public Health, Provincial and Municipal or Autonomous Health
Entities, Hospital Units
b. Project management: PCU



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 14
Country: Ecuador                                               Health Services Modernization Project
Laws enacted by Congress during the 1990s provide an enabling framework for decentralization and
implementation of the proposed project (Annex 2-C). Amendments to the Constitution approved by the
Constitutional Assembly in April 1998 would further enable the modernization and decentralization of the
health system contemplated under the proposed project.
However, the institutional capacity of the public health institutions is weak at the different levels of the health
system. In response to this challenge, project implementation would emphasize pilot activities and incremental
changes, and be linked to decentralization and public sector reform and modernization strategies and programs
for the public sector as a whole (e.g., coordination with MOSTA Project and other public sector reform
initiatives). Institutional capacity of participating provinces, municipalities and hospitals would be reviewed
as part of subproject preparation and a specialized technical assistance program would be included as part of
each subproject to strengthen their institutional capacity during implementation. Coordination with other
donor agencies would be promoted to avoid duplication of efforts and to maximize support for the
implementation of policy and institutional reforms. Technical assistance to be provided under the project
would help: (i) improve preparation of subprojects; (ii) strengthen the management of the provincial or
municipal boards or councils and hospital implementation units, so as to improve the implementation of
subprojects; this would result in increases in efficiency through better programming, management, and
monitoring of subprojects; and (iii) help provincial and municipal entities and participating hospitals set up
and consolidate multisector teams.
The PCU is already well organized and staffed. The administrative arrangements are acceptable and the staff
hired for the PCU have the necessary background and experience; some of them were involved in the
preparation and implementation of the ongoing FASBASE Project. The proposed project would facilitate the
actual decentralization of decisions and management of resources by delegating to provincial and municipal
entities and staff in participating hospitals the analysis of needs, as well as the programming and utilization of
financing for improving health care organization and delivery.
S. Social:
The strategy for project preparation has been participatory and emphasized broad consultation. Active
involvement by institutional representatives was achieved, particularly by provincial and municipal
governments, community organizations and universities. A stakeholder assessment, conducted during project
preparation, demonstrated considerable support for reform among health service users, private sector
providers, NGOs, business community and labor groups (in project files). Survey respondents agreed that the
health system requires to be reformed and modernized. However, pressure to maintain the status quo is strong
among some sectoral actors. Many benefit from the chaotic nature of the sector and the well-documented
disorganization, inefficiency and ineffectiveness of its public institutions. As a result, the effectiveness and
viability of the reform process would require strong political support from higher levels of government and
broad stakeholder consultation and participation. The participatory activities initiated during preparation
would continue during implementation, particularly to inform and mobilize the beneficiaries and their
representatives at the provincial and municipal levels, in participating hospitals, and with new Government
and Congress after August 1998, and in operating the provincial and municipal health boards or councils (see
Annex 2-c).
6. Environmental assessment:      Environmental Category [] A   [X] B   []C
The infrastructure works of the provincial subprojects would be limited to rehabilitation and equipping of
existing health facilities, and are expected to have no negative environmental impact. Environmental
construction and management norms for health facilities, including internal waste management, personnel



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 15
Country: Ecuador                                             Health Services Modernization Project
health and safety provisions for the operation of equipment would be part of the Operations Manual for the
project.
On the basis of an environmental assessment in a sample of public health facilities prepared for the MOH
(Informe del Programa Piloto del Manejo de Desechos Hospitalarios/Provincia de Pichincha/Fundacion
Natura, dated August 1996, and Informe de Situacidn del Manejo de Residuos Hospitalarios para la
Ficha Ambiental del Proyecto, dated November 1997, prepared for the World Bank-supported project), the
project, in accordance with existing MOH regulations for the management of medical waste in public health
facilities (Reglamento para el Manejo de Desechos en los Establecimientos de Salud del Ecuador, dated
March 1997), would support the following specific activities: (i) as part of an overall accreditation/quality
assurance process, the formulation and approval of norms, policies and enforcement mechanisms to control
and manage liquid and solid waste in hospitals and ambulatory facilities; (ii) development and implementation
of training and environmental education programs on waste management for health authorities and personnel
of hospitals and ambulatory facilities, and (iii) under subprojects, rehabilitation of infrastructure and the
installation of equipment and systems for the "self-contained" treatment of liquid and solid wastes in hospitals
and ambulatory facilities located in areas in which local systems lack infrastructure for adequate treatment.
Also, hospitals and ambulatory facilities receiving project financing would be required to establish training
programs and systems for waste management. All of the above measures have been included in the Operations
Manual for the project.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Identification/Preparation Implementation    Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups   IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL
Intermediary NGOs      IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL         IS, CON, COL
Academic institutions   IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL
Local government     IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL
Other donors     IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL
Note: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON) and collaboration (COL)



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 16
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would be sustainable because it enjoys support at the highest political levels; major sectoral
stakeholders, particularly provincial and municipal governments, have been involved in project preparation and
would participate in project implementation assuring country ownership; the fiscal impact of the investments is
modest; and project implementation would be coordinated by a strong technical group at the PCU with support
from provincial and municipal boards or councils and different departments of the MOH at the central level.
On the basis of initial estimates and commitments, it is expected that with the full implementation of the
Decentralization Law, sufficient revenues would be available to permit participating provinces and
municipalities, in conjunction with community financing, cofinance subprojects.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                Risk Ratin             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to
Objective"
Startup project implementation         M        Continued involvement of major stakeholders (e.g.
coincides with change in Government             provincial and municipal authorities--only central
that may affect project ownership and           government authorities will change after the
delay its implementation.                       Presidential and Congressional elections-- and
beneficiaries); pro-active dialogue with new
authorities prior to and after of change of
Government, close coordination with other
international donors in supporting health reform.
Amendments to the Constitution concerning health
sector reforms supported under the project already
approved by the Constitutional Assembly in April
1998.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to
Outputs"
Number and variety of actors involved  M        Assigning clear project management and
(central level, provinces, and                 implementation responsibilities to the MOH'sPCU,
municipalities, hospital directors or           provincial, municipal or autonomous health
boards).                                        entities, hospital directors or boards. Flexible
project design.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 17
Country: Ecuador                                             Health Services Modernization Project
Insufficient provincial or municipal   M       Project implementation would follow a gradual
capacity, and at participating                 and incremental approach to allow for institutional
hospitals.                                     building; project implementation, with MOH
support, would proceed independently in each
province, municipality and hospital, diminishing
the risk of administrative bottlenecks affecting the
project as a whole; specialized technical assistance
is included in project design to support the
preparation and implementation of subprojects;
periodic monitoring and supervision; a
procurement agent would provide administrative
and financial management support. Also,
technical assistance to be provided by FASBASE
Project PCU, as well as close coordination with
MOSTA Project that is supporting the public
sector reforms.
Limited funds to finance recurrent     M       Financing of recurrent costs on a declining basis;
costs.                                         modest fiscal impact; on the basis of the successful
experiences generated under the FASBASE
Project, provincial, municipal and community
financing (i.e., cost recovery) incorporated as part
of project's cofinancing arrangements.
Approval of poor-quality subprojects   L        Using transparent eligibility and evaluation criteria
on the basis of political patronage.           for the selection of subprojects; independent
monitoring and financial audits.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Adoption by Government of Operations Manual satisfactory to the World Bank.
2. Other /classifY according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreementsjl:
The main conditions are:
Implementation of the project in conformance with an Operational Manual covering provincial, municipal or



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 18
Country: Ecuador                                               Health Services Modernization Project
autonomous health entity and hospital participation criteria, and subproject eligibility and evaluation criteria
Maintenance of PCU acceptable to the World Bank
Undertake project monitoring and impact evaluation
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x I Not applicable.
[x ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[x I This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Patricio Marquez, Task Manager                       Andr  Sol   , CMU Director
X/    t
Xavi    i,Drctr()  CH



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 19
Country: Ecuador                                                  Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 1
Project Design Summary
G~ata Sawwaary      Key Pgrrorxmuicc bidkators    Meau tAauhm3eut    i.ask Awnnp*io~as
CAS Obiective
Poverty alleviation and  Poverty indicators; human  INEC data and other     Government
human resources         resources development      Government health        ownership of project
development            indicators                  statistics
Project Development
Obiectives
Improve access to, and  Increased coverage of health    MOH health statistics;  Political and financial
efficiency and quality of,  services to 2 million persons   sample surveys;  support for project
health services,                                   monitoring/evaluation of   policy and
particularly maternal and  In the medium term, in  project implementation    institutional reforms,
child health care, in   conjunction with FASBASE                            at central and
participating provinces    Project, reduce maternal                         municipal levels
and municipalities.     mortality by 50%; infant and
under 5 child mortality by
30% (proposed reductions
consistent with observed
trends over the last two
decades)
COMPONENTS
Decentralized Health
Systems Subproiects
10 organized            *  Provincial/Municipal    *  Local decrees issued   Decentralization of
Decentralized Health       Health Boards or            by Provincial and    decisions and
Care Networks (DHCNs):     Councils or Autonomous      Municipal authorities  resources by MOH
--1999: 3 under            Health Entities legally                         to provinces and
implementation; 2 under    established in project  *  Project records      municipalities, as
preparation                areas                                            required by newly-
--2000: 3 under         .  Agreements signed                               enacted law.
implementation; 3 under    between MOH and local                           National and local
preparation; 2 concluded   entities for organizing                          political support for
--2001: 3 under            and managing DHCNs                              establishing DHCNs.
implementation; 3 under   *  Local Health Fund     *  Project records      Provincial and
preparation; 3 concluded   designed, including                              Municipal or
--2002: 2 under            provisions for                                  Autonomous Health
implementation; 2 under    contributions from central                       entities with capacity
preparation; 3 concluded   and local governments, as                       for affiliating users
--2003: 2 under            well as from user charges                       and managing
implementation; 2                                                          contracts.
concluded
Population affiliated to  *  Performance agreements   *  Project records   Funds deposited in
DHCNs                      and contracts entered                            local accounts
with public and private
providers for delivering
program of essential
health services to DHCN
affiliates



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 20
Country: Ecuador                                                  Health Services Modernization Project
Improved organization   *  Resource allocation     Proposals; detailed      Timely and adequate
and management capacity    mechanisms to providers  designs of mechanisms   financial allocations
of DHCNs                   developed and adapted at  and systems; mechanisms  by central and local
DHCNs                   and systems operating in   governments; user
.  Management infornation  participating institutions.  charges collected
systems developed and  Training contracts.
adapted at DHCNs       Courses developed.       Stability of qualified
*  Administrative and                              personnel at policy
financial personnel                             making, management
trained                                         and operational levels
Improved access to      *  80% of affiliated       Health utilization
quality basic health care  pregnant women with     statistics; quality of care
by poor affiliated to      four prenatal visits before  assessments; patient
DHCNs                      delivery                satisfaction surveys
*  90% of affiliated
pregnant women
delivered in network
facilities
*  95% of affiliated children
with complete
immunizations
*  Clinical standards met in
basic health care package
*  Quality assurance systems
implemented in DHCNs
*  User satisfaction with
accessibility and quality
of DHCN services
Community Participation   *  Community members     Composition of Provincial
represented in local   and Municipal Health or
health entities        Autonomous entities and
*  Community members       DHCN Boards
represented in DHCN
Boards



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 21
Country: Ecuador                                                    Health Services Modernization Project
HosDital Modernization   Hospitals meet criteria of:  MOH data, assessments  Project ownership
Subnroiects             *  Provincial or national     conducted by            and commitment of
8 hospitals:                facility                  MODERSA team with    hospital directors and
--1999: 2 under             v Regional representation and  hospital directors and  staff, political
implementation; 1 under     visibility for reproducing  staff                 support from central
preparation             *  change or Hospital Board                           and local authorities
Director oHoptlBadand other
--2000: 3 under             willing to lead hospital                          stakeholders
implementation; 2 under     change
preparation; 1 concluded   *  Hospital task force
--2001: 2 under             assembled to propose
implementation; 3 under     institutional change
preparation; 2 concluded   *  Signed agreement with
2002: 2 under               MOH to undertake hospital
implementation; 2 under     modernization, and have
preparation; 3 concluded    access to project financing
*  Learning network organized
2003: 2 under
implementation; 2       *  Hospital Management        Technical assistance
concluded                   Committee established     provided by MODERSA   Politcal support from
*  Institutional diagnosis   to selected hospitals for   central and local
Strategic and               made (rapid assessment    developing subproject    govemments and
organizational plan         survey)                   proposals and action    sectoral stakeholders
prepared                .  Vision, mission, goals,    plans                   Implementation of
strategy discussed, accepted                     MOH/Hospital
*  Institutional Reform                              Agreement backed up
Proposal approved by                             by financial
MODERSA, including                               resources.
autonomous, decentralized                        Hospital staff willing
management, measures for                         to change
improving allocative and                         organizational
technical efficiency, as well                    structures and
as quality of care                               processes.
Technical assistance by
*  Accounting, costs,        MODERSA to selected   Hospital staff willing
New financial, human        budgeting, treasury, billing,  hospitals for developing  to cooperate with
resources, and supplies     purchasing, payment,      Techmnialgassitac forl. isiutoa  n
management tools in         statics, inventoty         Technical assistance for   manaleant
hospital administration     developed with consultants.  developing Quality   managemen
*  Seminars, workshops        Assuroance Program, and
carried out.              performance/salary
*  Quality assurance teams   proposals
organized.
a  Performance/salary policies
defined.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 22
Country: Ecuador                                                  Health Services Modernization Project
.~~~~~r-
Investment Plan         *  Investment priorities set.                       Political and
*  Cost-effectiveness assessed.                     financial support by
.  Quality control set.                             central government
*  Equipment purchased.                             secured
Policy Develooment.     .  National Health Council    Technical assistance
Human Resources             role and authority defined    contracts financed under  Consensus on policy
Mana2ement. and         *  Democratic participation of  MODERSA.            issues with CONAM,
Consensus Building         other sectoral and social  Procurement of required  SENDA, Ministry of
actors defined           goods and services.    Finance, trade
.  Constitutional Reforms                           unions, opinion
MOH/National Health        approved by Constitutional                       leaders, and other
Council Chan2es             Assembly and enacted as    Technical assistance  sectoral stakeholders.
part of new Constitution  provided by MODERSA.
1999: Health System Law   .  MOH roles redefined as  Analysis of legal,
Developed                   policy maker, norms setter,  institutional,
2000: Amendments to        regulator, evaluator      organizational, and
Civil Service Law and   *  .MOH reorganization       financial implications of
labor Code under which     proposed                  relevant laws conducted.
the health sector       *  Organizational and        National Assembly and
employees are ruled        mngmn ol hne               ogesoa
2001:ee arnew HuealhCde    management tools changed   Congressional
200 1: A new Health Code                             documents.
formulated              .  Amendments to existing                           Political support to
laws and policy proposals                       MOH role changes.
e,n alternatives for human
resources management
including: decentralization,  Technical assistance and
flexible contracting,    Techops finance by
performance/salary       Workshops financed by
incentives prepared.     MODERSA
.  Recommendations on
ILJniversity education
reforms for health careers
*  Curriculum reform                                Strong political
Human resources policy                        .                             support from central
development                medical and nursing                              government; active
schools to help them better                     involvement and
prepare health personnel for                    participation of
working under the propose                       univentes.
integrated network scheme.                      training centers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 23
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
Consensus buildine for   *  Information,            Technical assistance by   Consensus building
health reform              communication and        MODERSA.               is a long process; it
education plan developed.   Proposals and action  requires a multi-
.                           plans developed and    faceted information-
*  National and regional    implemented.           sharing and
seminars conducted.      Legislation enacted.   problem-solving
approach.
Project records.       Consensus building
strategy should
include a number of
activities that
provide an
opportunity for the
discussion of issues
and the resolution of
major disagreements
among key
stakeholders.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 24
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 2a
ECUADOR
HEALT'H SERVICES MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Proiect Description
The proposed project builds upon and complements the II Social Development Project--Health and Nutrition, a
successful on-going operation. The overall objective of the project is to assist in expanding access to, and
improving the quality and the efficiency of, ambulatory and hospital services, by developing new health care
organization, financing and managerial models in selected provinces and municipalities. The project, in
conjunction with the FASBASE Project, is expected to contribute to the improvement of health status of the
poor in the medium term.
To the above ends, in line with Government decision to decentralize and modernize public administration, the
project would support the development of decentralized demonstration models for integrating public and
private providers into health care networks operating under performance agreements or contracts for the
delivery of services. Additionally, the project would provide assistance to integrate selected provincial and
national hospitals into local networks as semi-autonomous referral centers. It is expected that this approach
would help foster a productive and supportive relationship between provincial and municipal health authorities
and participating providers in progressing a shared agenda to develop an optimum pattern of patient services
for their residents from the basis of agreed policies and programs. The project would also support technical
assistance to focus on the Ministry of Health (MOH)'s policy-making and regulatory role, the National Health
Council's advisory functions, human resources management, and health reform-related consensus building
activities.
The proposed project would facilitate the actual decentralization of decisions and management of resources by
delegating to provincial and municipal entities and staff in participating hospitals in the project area the
analysis of needs, as well as the programming and utilization of financing for improving health care
organization and delivery.
Proiect Area
The proposed project includes: (i) a specific geographic area scope, i.e., selected provinces and municipalities
and hospitals, for decentralized demonstration models financed under subprojects selected through a demand-
driven mechanism, i.e., subprojects generated and proposed by provinces and municipalities and hospitals; and
(ii) a national scope for technical assistance, specifically for the development of sector policy, laws and
regulations, as well as consensus building activities.
The potential beneficiary population is estimated at about 2 million or about 20% of the total population of the
country. The project would support demonstration models in 10 provinces and municipalities and 8 hospitals
with eligible subprojects. Initial demonstration models have been be set up in the Municipality of Cuenca
(pop. 150,000) and Tena (pop. 51,600), and in one hospitals in Quito (Enrique Garces), one in Cuenca



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 25
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
(Vicente Corral Moscoso), and one in Tena (Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra). The rest of participating provinces
and municipalities and hospitals would be selected according to the criteria specified in Annex 2b during
project implementation.
Proiect ComDonents
Component I: Decentralized Health Systems Subprojects (US$40.6 million, 62.5% of total project
costs).
Subprojects would be financed to expand coverage and improve quality and efficiency of health services in
selected provinces and municipalities, with special emphasis on targeting low-income and underserved
population groups, by reforming health care organization, financing and delivery.
Provincial and Municipal Health Boards or Councils and Autonomous Health Entities
To the above ends, this component would promote community and local government participation in health
care through the establishment or strengthening of Provincial or Municipal Health Boards or Councils and
autonomous health entities. These Boards or Councils or entities would be responsible for: (i) developing a
local health plan, including demonstration models for integrating public and private providers into health care
networks operating under performance agreements or contracts for the delivery of a program of essential
health services, to beneficiary population groups; (ii) categorizing and affiliating users to decentralized health
care networks (DHCNs), according to income level, as fully subsidized users, partly subsidized users, and non
subsidized users; (iii) developing new health care financing mechanisms (e.g., a local health fund) and user
charges systems to systematize subsidies for the poor and for certain services; and (iv) support the
modernization of management structures and practices in participating health network providers, including
support for the establishment of management information systems, quality assurance mechanisms, and human
resource development.
Proeram of Essential Health Services
It would include:
*  Women's reproductive health care interventions: pre-natal care, including nutrition surveillance of
pregnant women and detection of possible gestation and delivery complications; tetanus vaccination; child
delivery; post-partum care; breastfeeding promotion; birth spacing, control and treatment of sexually
transmitted diseases; and cervical and breast cancer screening.
*  Child health care interventions: infant care, growth monitoring, breastfeeding promotion, vaccination
against measles, diphtheria, pertussis, polio, tuberculosis, tetanus, oral rehydration therapy, prevention
and early treatment of gastrointestinal and acute respiratory diseases, oral health, as well as injury control
and prevention.
*  Health and nutrition information, education and communication: information, education and
communication about prenatal care, breastfeeding and infant feeding, dietary quality, hygiene, family
planning, sexually transmitted diseases, environmental health risks, injury prevention, and appropriate
management of childhood illness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 26
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
Piloting New Health Care Financine Arraneements
The subprojects would finance on a declining basis medical care demand to support the integration of public
and private providers through contracting instruments and procedures, as well as the use of new payment
mechanisms, for expanding the coverage of maternal and child health care services to the poor. These
contracts would specify the type and frequency of services, quality standards, place of delivery, prices, and
other contractual elements deemed necessary. The provincial and municipal or autonomous health entities
would identify and register eligible public and private providers in the selected areas with capacity to deliver
the services and beneficiary communities and families eligible to participate in the subprojects. It is expected
that in the medium term, on the basis of the experiences supported under the subprojects, new health care
financing arrangement (e.g., local health funds) would be developed for financing the delivery of services at the
provincial and municipal levels.
Beneficiaries
All local residents in the project area would be the beneficiaries of the DHCN. The subprojects would support
the provincial and municipal or autonomous health entities to systematize subsidies for the poor through the
pre-classification of beneficiaries according to their financial status in three categories: fully subsidized,
partially subsidized, and not subsidized. Criteria such as degree of unsatisfied basic needs would be used to
classify users. Once households have been classified, the DHBs would issue individual cards to all family
embers entitling them to using DHCN facilities and receive the program of essential health services. The
successful implementation of this demand organization approach would depend on the development of
management information systems, including data base to identify individual users, episodes and diagnoses,
classification of products and services to determine prices, and patient categorization to collect copayments
and user charges.
The Inteeration Model for Health Services Delivery
T-he package of essential health services would be delivered through an improved network of existing health
centers and maternity wards of local hospitals. On the basis of experience accumulated during the
implementation of the FASBASE Project in organizing health service areas or districts at the local level, the
project would assist in the transformation of current health care delivery systems operating at the local level
from isolated and uncoordinated providers into integrated delivery systems. The term integration refers both
to "vertical integration" within the MOH network, whereby the project would enhance coordination among
ambulatory and inpatient facilities by developing unified goals and incentives; and "virtual integration" or the
promotion of interinstitutional alliances between MOH, NGOs, IESS, autonomous health entities and private
providers operating through contracts, agreements, franchise arrangements, or formal affiliation. Underlying
this proposed approach is the value chain concept or in health services the continuum of medical care concept,
that refers to the sequence of related health service production processes (from the most basic inputs of labor,
capital, and materials to the next stage of creating the service, and, finally, to the distribution of the service to
the end-consumer or patient).
As demonstrated elsewhere, the two critical determinants of the success of integrated health systems are the
efficiency and effectiveness of the coordination of the medical care process and of infornation exchange.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 27
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
Assessments of individual situations in each of the participating provinces and municipalities would determine
which form of integration to be pursued under the subprojects for the provision of the program of essential
health care services.
Improvement of Health Services Network. In each DHCN covered by a subproject, the project would help
rehabilitate, upgrade and equip existing health facilities participating in the integrated delivery system, improve
staff nix, train existing and new staff, and provide related medical supplies.
Institutional Modernization and Strengthening. The DHCNs would be under the coordination of provincial
and municipal entities, which would need to develop and irnplement appropriate management systems for
performing policy-making, programming, resource allocation, supervision and control tasks. The management
capacity of the facilities in the DHCNs would also need to be modernized and strengthened. In particular,
building upon the efforts supported under the FASBASE Project, support would be provided for developing
locally-based and operated information systems with the capacity to identify service users, monitor utilization,
and provide cost information. The information system must connect all local providers participating in the
system, including physicians, health centers and hospitals, for the maximum continuity of care. Data
regarding members, utilization and costs would be collected and analyzed in order to facilitate continuous
improvement in service delivery and health outcomes of the population.
The process of institutional modernization and strengthening to be supported under the subprojects would
comprise the following activities:
*  Definition and development of management structures, decision-making levels, management service
agreements, and resource allocation mechanisms.
*  Development of cost recovery systems and contracting arrangements for the provision of services.
* Development of data ccllection systems for identifying and registering users of integrative delivery
systems.
  Strengthening of medical records.
*  Development of health programming, supervision and control systems, as well as epidemiological
surveillance, health statistics, and health services production and utilization systems.
*  Development of financial management systems (accounting, budgeting, costing, auditing and control).
*  Development of medical supply and maintenance systems.
*  Development of human resources management systems.
Training and continuing education of health personnel. Continuing education and training of health
personnel to raise technical and administrative capacity is an essential precondition for the development and
sustainability of the process of building integrated delivery systems at the local level. The subprojects would
support continuing education and training prograns related to matemal and child health care; health care
policy and management; health care financing; and medical care quality assurance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 28
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
Communication and Dissemination of Experiences. Development and phased consolidation of integrated
delivery systems at the provincial and municipal levels would require a broad base of social support together
with firm political commitment at the national and local levels. In order to assure these conditions, the
subprojects would provide assistance for information, education and communication activities aimed at
mobilizing broad support for policy and institutional reforms.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision. The project would also finance monitoring, evaluation and
supervision of subproject implementation.
Strategy for Subproject Implementation. Critical activities for the subprojects would be organized in stages
over an average 3-year period. Before progressing from one stage to the next, it would be necessary that the
goals identified for the first stage be fulfilled. If these goals are not achieved, remedial actions would be taken.
If, within a reasonable time period, the remedial action does not accomplish the goal, the subproject would be
canceled or reformulated. The stages are:
*  Qualification: establish provincial and municipal health boards or councils, defining role and
responsibilities, select technical teams and activate provincial and municipal boards or councils; identify
components of the integrated system (e.g., health centers, hospitals) and processes for collaboration;
conduct assessments and feasibility study to confirm readiness, in terms of capacity of existing
infrastructure (e.g., personnel, facilities, information systems); identify action plan and timeframes for
remediation.
*  Preparation and Development of Infrastructure: identify, categorize and affiliate current population in
catchment areas; develop estimates of per capita annual costs of program of essential health services;
develop first year budget and develop method for allocating funds to providers and facilities; develop new
health care financing mechanisms; establish performance measures by which the network would be
evaluated, including cost, patient satisfaction, quality; develop specifications and implementation plan for
information systems; develop specifications and implementation plan for cost accounting and financial
management system; develop prototype for medical records; test and adapt revised physician salary
guidelines; define performance expectations for all members of the integrated delivery system-physicians,
administrators and staff- based on clinical results, use of financial resources, and patient service
satisfaction.
*  Implementation Phase: initiate continuous education and training activities related to provider contracting
skills such as cost accounting and contract culture, information technology to capture population variables
such as demographics and utilization, and eligibility and enrollment methodology, as well as means testing
for copayments on sliding scale; the above policy and institutional reforms; study tours within Ecuador
and abroad to observe and absorb best practices; seek commitment and support from stakeholders to
support subproject.
* Evaluation and Expansion: establish contracting strategies with providers outside MOH network (e.g.,
NGOs); identify additional subprojects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 29
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
Component II: . Hospital Subprojects (US$18.3 million, 28.2% of total project costs)
DHCNs would need to refer some patients to provincial and national hospitals in order to obtain the required
medical care not available at the DHCNs. Presently, public hospitals are poorly managed and quality of care
needs major improvement. Recent decentralization and state modernization laws have opened opportunities for
reforming public institutions (see Annex 2c). Although a large number of public hospitals require substantial
improvements, the project would be able to set up semi-autonomous demonstration models only in a few
hospitals selected according to specified criteria, for eventual replication throughout the country. In the initial
phase of project implementation, the goal would be to strengthen hospital management in order to improve
technical efficiency and quality of care. To this end, the project would assist selected hospitals in modernizing
their organization and governance structure, management practices, and improving health care quality by: (i)
implementing semi-autonomous managerial arrangements including user participation; (ii) strengthening
planning and decision making; (iii) developing human resources through selective training and continuing
education, performance incentives, and career development; (iv) implementing financial administration systems
and management information systems; (v) revamping cost recovery policies and systems and developing new
resource allocation mechanisms for hospital care; and (vi) financing civil works, equipment, maintenance, and
supplies for refurbishing and upgrading existing facilities.
Criteria for Selecting Hospitals.  Modernizing institutions with strongly entrenched traditions and
weaknesses requires experimentation and careful selection of candidates for change. The PCU would
evaluate 8 hospitals that would serve as referral centers to the DHCNs using the Hospital Management
Assessment Instrument developed with support from the Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health
Team. This evaluation would assess seven key areas: (i) senior management capabilities; (ii) strategic
planning; (iii) information systems; (iv) accounting and financial management; (v) human resources and labor
relations; (vi) facilities and equipment; and (vii) relationships with the community and other providers. In
addition to the survey, the following criteria would be used for selecting demonstration hospitals for
modernization and autonomous management:
(i) MOH resolution with deconcentration of authority provision should have been issued (i.e., transfer of
powers from the MOH to hospital directors on matters concerning contracting of goods and services; payments
for goods and services; appointment and discharge of employees; and planning and monitoring of investments);
(ii) hospitals should be classified as provincial or national hospitals;
(iii) hospital director and staff must be willing to accept changes in organization, staffing patterns, financial
management, and quality improvements;
(iv) hospital should have strong influence in its region and credibility to serve as a model of tested and adopted
changes in autonomous hospital management, service delivery, quality of care and allocative efficiency;
(v) hospital director should have organized a task force for discussing and seeking agreement in proposed
changes;
(vi) hospital director should have signed an agreement with MOH, when required, with endorsement of
respective provincial/municipal authorities), to undertake modernization changes (with specific monitoring and
impact evaluation indicators) and have access to project financing; and,



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 30
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
(vii) willingness to be part of a "learning network" organized with other hospitals included in similar change
processes.
Once the hospitals have been selected, the directors would appoint a Management Committee which may
include the same members of the task force that discussed change proposals. With project assistance, the
Management Committee would carry out workshops to: (i) inform all hospital staff about the proposed reform
objectives and strategies; and (ii) analyze the results of the Hospital Management Assessment results. The
Committee then would define the vision, mission, corporate values and goals for the hospital, and develop a
reform plan including autonomous decentralized management, improvements in allocative and technical
efficiency, quality assurance strategy, and agreed upon goals for all hospital departments.
Ori[anizational Change Plan
Hospital Management and Oualitv Improvement
There is agreement among key stakeholders that important hospital decisions should be made closer to the
population served to improve flexibility and responsiveness to the specific needs of the diverse geographical
areas and population groups in Ecuador. There also is agreement that the medium-term goal is to establish a
system in which decision making responsibilities are shared by the MOH, provincial and municipal entities,
hospital governing boards and hospital leaders. With project support a dialogue would be initiated, and
consensus developed among key stakeholders, regarding the most appropriate decision-making framework for
Ecuador. To this end, the hospital subprojects would support:
*  Development of a decision-making framework to support greater autonomy of selected public hospitals by
redefining the relationship between MOH, Provincial and Municipal Health Boards or Councils,
autonomous health entities and individual hospitals with respect to key hospital governance decisions (e.g.,
development of operational and capital budgets, strategic planning, human resources management,
procurement and contracting), as well as to integrate hospitals in the local DHCNs.
* Implementation of one or more governance models that would allow regional authorities and local
communities to share greater responsibility for the governance and management of demonstration
hospitals. More specifically, the foundation for decentralized authority and autonomy of hospitals would
be established. Governing or advisory boards would be formed in each of the demonstration hospitals.
Members of these Boards could include representatives from key stakeholders (e.g., physicians,
community and business representatives, unions and local health authorities).
*  Design and implementation of improved management systems, including Total Quality Management
(TCM) initiatives, that would support the strengthening of cost accounting, performance improvement and
measurement, and reporting systems in the pilot hospitals. Key management systems that would be
improved at the hospital level include: human resources, materials management, performance measurement
and reporting, cost accounting, budgeting, strategic planning, leadership, information systems, and quality
management. The first priority would be to define the minimum set of procedures that hospitals at the
different levels are expected to perform. For each procedure, standards would be developed which specify
the equipment and supplies required and define personnel competencies. The standards would address
both the care of the patient and the efficient management of the hospital in the context of the roles and
responsibilities that hospital provide in the overall health system. To assess and improve quality of care in
the participating hospitals the subprojects would support training on quality assessments and quality



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 31
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
improvement (e.g., identification of clinical problems, plans for data collection, analysis and
implementation of a quality improvement effort), as well as institutional structures recommended to
support quality activities (e.g.,Quality Improvement Committees).
* Design and establishment of hospital management educational programs that would train individuals for
positions as senior hospitals and health system leaders, managers of clinical and administrative
departments, and technical support staff.
* Strengthening of the educational program infrastructure in hospital and health system management.
Hospital Accountins and Reporting Svstem
Based on an assessment of current circumstances, the subprojects would support the development of an
appropriate accounting methodology to include formal accounting system (cost and revenue center structures,
natural expense categories, periodic financial reporting requirements, etc,), departmental performance
reporting systems (types of reports, distribution timetables, responsibility accounting hierarchies, operating
and capital budgeting methodologies, etc.), and a common cost accounting methodology for tracking individual
hospital performance (revenues, expenses, and service statistics such as patient days, visits, length of stay,
etc.).
Alternative Methods of Financin2 Hospitals
New Resource Allocation Mechanisms. The current budgeting system in the MOH hospitals does not
promote allocative or technical efficiency. Budgets are based on historical spending patterns and are not based
upon the output of the hospital. Changing the method of paying hospitals is one possible way to improve both
the technical and allocative efficiency of hospitals. To this end, the subprojects would support: (i) the
development of a payment methodology; (ii) implementation of "shadow prices" to acquaint hospitals with
reimbursement based upon output; and (iii) gradual implementation of new hospital financing methodology.
For example, initially the payment rate would be set equal to total hospital budget divided by total number of
discharges. All participating hospitals would receive the same payment rate. The uniform payment rate would
be used until it can be refined to include additional factors such as case mix, cost of living, and perhaps
hospital specific factors. The purpose of this initial payment rate is to get hospitals accustomed to working
under a per administration payment system. It would not be used to actually pay hospitals, but instead, it
would be used to simulate what a hospital would receive under a per discharge basis. It would also allow time
to refine the payment.
User Charges. Sixty-three percent of health care expenditures in Ecuador are from private sources. Cost
recovery in public hospitals is an important policy option which could benefit both the health system itself and
the public which uses it. With demonstrated improvements in quality, Ecuador's MOH could eventually be
able to achieve 10-15 percent cost recovery of recurrent costs. However, policy makers in Ecuador are
concerned about the equity implication of fees, as well as the administrative costs associated with accounting
and exemption systems. Prior to introducing new cost recovery policies or setting the level of fees in the
demonstration hospitals, the subproject would provide technical assistance to collect necessary information
(e.g., baseline surveys, determination of the feasibility of user fees, etc.) and, in consultation with Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit, develop a revised system to charge and collect fees, including legal safeguards that
would allow hospitals to retain the revenues generated by user charges.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 32
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
Investment Plan
The subprojects would finance priority investments for improving facilities and hospital equipment in
demonstration hospitals, provided they meet at least three of the following five requirements: (i) risk reduction
for patients and staff, (ii) improved process in time or patient stay; (iii) reduced intervention costs; (iv)
significant improvements in quality of care; and (v) clear economy of scale. No new construction would be
financed; investments would be for rehabilitating or remodeling
Monitoring and ImDact Evaluation
The subprojects would also support monitoring and evaluation activities to provide coordinated feedback to the
developers, implementors, and policy decision makers.
Component III: Policy Development, Human Resources Management, and Consensus Building (US$2.2,
3.4% of total project costs)
The project would support technical assistance to clarify the scope, mission and responsibilities for the MOH
and the National Health Council; strengthen the capacity and improve the quality of decision-making, resource
allocation, management and evaluation within the MOH and the advisory and consensus building role of the
National Health Council to coordinate health policies among the various sectoral institutions; develop policies
for reforming supply and distribution of physicians and nurses, implementation of performance management of
human resources, including quality assurance strategies, accreditation, and management training, to achieve
the proposed reforms and improvements in quality and coverage of health service delivery; and develop laws
and respective regulations to set forth the regulatory and monitoring role of the MOH and the advisory
functions of the National Health Council, to modify human resource policies of the current Civil service Law
and Labor Code under which the health system employees are ruled, and to update health provisions of the
existing Health Code. The project would also support information, education and communication activities to
achieve consensus on health reform.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 33
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 2b
Subproject Cycle and Eligibility Criteria
Particinating Aeencies and Procedures
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which reports to the Minister of Health (MOH), would be responsible
for project coordination, including resource allocation for provincial and municipal subprojects, and hospital
subprojects. In performing this function, the PCU would work in close coordination with MOH units.
Subprojects would be formulated by local health entities and participating hospital units, using: (a) the
eligibility criteria agreed with the World Bank; (b) the methodology designed for subproject preparation; and
(c) the guidelines for subproject presentation, implementation and evaluation.
The subproject cycle and eligibility criteria, as well as the guides for preparing provincial and municipal
subprojects and hospital subprojects, would be included in an Operations Manual, satisfactory to the World
Bank. They are summarized below.
Subnroiect Cycle
Promotion. The PCU, along with MOH, would invite provincial, municipal and autonomous health entities to
identify subprojects for financing under the project. Representatives from the PCU would visit provinces and
municipalities to transmit and explain subproject eligibility criteria. Technical assistance would be provided to
provinces and municipalities, as well as hospital units, for subproject preparation.
Preparation. Provincial and municipal entities, and hospital units, would prepare subproject proposals
following guidelines in the project's Operations Manual. Subproject documents would include a diagnosis of
issues to be addressed, proposed solutions, activities to be carried out, estimated cost, and arrangements to
ensure sustainability. Subproject preparation activities would be financed by the project; technical assistance
would be provided by the PCU.
Evaluation. The PCU would analyze proposals using project's eligibility criteria.
Approval. The PCU would: (i) approve subprojects; (ii) suggest changes; or (iii) reject them if they do not
conform to the eligibility criteria. Approved subprojects would be sent to the World Bank for its no objection.
Signing of Agreements. For the preparation and implementation of decentralized health care and hospital
subprojets, Participatory (Framework) Agreements between (i) MOH and provincial or municipal or
autonomous health entities willing to participate in the project, and (ii) MOH and hospitals authorities, and
Executing Agreements for specific investments between MOH and participating provincial or municipal or
autonomous health entities would be signed. Provincial or municipal or autonomous health entities would
contract with health providers (e.g., hospitals, ambulatory facilities) the services referred to in the Executing
Agreements.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 34
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
Implementation. For each subproject, the procurement of goods and services would follow the project's
Operations Manual.
Monitoring and Supervision. Supervision of the implementation of investment subprojects in the provincial
and municipal integrated health service networks would be carried out by the PCU and the local entities, based
on two different dimensions: (i) the implementation of the rehabilitation and equipping of facilities should be
supervised and monitored in order to ensure compliance with implementation schedules and the quality of
materials (independent consultants could be hired to carry out this task); and (ii) the transformation of the
service delivery model through the establislment of decentralized, autonomous and pluralistic integrated health
networks, including monitoring results indicators which would enable measurement of the improvement and
impact of services on the subproject's target population, and project performance indicators (Annex 1).
Elieibility Criteria
Project Size. Subprojects would be provincial or municipal level in scale, i.e., at a minimum they would
cover a network of health care facilities that provide services to the target population in the province or
municipality. Hospital subprojects would cover only individual facilities.
Targeting. Subprojects should cover regions in which the poor represent at least 30 percent of the population.
Organization. A subproject should involve existing organizations, including provincial, municipal, and non-
governmental organizations, as well as existing facilities. The local and the hospital units should remain in
place for the duration of the subprojects, and would be responsible for all liaison with the MOH/PCU at the
national level. This involves intersectoral and interjurisdictional coordination of the project relative to carrying
out its objectives and establishing and conforming to project norms.
Sustainability. The provincial or municipal authorities and entities should have the political commitment to
undertake policy and institutional reforms as well as possess the financial and administrative capability to
carry out the subproject, as demonstrated in the analysis undertaken as part of subproject preparation. The
capacity of a province or a municipality to implement a subproject would be based on existing capacity in the
following areas: (a) types of existing programs similar to the proposed subproject; (b) capacity of local
organizations to manage existing programs in the subproject area (quality, number, and experience of
management staff of local institutions); and (c) willingness and ability to cofinance subprojects.
Exit Criteria. In case of no compliance by any province or municipality or autonomous health entity and
hospital of any of its obligations the MOH's PCU may suspend or cancel the financing of any of the activities
originally assigned to such province or municipality or autonomous health entity and hospital, and reallocate
the respective resources to other provinces or municipalities or autonomous health entity and hospital as
provided in the project's Operations Manual.
Program of Essential Health Services. Agreement to implement proposed program of essential health
services, giving priority to maternal and child health care setvices.
Accounting and Audits. Establishment of separate subproject accounts, accounting, and audit.
Counterpart Funds. Agreement to assign the required resources to the project, including advance annual
funding allocations and adequate cash releases to cover incremental recurrent expenditures. Redeployment of



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 35
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
staff or, when required, recruitment of incremental staff.
Performance Monitoring. Perfonrance monitoring indicators (Annex 1) would be used to monitor progress
in subproject implementation and impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 36
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 2c
Leeal Framework for Decentralization
1.    Centralized Framework
As to health matters, the current Ecuadorian Constitution' (EC) has only general provisions on the
right of Ecuadorians to social security and, as part of such right, the health of the rural and urban
population is to be protected (EC, art. 42.2). As part of the EC environmental provisions, the State's
obligation to protect the right of the population to live in a healthy and ecologically balanced
environment is also contemplated (EC, art. 44). The EC is silent on the definition of health and a
specific institutional framework to ensure the population's health.
The definition of health and its coverage, as well as the centralized institutional framework, is found in
the 1971 Ecuadorian Health Code2 (HC). The HC defines health as a state of complete physical,
social and mental welfare, and deems such concept to be over and above the absence of sickness (HC,
art. 1). The Ministry of Health (MOH) is the only designated institution with jurisdiction over health
(HC, art. 5), with the exception of water supply in respect of which such jurisdiction could be shared
with the Municipalities (HC, art. 14). MOH is to promote individual and collective health (HC, art.
96). Aiming to protect the health of the population, the HC sets forth general regulations for
environmental control, including water, sanitation, waste, toxic substances, and urbanization and
industrial development.
The centralized functions of MOH cover the regulation, control and delivery of services to the
population in the prevention and cure of diseases. Consistent with the institutional framework set
forth in the HC, the Municipalities Law3 (ML) gives powers to the Municipalities, within their
jurisdictions, for regulating and delivering water for human consumption, and for sanitation (ML, art.
163 (c) (d) (e) and, in coordination with the MOH, for regulating hygiene and other related health
matters including the hygienic and healthy operation of businesses dealing with food, and public
buildings in general (ML, art. 164).
2.    Evolving Decentralization Framework
During the nineties two complementary laws were enacted which provide an enabling framework for
decentralization and implementation of the proposed project:
the 1993 Law of the Modernization of the State, Privatization, and Delivery of Public
Services by the Private Sector (M&PL)4 and its Regulations' (M&PL Regulations); and
Constitution of Ecuador, Third codification published in Official Gazette 969 on June 18, 1996 and modified
by Law 130 published in the Official Gazette on July 30, 1996.
2      Law No. 188 published in the Official Gazette No. 158 on February 2, 1971.
3      Law of the Municipal Regime - codified in the Official Gazette No. 331 (Supplement) on October 15, 1991.
4      Law of the Modernization of the State, Privatization, and Delivery of Public Services by the Private Sector,
Law No. 50 published in the C)licial Gazette No. 349 on December 31, 1993.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 37
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
*      the 1997 Decentralization and Social Participation Law (DL)2.
The following regimes are authorized, under the M&PL and with the general coordination and
supervision of CONAM3, for the transfer by the Central Government of its powers and functions:
*      decentralization which consists of the delegation of political, economic, administrative and
financial management powers and duties from the Central Government to sectional
governments (provincial or municipal). The M&PL Regulations define decentralization as a
transfer of functions to a functionally or geographically decentralized entity, and such
decentralization includes also the power to create new entities to discharge functions which
were originally centrally assigned. (M&PL Regulations, art. 31). Executive decrees would
be required for such decentralization (M&PL Regulations, art. 30);
*      deconcentration which consists of the delegation of administrative and financial functions
from the Central Government to its own dependencies (M&PL, art. 34). In this framework,
the Ministries are required to delegate, within economic or geographic regions, and through
ministerial resolutions, its powers and responsibilities with the only specific requirement that:
(a) the geographic scope (boundaries) where the delegate will act be specifically mentioned in
the Resolution (M&PL, art. 35); and (b) the prior approval by the Ministry of Finance of the
budgetary transfers related thereto be granted (M&PL Regulations, art. 34)4.
Social participation requirements were later introduced by the DL and therefore, all decentralization
efforts should be ruled, in addition to the principles of autonomy and efficiency, by a principle of
coparticipation in public management (DL, art. 5). The public participation, as set forth in the DL,
should aim to achieve social and gender equity, and the respect and recognition of the values of the
indigenous, Afro-Ecuadorian and other ethnic groups (DC, art. 6). As a step forward in the
decentralization framework, the DL sets forth that the Executive Power will transfer, on a permanent
basis, to the Municipalities, powers, functions and resources to, inter alia: (a) plan, coordinate, carry
out and monitor health, nutrition and food safety programs with the guaranteed active participation of
the community, and formal and traditional health organizations; and (b) construct, equip and maintain
the infrastructure for the delivery of primary care services (DL, art. 9 (a) (b)). The transfer of such
functions would require an agreement between the MOH, the concerned Municipality, and the
Ministry of Finance (DL, art. 12). None have been implemented yet, as the regulations to the DL have
not been issued.
The components for the proposed project will be implementing some of the
centralization/deconcentration/public participation schemes described above and piloting others as
follows:
Regulations to the Law of the Modernization of the State, Privatization, and Delivery of Public Services by
the Private Sector, Executive Decree No. 2328, published in the Official Gazette No. 581 (Supplement) on December
2, 1994.
2      Decentralization and Social Participation Special Law, Law No. 27 published in the Official Gazette on
October 8, 1997.
3      A council established pursuant to art. 8 of the M&PL.
4      The M&PL also contemplates privatization and concessioning of public services (such as water supply and
sanitation) but such forms are not described here as none are financed by the proposed project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 38
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
1.    In the Decentralized Health Systems component the decentralization of functions to the Provincial or
Municipal Governments for implementation of integrated health care programs will take place with a
required forum for public participation which most likely will be through Provincial or Municipal
Health Boards or Councils (Junta Provincial o Cantonal de Salud or Consejo Provincial o Cantonal
de Salud) already established or to be established. Autonomous health entities (e.g., Junta de
Beneficencia de Guayaquil) may also participate under the component. Two Municipal health boards
have been established, with the support of the proposed project preparation advance, following two
different legal forms as follows:
*      the Tena Health Board was established by a Municipal resolution (ordenanza municipal) as a
municipal enterprise (but is called a Junta) and as such was granted juridical personality
autonomous from the Municipal Government pursuant to the provisions of Articles 194 and
subsequent of the ML. The Municipal resolution establishing the Board states that:
(a)   its functions are to: (i) improve the quality of life of the Tena population as it relates,
in particular, to health and sanitation; (ii) guarantee access to health services; (iii) set health
quality policies and standards (consistent with national legislation); and (iv) monitor the
activities and resources assigned for health in the Municipality for an improved rational and
effective use thereof,
(b)   it will be governed by a Council, an Assembly, a Committee and a Technical Unit.
The Council is that of the Municipality of Tena and has selected budgetary functions. The
Assembly is composed by all the inhabitants of the Municipality, the provincial level health
directors of the Ministry of Health, the Municipality and representatives of the Municipal
health area, the Ministry of Health's hospital, and any other organization that wishes to attend
and is to imeet twice a year to approve Municipal health and sanitation policies and
investments. The Committee and Technical Unit have executive powers.
3      The Cuenca Health Board was established by a Municipal resolution as a Municipal Council
(a Consejo) and has been operating as such without juridical personality and financial
autonomy. The Municipal resolution establishing the Cuenca Health Board sets forth that:
(a)   it has within the Municipality's geographic jurisdiction, policy making, planning and
coordination functions in the delivery of health services as well as a function of promotion of
equity, efficiency and quality in such delivery;
(b)   it will be governed by an Assembly, a Board, and an Executive Directorate. The
Assembly is presided by the Mayor of Cuenca, composed of representations of the state
institutions, and non-governmental and private institutions providing health services or related
activities, and all inhabitants of the Municipality, as users. It approves the investment plans
and sets the policies for health applicable to the area of jurisdiction. The Board is composed
of a representative each of the Municipality of Cuenca, the Health and Education Ministries
(through its Directorates), the local universities, the Social Security Institute, urban and rural
parroquias (a subdivision within a Municipality), professional trade unions, non-
governmental organizations, private provides of health services and the Armed Forces. The
Board has, among other duties, to design, review, and approve an integrated health plan for
the Municipality of Cuenca.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 39
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
Lacking a specific law and considering the peculiar powers and composition of the health boards there
appears to be no legal form of establishing such boards other than with Provincial or Municipal or
Ministerial Resolutions which would establish them as public entities with juridical personality
separate from, and not linked (adscripta) to, the respective Ministry, or Provincial or Municipal
Government or as corporations. Private entities could however, be formed under the Civil Code (CD)
and granted juridical personality by the President (CD, arts. 580 and 583). Some health board
members seem reluctant to be organized as private corporations and also to be "linked" to a
Municipality due to their broad powers and interinstitutional nature.
2.    In the Hospital Modernization component the deconcentration of management and administrative
functions from the MOH to the directors of its hospitals leading to a gradual autonomy of such
hospitals will be done through Ministerial resolutions to be issued as the respective hospital qualifies
to participate in the proposed project.
The most important powers to be transferred are:
*     To carry out the contracting of goods and services as authorized by the domestic procurement
law.
*     To approve the expenditures made under specific contracts for payments to be made out of the
approved budget for that purpose.
*     To appoint and discharge its employees (doctors, nurses and others).
*     To plan and monitor implementation of investments (for improvements) of the respective
hospital.
3.    Constitutional Reform and Leal Technical Assistance Needs
A Constitutional Assembly approved in April 1998 amendments to the Constitution which, in regards
to the health sector, contains draft provisions which would further enable the modernization and
decentralization of the health sector contemplated by the proposed project as follows:
1.    The State would guarantee the promotion and protection of health through food safety, water
supply and basic sanitation and the permanent and uninterrupted access to health services, in
accordance with principles of equity, universality, solidarity, quality and efficiency.
2.    The public services will be provided only to those unable to pay for such services and no one
would be denied emergency services.
3.    The State would be responsible for policy regulation and would authorize and monitor the
delivery of health services. The development of traditional medicine will be recognized, respected and
promoted. A law will regulate the practice of medicine, including alternative and traditional methods.
4.    The State will organize the National Health System which will be formed by public,
autonomous, private and community based entities and such systems will operate in a deconcentrated,
decentralized and participatory manner.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 40
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
The legal technical assistance needs have been identified in the understanding that the above described
constitutional amendments will be enacted and published, and as a means to implement the sectoral
described above. It would include the development of the following laws and respective regulations:
*     Health System Law which would set forth the regulatory and monitoring function of the
Ministry of Health, the advisory functions of a National Health Council', the specific
functions of public and private health service providers and the accreditation requirements
thereof, the ]human resource principles pertinent to the sector, and the funding mechanisms for
health.
*     Health Sector Human Resources Law which would elaborate on the human resource
principles that might be included in the Health System Law referred above and would modify
as needed the human resource policies of the current Civil Service Law and Labor Code under
which the health sector employees are ruled.
*     A new Health Code which would update the health provisions of the 1971 existing code.
There is one established by Decree No. 3658 published in the Official Gazette on January 27, 1988, which is
not operational.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 41
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 3
Estimated Projects Costs
(US$ million)
MITI                                   m =  = =
Decentralized Health             40.6            26.8             3.8             10.0
Systems Subprojects
Hospital Modernization           18.3             12.8            3.5             2.0
Subprojects
Policy Development, Human         2.2             1.8             0.4
Resources Management, and
Consensus Building
Project Management                3.9             3.6             0.3
Financing Percentages                           70.0%             12%             18%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 42
Country: Ecuador                                                     Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 4
Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis
This annex presents the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the MODERSA Project, based upon
the project's costs and the measurable economic benefits flowing from the successful implementation of the
proposed project. The costs considered in the analysis include the expenditures of the proposed World Bank
loan and the cost of increasing the production and quality of maternal and child health care services for the
project's population of approximately 2 million people. The following tables summarize the results of the
analysis for each of the two scenarios.
Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
Total Potential        Net Present Value:
Type of Benefits          Benefits: Life of Project 10 year stream of benefits
5 years (USS million        (USSmillion)
Reduce hospital referrals                     0,2                      0,5
Strengthen ambulatory surgery program         0,4                      0,9
Lower unnecessary emergency room use          0,8                      2,1
Lower absenteeism from reduced                0.3                      0.7
hospitalization
Reduce infant mortality                       24,1                     87,4
Reduce maternal mortality                     1,0                      3,6
Total All Components                  26,8                     95.3
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
......... ................ e  e
................              ..NPV               I RR
Base Case                                  43.4               36.%
2-year delay                                11.6               22
3-year delay                                3.2                15
20% reduction in benefits                  24.3                36
40% reduction in benefits                   5.3                18
20% reduction in benefits and 2-year delay  0.075              12
Discount Rate: A discount rate of 12 percent was used for the analysis. Additional simulations
were undertaken with a discount rate of 10 percent.
Using a ten-year project horizon and a 12 percent discount rate, the NPV of the total benefits (direct and
indirect) together account for US$43.4 million in 1997 constant dollars. The corresponding IERR is 36
percent. The previous table also shows the effect of delays and lower tha expected benefits on the NPV and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 43
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
ERR. Overall, the project would remain justifiable even assuming a 3 year delay in project benefits or a 40
percent reduction in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters which dictate that annual rate of
return earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate of the project, to maintain an efficient
allocation of World Bank resources. The high IERR also underscores the cost-effective nature of the
program.
Assumptions
The following parameters are considered relevant in estimating the economic benefits of the proposed
MODERSA Project: the length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health of the population, the
size of the target population, the existing patterns of morbidity and mortality, the number of years of
productive life added as a result of the percentage decrease in mortality, and the existing cost structure in the
health sector. Given the medium-to-long-term effect of the changes, the estimates presented in terms of
reduced morbidity, which assume a project horizon of only 10 years, are very conservative.'
The analysis of the MODERSA Project considers the following benefits: (i) direct economic benefits of a
reduction in hospital discharges resulting from reductions in morbidity; (ii) direct benefits from reduced
absenteeism due to reductions in unnecessary hospitalization; (iii) reductions in emergency room visits and
total bed days for potentially ambulatory interventions; and (iv) indirect benefits resulting from reductions in
infant and maternal mortality and indirect benefits resulting from the increase in productive life years from
improved access to and quality of infant and maternal health care services.
In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the investment costs of
the World Bank project; and (ii) the investment and recurrent costs to be incurred as a result of extended
coverage of a program of essential health services through the existing network of public and private
providers. While the cost of providing said program are relatively high for Ecuador (US$65 million), the
priority for health sector investment and the generation of significant savings would offset the total investment
costs. The cost of providing the program includes the fixed and variable costs necessary to increase coverage
of basic services, such as immunizations and prenatal care.
In total, it is estimated that the project will
potentially save nearly 4,600 lives as a result of
a 30% reduction in infant (4,317 deaths) and                                        Average
50%  reduction in maternal mortality (282                                       Reduction every
deaths). The reduction in mortality is taken as  Mortalit5 years, 1960-
the base line assumption to calculate the          Y                                    2 )
indirect benefits of the project. The estimates  Maternal Mortality                   25.2
of reduced mortality are based on conservative
estimates that reflect historical trends in Ecuador, international literature on cost-effectiveness, and
Ecuadorian expert's opinion2. The estimated reductions in mortality are supported by the historical trend of
reduced infant and maternal mortality, in 5 year intervals. The previous table displays the historical trends,
without the implementation of targeted programs to reduce infant and maternal mortality. The average 5
year reductions of 25 percent and 36 percent for infant and maternal mortality, respectively, yield
' The additional costs of increasing the maternal and child health care services are reflected in the investment costs.
2"Disease priorities in developing countries", Jamison, et al. 1993. Oxford Press



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 44
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
average reductions similar to the baseline reductions used in the present analysis, thus highlighting the
conservative nature of the estimates.
The discounted life years saved attributable to these reductions are then converted to monetary terms by using
estimates of the discounted life time earnings lost from each death, as reflected by the use of average wage
levels, by age, and the number of years of life lost for each death.
Cost-Effectiveness
The total discounted life years potentially saved through the project interventions are based on rough estimates
of the potential reduction in infant and maternal mortality, and the discounted number of life years lost per
death. While there are no detailed cost-effectiveness studies available for Ecuador, it is estimated that the
project would reduce the burden of disease by approximately 85,000 discounted life years. The average cost
per discounted life year for the selected project interventions is in a range acceptable under the standards
established in the 1993 World Bank's World Development Report. The overall average cost per discounted
life year saved is US$711. While this is slightly higher than the average range for maternal and child health
care projects, the changes in the financing and organization of the health services network increase the
complexity of those interventions to be addressed by the project and, thus, raise the average cost per
discounted life year saved.
Fiscal Impact
Estimates of the sustainability of the project are based on an analysis of the recurrent costs of the project
generated by annual maintenance costs and the extension of the integrated health care model to the uncovered
population in the project's regions. Upon project completion, the annual recurrent costs will account for US$8
million per year, including the additional operating costs generated by the investment, maintenance costs of 5
percent per year, and an annual depreciation of 10 percent per year for equipment.
The assumptions include: real annual health care spending increases of 4 percent per year, projected real GDP
growth of 5 percent over the next 10 years, and a slight decline in public spending from 20 percent to 17
percent of GDP.
Under a favorable macroeconomic scenario and base scenario assumptions for health sector spending,
estimated recurrent expenditures are projected to reach a maximum of 7.9 percent of total MOH spending. At
the same time, the burden on central government spending would remain in the range of 0.09 percent to a high
of 0.5 percent.  The project would gradually increase the share of GDP allocated to the health sector, from
around 1 percent to just over 1.1 percent by year 3, and then leveling-off to settle again at 1.02 percent at the
end of the project's horizon. As a share of GDP, the project would increase spending by 0.05 percent of GDP.
The following table summarizes these results for the favorable macroeconomic and base health sector
scenario. Alternative scenarios are contained in the full report (see project files).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 45
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
Summary of Fiscal Impact and Project Sustainability
Year 0 (97) Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 10
Base scenario
Spending MOH as % GDP               1,09%    1,10%    1,10%   1,09%    1,08%   1,07%   1,02%
Spending MOH / Govt. spending      5,44%    6,47%    7,09%   6,80%    6,54%   6,28%   5,99%
Cost Project GOE / Spending MOH             0,36%    0,84%   1,71%    2,28%   1,80%   2,89%
Cost Project GOE / Govt. Spending           0,02%    0,06%   0,12%    0,15%   0,11%   0,17%
Cost Project GOE t GDP                      0,00%    0,01%   0,02%    0,02%   0,02%   0,03%
Total Cost Project / Spending MOH           1,44%    2,96%   6,17%    7,85%   6,28%   2,89%
Total Cost Project / Govt Spending          0,09%    0,21%   0,42%    0,51%   0,39%   0,17%
Total Cost Project / GDP                    0,02%    0,03%   0,07%    0,08%   0,07%   0,03%
An important element of the analysis of the project's sustainability is associated with the capacity of the
Government to absorb the incremental cost generated by the investment and the implementation of the
alternative health care management models. The following table displays the estimated incremental cost of the
project for years 6 to 10 of the time horizon, along with the estimated sources of financing for the incremental
costs. As shown in the table, the generation of additional resources through cost-recovery, increased
municipal contributions and direct savings from improved hospital efficiency, would yield additional resources
of approximately US$4.8 million per year'. This would imply a financing gap of roughly US$4.3 million per
year, to be assumed by the MOH. In contrast with the worst case scenario shown in the previous table-
where the MOH assumes 100 percent of incremental costs-the financing gap would account for roughly 1.6
percent of the projected MOH budget.
Financing Incremental Project Costs
Year7      Year8        Year9        Year 1
Total Project Cost (US$)        8.0         8.0         8.0           8.0
- Additional fi............... ... . . . . ....c.i.ng   <     ..........
Cost-recovery                   2.6        2.6          2.6           2.6
Municipal contributions         1.1         1.1         1.1           1.1
Improvements in hospital        1.1         1.1         1.1           1.1
efficiency
Financing Gap                   4.3        4.3          4.3           4.3
(incremental cost-additional
financing)
'Anecdotal evidence from pilot project to improve hospital efficiency have produced annual savings ranging from 14
to 20 percent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 46
Country: Ecuador                                                     Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 5
Ecuador Health Services Modernization Project
Financial Summary
(US$)
,. ,. .::B, ...  '.B   .   S.  Iinpl'emen. m .DB a '                B 
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   Total
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs    3.2    3.6    6.4    9.9    7.0    4.1    34.2
Recurrent Costs     0.3    3.1    4.8    10.0    7.6    5.0    30.7
Total             3.5    6.7    11.1   19.9   14.6   9.1    65.0
Financing Sources (%
of total proiect costs)
IBRD                2.7    4.8    7.9    13.6    9.9    6.0    45.0
Co-financiers
Government
Central          0.6    0.7    1.3    2.4    1.8    1.2    8.0
Local             0.1    1.2    1.9    3.9    2.9    1.9    11.9
User
Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Others
Others



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 47
Country: Ecuador                                                 Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 6
Ecuador Health Services Modernization Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Table Al)
Consultant Selection Arrangements (Table A2)
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement Schedule (Table D)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 48
Country: Ecuador                                                      Health Services Modernization Project
TABLE Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                    3.6           3.4 \a             7.0
(2.2)         (2.0)             (4.2)
2. Goods
Equipment                  4.0                         7.7 \b            11.7
(2.8)                        (5.4)            (8.2)
Pharmaceuticals and        4.0                         8.5 \b            12.5
Medical Supplies          (2.7)                        (5.0)            (7.7)
3. Services/c
Systems Development                                     5.0              5.0
(5.0)            (5.0)
Consultant Services                                     2.0              2.0
(2.0)            (2.0)
Training                                                5.3              5.3
(4.5)            (4.5)
Medical Care                                           13.0              13.0
(7.8)            (7.8)
Information,                                            1.0              1.0
Education and                                          (0.6)            (0.6)
Communication (lEC)
4. Operational                                             5.3              5.3
Costs                                                  (3.2)            (3.2)
S. PPF                                                     2.2              2.2
c                      X               ~~~~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~(1.8)  (1.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; NBF = Not Bank-financed; NCB = National Competitive Bidding
a.Three written quotations.
b.National (except pharmaceuticals)/International Shopping.
c. Consultants would be selected according to the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 49
Country: Ecuador                                                                   Health Services Modernization Project
TABLE A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
,, ,,~~~~~~. .9.--.--..     ...       .   ....... S     X
C. ..       t ..                             ec       m                        T a --              i
,.;e.ndltu..............e . . . .                                                         ...........
Systems
Development/Technical
Assistance
A. Firms                           5.1             0.6                                      5.7
B. Individuals                                                     1.3                      1.3
Subtotal                                                                  7.0
Training
A. Firms                            1.5                            1.9                      3.4
B. Individuals                                                     1.9                      1.9
Subtotal                                                                   5.3
.                                                  .. ..  . .   .   .. ..  .   ................ . .. .. : - n: :: : .: :: . '.!, . >^;; . . ...... .... ..... .  i.. ..... .....
..ta.    ! -;          -      ::6.6  0.6        1              ' .
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   = Quality-Based Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Service Delivery, etc.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 50
Country: Ecuador                                                    Health Services Modernization Project
TABLE B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$1,000 equivalent)
Works                            < 50       Three quotations   SOE
50 - 500     NCB              First two each year
Goods
Equipment and Supplies        >50        Local Shopping    SOE
< 50       Intl. Shopping   First two each year
>100       ICB               All
Pharmaceutical and           < 100       Intl. Shopping   First two each year
Medical Supplies             > 100       ICB               All
Services
Consulting Services:
Firms                        > 100       QCBS/QBS          All
< 100                        Review of TORs only
Individual                   > 50        Individuals      All
< 50                        Review of TORs only
Administrative
Staff (consultants)          > 50        Individuals      All
< 50                        Review of TORs only
Operational Costs                           Administrative    Annual review of a plan
procedures
ICB =   Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB=  National Competitive Bidding
QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection
QBS=  Quality-Based Selection



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 51
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
Procurement of works, goods and services, as well as contracting of consultants with World Bank funds, would
be carried out in accordance with guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loan and IDA credits (January and
August 1996 and revised September 1997) and the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January 1997 and
revised September 1997). Procurement would be carried out at central level by the PCU, with support from a
procurement agent, and at the local level by provincial and municipal entities and hospital units.
The PCU would include a full-time procurement officer whose main responsibility will be to prepare and: (a)
submit to the World Bank all procurement documents which require World Bank's prior review; (b) coordinate
with selected procurement agent the procurement of goods and services at central level; (c) coordinate and
monitor procurement requests by the provincial and municipal entities and hospital units; and (d) prepare and
submit to the World Bank at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed procurement schedule. The
appointment of the procurement officer would be done in consultation with the World Bank. At project launch,
the World Bank will deliver a procurement workshop to present and explain procurement guidelines. During
appraisal, the Borrower agreed to adopt the World Bank's  standard bidding documents for project
implementation.
The procurement arrangements under the project would be as follows:
Civil works: The civil works under the project include rehabilitation health centers and hospitals. These works
costing less than US$50,000 individually, would be procured through written quotations from at least three
qualified contractors up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million. Also, more extensive and complex
rehabilitation works for health facilities all estimated to cost less than US$500,000 would be procured through
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. PCU would assist the provincial, municipal and hospital units in the
procurement process.
Goods: Goods, other than pharmaceuticals, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Goods, including pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$5,000,000 equivalent for pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies and US$3,400,000 equivalent for other goods, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Larger
packages of same items would be procured through ICB.
Consultant services: Technical assistance, including assistance for conducting procurement audits, would be
hired through QCBS and QBS procedures at the PCU level. Training providers would be hired on the basis of
the qualifications and type of training offered by specialized training institutions, including foreign and local
universities and health institutes through Consultants Qualifications in packages costing less US$100,000 up to
an aggregate of US$1.9 million. Information, Education and Communication services would be hired through
QCBS and QBS procedures. Individual consultants would be hired for specialized services in several technical
fields, in an aggregate not to exceed US$3.2 million. PCU may consider hiring a procurement agent to assist
carrying out the major procurement actions under the Project, using QCBS procedures following international
advertisement seeking expressions of interest. Services for a procurement agent, may, with the World Bank's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Miscellaneous: Health care providers from public and private sector would be hired at the provincial and
municipal levels financed under Decentralized Health Systems subprojects totaling about US$7.8 million. The
health service providers could be procured following procedures satisfactory to the World Bank which include



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 52
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
that they would be prequalified in regional Health Care Registers, locally advertised, regularly updated and
based on qualification criteria, acceptable to the World Bank. The procurement under these subprojects would
be regulated by an Operations Manual, acceptable to the World Bank. Incremental operating costs totaling
US$3.2 million, including maintenance of infrastructure and equipment of health care facilities and PCU
operating costs, including salaries of staff, would be disbursed on the basis of annual plans acceptable to the
World Bank The PPF in an amount of US$1.8 million was disbursed on the basis of the agreed procurement
procedures.
Prior review: The prior review arrangements are presented in Table B.
Procurement plan: At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provided the basis of the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods. During the annual review meetings,
the Borrower would update the procurement schedule for the following year, including the ICB procedures, the
smaller procurement, the consultancy and training services and the number and estimated costs of the
subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan following the model procurement plan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 53
Country: Ecuador                                                Health Services Modernization Project
TABLE C
Allocation and Disbursement of Loan
Works                                   4.2                         60%
Goods
Equipment                               8.0                         70%
Pharmaceutical and Medical              7.7               70% up to US$5.0 million
Supplies                                                  50% up to US$2.7 million
Services
Systems Development                     5.0                        100%
Consultant Services                     2.0                        100%
Training                                4.5               100% up to US$3.0rmillion
70% up to US$1.5million
Medical Care                            7.8                         60%
Information, Education and              0.6                         60%
Communication (IEC)
Operational Costs                       3.2                90% until June 30, 2000
OperationaCosts  .2  60% until June 30, 2002
30% thereafter
PPF Refinancin                          2.0
Total-  -: -~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ng WF gmm W.W 6o fi':~  .I  E



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 54
Countiy: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
TABLE D
Disbursement Schedule
eete Eni                 ra3a 3sm                    Cuuatv
CY 98
________ Dec.-3                   1.8                          1.8
CY 99
Mar.3                  0.8                         2.6
Jun.-31                0.8                         3.4
Sep.-31                0.8                         4.2
Dec.-31                1.0                         5.2
Mar.-31                1.5                         6.7
Jun.-31                1.6                         8.3
Sep.-31                1.6                         9.9
Dec.-31                1.6                         11.5
Mar.-31                2.5                         14.0
Jun.-31                2.7                         16.7
Sep.-31                2.8                         19.5
Dec.-31                2.8                         22.3
CYO02
Mar.-31                2.9                         25.2
Jun.-31                2.9                         28.1
Sep.-31                2.9                         31.0
Dec.-31                3.0                         34.0
CYO03
Mar.-31                2.5                         36.5
Jun.-31                2.3                         38.8
Sep.-31                1.7                         40.5
Dec.-31                1.5                         42.0
CYO04
Mar.-31                1.5                         43.5
Jun.-31                1.5                         45.0
Note: Figures may not add up to totals because ofJrounding.
Retroactive Financin!. The World Bank would finance contracts retroactively for eligible expenditures
incurred after April 1, 1998 up to an amount of US$2.0 mnillion. These funds would be used to finance eligible
subprojects approved in line with the eligibility and appraisal criteria acceptable to the World Bankc.
Documentation. Disbursement would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures, except
for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000; (b) goods under contracts
costing less than US$100,000; (c) services of consulting firm under contracts costing less than US$100,000;



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 55
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
(d) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000; and (e) all operational and
training cost for which disbursement would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Supporting
documentation for the SOE would be maintained by MOH and would be available for auditors and review.
Svecial Account. The MOH would open a Special Account at Banco Central or commercial bank with an
initial deposit of US$3 million. The initial deposit would be limited to US$1.2 million, until disbursements
reach US$5 million. This would correspond to about four months of expenditures required under the project.
The PCU would forward to the World Bank the necessary documentation for disbursement (SOEs or full
documentation).
Financial manaeement. accountine. and auditina. The financial management assessment, including the
personnel, accounting, budgeting, internal control, reporting and audit arrangement for the project has been
found satisfactory. The PCU would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the World Bank. No later
than six months after the end of its fiscal year, the PCU would submit to the World Bank copies of audit
reports containing the auditor's opinion on project accounts, including statement of expenditures and the
Special Account.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 56
Country: Ecuador                                               Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                 Actual
Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations     249
B. Project Schedule                         Actual
Time taken to prepare the project           2 years (political transition, i.e., changes in
Govermnent in August 1996, and February 1997,
delayed project preparation)
Identification mnission                     February 1995
Appraisal mission departure                 March 1998
Negotiations                                May 1998
Planned date of effectiveness               December 1998
Prepared by:                         Ministry of Health of Ecuador and LCSHD
Preparation assistance:              Japanese Grant 29378
PPF 283-EC
Bank Staff and Consultants who worked on the project include:
Patricio Marquez (Task Manager, LCSHD), Evelyn Pesantez (RM-Ecuador), Oscar Echeverri (Consultant),
Carlos Manzi (Consultant), Alberto Gonima, John Panzer (LCC3C), Juan Luis Londofno (Consultant), Marta
Ospina (LCSHD), Wolfgang Munar (Consultant), Jean V. Pillet (Consultant), Marta Molares-Halberg
(LEGLA), Efraim Jimnenez (ECOPR), Issam Abousleiman and Cecilia Balchun (LOAEL); Eduardo Wallentin
(LCC4C); Paula di Mauro, Sarah Quinn (LCSHD)
Local Counterpart Team:
Political Level: Asdriibal De La Torre, Guillermo Wagner, Alfredo Palacio (Ministers of Public Health),
Alfredo Perez Rueda (General Viceminister), Marcelo Aguilar (General Director), Ernesto Gutierrez (General
Coordinator).
Technical Level: Fernando Sacoto (Technical Director ); Consultants: M6nica Padilla, Bernarda Salas, Jose
Luis Cagigal, Ramiro Echeverria, Carlos Freire, Jaime Bolanos, Emesto Mantilla, Gladys Coello, Ma.
Carmen Quevedo, Enrique Lasprilla, Rodrigo Yepez, Gustavo Estrella, Soledad Salvador, Alfredo Canpana,
Beatriz Reyes, James Cercone, Marcelo L6pez, Mercy Almeida, Edgar Rodas, Cesar Hermida, Jose Maria
Egas, David Acurio.
Administrative Level : Ramiro Andrade, Anita Munioz, Susana Cordovilla, Yolanda Samaniego, Ximena
Ruiz, M6nica Duque, Fernando Gaibor.
Peer Reviewers:
Chris Lovelace, Director (ECSHD); Jacques Baudouy, Director (MHSHD).
Additional comments provided by Xavier Coll, Acting Director (LCSHD); Constance Corbett
(LCC4C/LCSHD); Charles Griffin, Hernan Montenegro (LCSHD); Gerard Anderson (Center for Hospital
Finance and Management, Johns Hopkins University); Gilles Dussault (University of Montreal).



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 57
Country: Ecuador                                               Health Services Modernization Project
ANNEX 8
Documents in the Project File
1. ProjetAppraisalDocument (PAD)
* Anexo 1 PAD:  Indicadores claves de rendimiento
* Anexo 2a:       Contenidos del Proyecto MODERSA, detalle por componentes.
* Anexo 2b:       Ciclo de subproyectos y criterios de elegibilidad
* Anexo 3:        Costos estimados del proyecto
* Anexo 4:        Impacto fiscal
* Anexo 5:        Resumen financiero
* Anexo 6:        Adquisiciones y procedimiento de desembolsos
* Plan de Adquisiciones
2. Policy Letter Signed by the President of Ecuador and the Minister of Health, November 1997
3. Gufa para la Organizacion de Sistemas Descentralizados de Salud y para la Modernizacidn
Hospitalaria
4. Manual de operaciones administrativofinanciero del Proyecto
5. Documentos del Componente de Redes Locales de Servicios de Salud:
* Red cantonal de salud de Tena
* Red cantonal de salud de Cuenca
- Programas Integrados de Gerencia Hospitalaria y de Servicios Ambulatorios de Salud
- Borradores de Acuerdos para la organizaci6n y funcionamniento de redes cantonales de salud.
6. Documentos del Componente de ModernizaciEJn Hospitalaria:
* Programa de mejoramiento de la calidad de la atenci6n de Hospital Eugenio Espejo de Quito
* Plan de Modernizaci6n del Hospital Enrique Garces de Quito
* Programa de mejoramiento de la calidad de la atenci6n de Hospital Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra de Tena.
7. Documentos del Componente de Politica Sectorial
* Formulacion de Politicas de Salud en el Ecuador
* Consensos para una propuesta de politicas de salud en el Ecuador
* Lineamientos para el plan de modernizaci6n del MSP
* Politica de recursos humanos de salud en el Ecuador
* Acuerdo de creaci6n del Comite de Fortalecimiento Institucional (CFI)



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 58
Country: Ecuador                                              Health Services Modernization Project
* Decreto alternativo y reglamento para implementaci6n del Modelo de Gesti6n Descentralizada de
Servicios de Salud
* Ley Especial de Descentralizaci6n del Estado y de Participaci6n Social.
1. Anexos Complementarios al PAD:
* Informe de situaci6n de manejo de residuos hospitalarios para ficha ambiental del Proyecto.
* Bases para la estimaci6n de costos y financiamiento del Proyecto MODERSA.
JOHNS HGPKINS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH
1. Proyecto de Reforma Hospitalaria en el Ecuador: 22 de mayo de 1996
Parte I:         Hospital Reform in Ecuador
Parte II:        Annexes
2. Mejoramiento de la Capacidad Gerencial
3. Hospital Acreditation for Ecuador
4. Asignaci6n de recursos I
5. Asignaci6n de recursos IX
6. Accounting and Reporting Systems Public Sector Hospital
7. Hospital Quality of Care
8. Evaluaci6n
9. Hospital y Red de Servicios
10. Estimation of Health Care Demand and Potential for Hospital User Fees (Recuperaci6n de Costos)
11. A plan to modernize hospital services and reform the health sector in Ecuador (versi6n Diciembre, 1996)
12.Material para el Seminario de Alta Gerencia, realizado en Quito entre el 7 y 18 de julio de 1997
The California Consortium (Lewin-VHI, The Healthcare Redesign Group, Prof. Alain Enthoven of
Stanford University)
1. Option for Health Reform in Ecuador. Prepared for the Ministry of Health and the National Health
Council of Ecuador. May 1996



ANNEX9                                                                                                X
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ecuador
IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between              I
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual,
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                 IORD         IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 56
Active Loans
EC-PE-40086    IBRD42770    1998   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR                  INDIGENOUS PEOPLES                25.00         0.00            0.00         25.00         0.00       0.00
EC-PE-55571    IBRD42590    1998   GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR (MI            EL NINO                           60.00         0.00            0.00         60.00         0.00       0.00
EC-PE-7135      IBRD42790    1998   GOVERNMENT                          AGRIC CENSUS & INFO               20.00         0.00            0.00         20.00         0.00       0.00
EC-PE-36056    IBRD40660    1997   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                  JUDICIAL REFORM                    10.70        0.00            0.00         10.18          .73       0.00
EC-PE-7131      IBRD40750    1997   GOVERNMENT                          AG RESEARCH                       21.00         0.00            0.00         20.80         3.15       0.00
EC-PE-7128      IBRD39980    1996   GOV'T OF ECUADOR                    ENV MANAGEMENT PROJ                15.00        0.00            0.00          13.01        4.63       0.00
EC-PE-7132      IBRD38210    1995   GOVT. OF ECUADOR                    PUB ENT REF (TA)                   12.00        0.00            0.00           3.39        3.37       0.00
EC-PE-7136      IBRD38220    1995   GOVT. ECUADOR                       TA MDRN OF STATE                  20.00         0.00            0.00          11.18       -3.62       0.00
EC-PE-7105      IBRD37300    1994   GOVT OF ECUADOR        R            IRRIG TA                          20.00         0.00            0.00          15.46       11.36       0.00
EC-PE-7129      IBRD36550    1994   GOVERNMENT                          TA MINING                          14.00        0.00            0.00           9.09        7.70       0.00
EC-PE-7087      IBRD35100    1993   GOVT OF ECUADOR        R            SOC DEVT II/HEALTHNN               70.00        0.00            0.00          30.73       20.70       0.00
EC-PE-7107      IBRD34250    1992   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR                 SOC DEVT I/ED & TRG               89.00         0.00            0.00          39.49       31.01       4.69
EC-PE-7115      IBRD33900    1992   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR                 RURAL DEV                         84.00         0.00            0.00          18.11       16.58       0.00
EC-PE-7100      IBRD32760    1991   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR                 GUAYAS FL'D CNTL                   59.00        0.00            0.00           3.88        -.12       0.00
EC-PE-7123      IBRD32850    1991   GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR               MUNIC DEV I                      104.00         0.00            0.00          31.51       31.51       0.00
Total                                                                                                    623.70         0.00            0.00         311.83      127.00       4.69
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   318.31            1,497.96             1,816.27
of which has been repaid:                   33.04               863.62              896.66
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   598.42              636.35             1,234.77                                                                                          e
Amount sold                      :                  0.00                 3.21                3.21
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                3.21                 3.21
Total Undisbursed                :                311.83                 2.47              314.30
a
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a                            I
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                                0
:2 .i



Ecuador
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio                                           g
As of 3 1-Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval        Company       Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1969/73n7/81/82/87  COFIEC           0.00      .31    0.00    0.00   0.00    .31    0.00    0.00
1993               REYBANPAC         7.83    0.00    0.00    0.00   7.83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Agrocapital       3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:            11.33     .31    0.00    0.00  11.33    .31    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending
Loan Eauitv Quasi Partic
Total Pending Commitment:   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
(j
3.
0.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                      Page 61
Country: Ecuador                                                                                        Health Services Modenization Project
Annex 10
Ecuador at a glance
Latin Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             AmrNea  middle-
Ecuador   & Carib.  Income       Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (mWiiaons)                          11.7       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1 99  (US5) (Atlas)                     1,530     3,710    1,750                 Life expectbncy
GNP 1996 (bilions uS$)                                  17.8      1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 199049S
Population (%)                                           2.2        1.7      1.4     GNP                               Gros
Labor forcet%)                                           3.2        2.3      1.6                                       Gron
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capit                         enroDment
Poverty. headcount index (% of population)               35
Urban population (X of total population)                 58         74       56
Life expectancy at birth (yewrs)                         69         89       67
lntnt mortality (per 1,000 five bilhs)                   36         37       41                Aoceaa to safe vater
Child melnutrtion (% of children undar 5)                45
Access to safe water (X of population)                   70         80       78
Illiteracy (% dpopulation age 15+)                       10         13        ..          -     Ecuador
Gross primary enroirrment 1% of schoolPage population)  123        110      104
Male                                                  124          ..     105
Female                                                122          ..     101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratloe
GDP (biNlions USS)                              4.3     12.1       18.0     19.2
Gross domestic investrnentVGDP                26.7      18.2       18.7     17.3              Openne  ofeconomy
Exporis of goods and services/GDP             26.2      26.8      29.7      30.5
Gross domestic savingstGDP                    20.3      24.1       19.7     24.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    18.7      16.7       14.6     16.4
Current acoount balance/GDP                    -5.1      0.0      -4.1      -1.1
Interestpayments/GDP                           0.7       6.1        4.6      4.8     Savings                       Investrnent
Total debVGDP                                  21,0     71.7       77.7     76.6
Total debt servicelexports                      8.5     33.0       26.7     27.5
Present value of debtGDP                         ..       ..      70.1
Present value of debttexports                    ..       ..    237.3                             Indebtedness
1975-45  198-96      1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                         Ecuador
GDP                                   3.9      3.2       2.3        2.0      4.3
GNPpercaprt                           0.3       1.0      0.6       -0.2      1.8              Low       n     n up
Exports cl goods and servies          2.3      7.6       5.2       3.6       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     195        1995     1996
If of GOP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                    17.9     13.3       11.9     11.9      3 0    A
Industry                                      33.9      40.7      36.4      36.9     20   /I\
Manufacturing                                16.0     18.9       21.1     21.6                  \
Services                                      48.2      46.0      51.6      51.2      o
-1t
Private consunption                           65.2      64.5      67.7      63.9    -20
General govemmentconsumption                  14.5      11.5      12.6      11.8
lfIports d goods and services                 32.7      20.9      28.6      23.4                                  GDP
197545  1986-96       1995      1996
(average nnual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                     1.7      38         3.2      3.5      20
Industry                                        4.8      27         2.4      1.0
Manufacturing                                 5.2      1.6        2.2      3.3            /\
Services                                       3.9       3.3        1.9      2.6
Private consurrpbon                            4.4       25        22        1.9      0
General govemment consumption                  3.0      -0.7        1.9     -1.0              *I 92   93              00
Gross domestic investment                      -0.9      1.7        8.5    -11.6    -*t
Imnports of goods and services                 -0.6      3.5        9.8     -5S9                    Expab   -rnIpt
Gross national product                          3.1      3.4        3.1      2.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its inoome-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wil
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                               Page 62
Country: Ecuador                                                                                   Health Services Modernization Project
Ecuador
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domeasc prlees                                                                       inlation (%J
(56 change)                                                                           o
Consumer pnces                                 15.4     28.2      22.9      24.3    so
40
Implicit GDP defltor                          10.0      30.9      23.2      29.4    3o
OovemmentV hnce                                                                      10
(5 of GDP)                                                                            0
Current Revenue                                         26.7      22.5      21.7             s     S2    5      50    S6   so
Curmntbudgetbalance                                      6.6        4.1      4.6              -     GDFdd.  +-OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  1.6       -2.5     -3.0
TRADE
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                    2,905     4,411    4,890      6.0Do
Fuel                                                 1,927      1,560    1,776                                          _
Bananas                                                220       857       973     ;o _00
Manufactures                                   ..      158       690       836      3,O0O 00III
Total imports (cif)                             ..     1,766     4,153    3,724    2z0IIIHII
Food                                            ..      94       442       478
Fuel and energy                                ..      198       241       160      10Imo
Capital goods                                  ..      526      1,378    1,111          _______________
Exportnpiceindex(1987t100)                              113        116      112            so  el  S2  5$  94  SS  Se
Importpriceindex(1987=100)                       ,,      88        116      126                  oExpors    r impors
Terms oftrade (1987=100)                                128        100       89
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Currant account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsogoodsandservices                     1,110    3,302      5,348    5,841 o
Importsofgoodsandservices                    1,295    2,247      5,155    4,487          so   Si
Resource balance                              -185    1,055        193    1,354
Net income                                     -87   -1,059      -1,159   -1,857     2
Net current transfers                           32        0    231   290   2VJUUUE
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -220        -4       -735     -213
Financing items (net)                          156      211        565      487
Changes in net reserves 1- = increase)          64      -207       170      -274     4
Aemo_
Reserves including gold (milL US$)             307      854      1,779    z011
Conversion rate (bca=S)                      25.0      91.5    2,564.5  3,189.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1996     1996
(millions USS)                                                                       ComposSfon of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           907    8,703     13,957   14,674
IBRO                                          43      269      1,082      980                   G      A   B
IDA                                           28       35         27       25                  1313          25 c
1SO
Total debt service                              96    1,098       1,416    1,573                                     D
IBRD                                           6       47        167      194                                    2778
IDA                                            0        1          1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Olrcial grants                                 3       25         69
Official creditors                            45      184        378      447                                      E
Private creditors                            196      201        726      404             F                      2237
Foreign drect investment                      95       62        470      447           7191
Portfolio equity                               0        0          1
World Bank program
Commitments                                    4        0        312       26      A-18RD                       E-Bilaterall
Disbursements                                 17       40        319       89      B-IDA    D-Olhrmuilateral   F- Pte
Principalrepayments                            4       25         99      120      C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Netflows                                      13       15        220       -31    _ 
Interest payments                              3       22         69       75
Nettranders                                   10        -8       151     -106
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/28/97



IBRD 28022
81'                       80                       79                         78                       77'                        76
San Lorenzo
ESMERALDAS
7l /   )   EDAS   9  tS                  C O  L O M B I A
eESMERALDAS -)  C-RC                          a .
)eZ6ra                                          l       A          RT           5 \
/                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lago Agrio  $  TTTrto e
/0                                                  C $  +   1\<  4   .\,naya`    _                   2ormen de   '       ,        0
S  anto omiHngjnoH  r#               -      -Shus                                     uuO     
IjkroFrancisc
Bahia de Car6quez                                                                                          / / d Orellana
4                                             (                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~N" A   P   0
MantaS  w:                     ,                  O                pArchidona~~~~~~LA                                      Rocafuerte 
Mainia                  alceta  2                  CArch iclona                                                                                   te
~0R1?OVIEJ     rra                            __<              %TENA
GAA A ZA
Sucua~~~  M 0 R 0A N AA Z-
-2-  ~                                                                                                                                                           2  n'-y' '-,
~~~~~~a                                               MACHASA@           
_XoPosoria        ,/aronia\                                                                                        716'
Paza Guti6rrez..                    30
+Q   ~               ~                .7ECUADOR
L                                ual )  aGuaIaquizaI
_  <l, \      yAM  A>                     GALAPAGOS ISLANDS                               PAVED ROADS
'A                         ( lARCHIPIELAGO DE COLON)            -        OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
tacoc;HIN/ ISLA  RAILROADS
-A'                    -ata                                                  ISLA ~~MARCHEfNA                              AROT
X-~'  f-Catacoca  Z        I  SAA                                ISLA GENOVESA                    PORTS
> <'L 0   A ~~~~~~~~~~  I~~~E ~PORTS
['    +94_  f_._ /< B   \ /foc                                       o~~~~~~~~0~      RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ISLA SAN SALVADOR                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
P  E  R  U                               FERNANDINA                         ISLA SANTA CRUZ
ISLA                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominations
-5-                                         5 5  0    5    00ISABLA                         LASNCITAI                       andl any other information shos,n on
0    25   50   75   100            S'ASLASANCRISTOBAL                                                               this mop do not imply, on the part of
L  -L   -j  -1.                                                            I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ The Worldi Bank Group, any judigment
KILOMETERS                                                     ISLA                                         on the legal status of any territory, or
0   35  S0  75  loo SANTA MARIA                 ISLA ESPANOLA            any endorsement or acceptance of
__________________                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~such boundaries.
81'                              80'                       KILOMETERS        91'                   90'
MAY 1996



