Report No. PID5050
Project Name                     Ecuador-Health Services Modernization (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       ECPE39084
Borrower                         Government of Ecuador
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Health
Date PID Prepared                March 16, 1998
Appraisal Date                   March 1998
Expected Board Date              June/July 1998
Country and Sector Background: Ecuador is a country of sharp contrasts.
Despite a per capita GDP of nearly US$1,300, over half of its population live
below or marginally above the poverty line. About 40 percent of households
lack sewerage facilities, half do not have access to running water, and over
30 percent have limited or no access to health services. Geographic,
cultural, logistical and financial factors further hinder access to health
services, particularly in rural and peri-urban areas. About 14 percent of the
adult population is illiterate (16 percent for women). Health and nutrition
status ranks among the lowest in Latin America. Maternal mortality at 160 per
100,000 live births is more than 20 times the rate of Canada or the United
States. The infant mortality rate of 40 per 1,000 is about four times higher
than in Cuba, Costa Rica and Chile. The population growth rate averaged 2.4
percent from 1985-1993. While these indicators have improved since the 1970s,
they are still significantly worse than the regional averages and the averages
for countries in Ecuador's per capita income range, suggesting that, in spite
of some increases in public spending on health and education services, most of
the benefits of the petroleum boom of the 1970s did not trickle down to the
poor. Instead, both rapid growth and the subsequent slowdown led to
increasing inequities in income and wealth distribution, making poverty
reduction a priority for the country's present development agenda.
Achievement of long-term sustainable growth and stability will require
economic diversification, which in turn will require a substantial improvement
in the human capital base through expanded access to: (i) health services and
sanitary living conditions; and (ii) education.
Limited resources in the public sector severely affect the quantity and
quality of health services, and inefficiencies in program operations are
widespread throughout the system. Ministry of Health (MOH) expenditures
primarily benefit the poor, while the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute
(IESS) expenditures largely go to the non-poor. While the non-poor are more
likely to turn to the private sector for medical care, 43 percent of the poor
also seek private providers, signaling that basic public health services are
in scarce supply due to poor distribution of resources and underfunding. MOH
provides regular access to less than 30 percent of the population and other
public and charitable organizations provide health care to another 5 percent.
Formal health insurance coverage is very low, particularly in comparison with
other Latin American countries: IESS covers only 10 percent of the
population, the Peasant Health Insurance reaches 8% and private health
insurance companies and the armed forces each cover 1 percent respectively.



Resources are not allocated according to need, leading to a large disparity in
their distribution across geographical areas. Approximately 80 percent of MOH
professional personnel are concentrated in cities as are the bulk of IESS
facilities. In contrast, rural residents, who represent about 40 percent of
the population, must often travel to cities to seek health care. Expenditures
on health are consequently a big budget item for the poor, averaging 12
percent of total household expenditures in urban areas and 17 percent in rural
areas.
Total health expenditures as a share of GDP in the mid 1990s are
estimated at 5.2 percent or US$ 70 per capita. Direct household expenditures
on health amount to 63t of overall health spending (more than half for
purchasing drugs), while the IESS, including the Peasant Social Insurance
Program (SSC) and the MOH account for 17 and 16 percent of total health
spending respectively. Other charitable and public programs are responsible
for the remaining 4 percent. There is a vast amount of duplication of
facilities between MOH, IESS and other public and private providers in large
cities, and the productivity of some hospitals is extremely low (average
occupancy rate lower than 60 percent). The supply of health personnel and
hospital beds is also unevenly distributed among regions, and salaries account
for about 75 percent of total recurrent expenditures. Management and technical
weaknesses further limit the implementation of policies and programs and
constrain health sector development. Besides the promotion of measures to
improve efficiency, effectiveness and quality of care in selected
public/social security hospitals, alternative integrated health service
delivery models operating under new incentive and regulatory frameworks should
be supported in the medium and long term in Ecuador to reach the poorest
segments of the population that reside in peri-urban and rural areas.
Project Objectives: The main objective of the project is to improve the
health status of the poor in selected provinces and municipalities through the
development of decentralized demonstration models for integrating public and
private providers into health care networks operating under performance
agreements or contracts for the delivery of services. Additionally, the
project would provide assistance to integrate selected provincial and national
hospitals into municipal networks as semi-autonomous or autonomous referral
centers. The proposed project is a prime vehicle for promoting additional
sector-wide reforms in Ecuador's health system following the initial
groundwork laid by the ongoing World Bank-financed FASBASE project (II Social
Development Project -- Health and Nutrition, LN 3510).
Project Description: The project's main components are: (i)
Provincial/Municipal Integrated Health Care Networks; (ii) Hospital
Modernization; (iii) Policy Development, Human Resources Management and
Consensus Building and (iv) Project Administration.
The Provincial/Municipal Integrated Health Care Networks (IHCN)
component would promote community and provincial and municipal government
participation in health care through the organization of Provincial and
Municipal Health Boards responsible for: (i) developing a local health plan,
including demonstration models for integrated health care networks; (ii)
categorizing and affiliating users to IHCNs according to income level; (iii)
establishing and managing a local health fund for financing services provided
by the IHCN to its affiliates; (iv) develop a copayment and user charges
system and (v) modernize management structures and practices in participant
-2 -



health care network providers.
The Hospital Modernization component would assist selected hospitals in
modernizing their organization and governance structure, management practices
and improving health care quality by: (i) implementing semi-or autonomous
managerial arrangements including user participation; (ii) strengthening
planning and decision making; (iii) developing human resources through
selective training and continuing education and career development; (iv)
implementing financial administration and management information systems; (v)
revamping cost recovery policies and systems and (vi) financing civil works,
equipment, maintenance and supplies for refurbishing and upgrading existing
facilities.
The Policy Development, Human Resources Management and Consensus
Building component would support studies and activities to (i) clarify the
scope and responsibilities for the MOH and the National Health Council; (ii)
strengthen the capacity and improve the quality of MOH decision making,
resource allocation, management and evaluation processes as well as the
advisory and consensus building role of the National Health Council to
coordinate health policies among the various sectoral institutions; (iii)
develop national health objectives; (iv) develop policies for reforming supply
and distribution of physicians and nurses and (v) promote information,
education and communication activities to achieve consensus on health care
reform. These activities would be coordinated and implemented in conjunction
with institutional-strengthening support provided in the ongoing FASBASE
project.
The Project Administration component would support overall project
implementation by national and municipal units.
Project Financing: The projected cost of the proposed project is about US$ 61
million. The proposed World Bank loan would finance about US$ 44 million (72
percent) and the Government of Ecuador would provide the remaining 28 percent
of project financing.
Project Implementation: Project implementation would be coordinated by the
MOH through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the Provincial/Municipal
Health Boards (HB). The PCU, headed by a General Coordinator assisted by
technical and administrative teams would: (i) direct and provide technical
assistance and monitor and supervise implementation of sub-projects; (ii)
coordinate implementation of policy and institutional reform studies and
consensus building activities; (iii) supervise the goods and services
procurement under subprojects and (iv) provide the World Bank with project
implementation status reports. Project implementation would follow a gradual
and incremental approach, allowing for the pilot testing of different
instruments and methodologies in selected provinces and local areas before
introducing them in subsequent provinces and local areas.
Project Sustainability: The project would be sustainable because it enjoys
support at the highest political levels; major sectoral stakeholders,
particularly municipal governments, have been involved in project preparation
and would participate in project implementation assuring country ownership;
the fiscal impact of the investments is modest; and project implementation
would be coordinated by a strong technical group at the PCU with support from
provincial and municipal councils as well as the central MOH. The proposed
-3 -



project would help rationalize sectoral spending by reforming the organization
and financing of public health facilities, particularly hospitals, and
increasing their operational efficiency, which are likely to bring cost-
savings over the medium-term. To increase the proposed project's leverage in
promoting policy and institutional reforms, its activities would be closely
tied to the ongoing MOSTA Project that supports the modernization of public
institutions in Ecuador.
Lesson from Past Operations: The main lessons from the FASBASE project and
other similar projects are: (i) technical assistance and health facility
rehabilitation projects should be of defined scope and linked to a clear
policy framework so as to permit adequate preparation, focused implementation
and supervision; (ii) borrower commitment to reforms is essential to develop a
sense of project ownership; and (iii) there should be intensive technical
supervision and an adequate monitoring system in order to permit adjustments
in project design and implementation. Additionally, other lessons
specifically point to the importance of (i) beneficiary participation in
project design and implementation and (ii) full transparency, accountability,
and well-defined subproject eligibility criteria.
Government Commitment: The submission of a Health Policy Letter to the World
Bank outlining the Government's medium-term goals for the sector, the sector
reform program, and the commitment to finance and implement these reforms in
conjunction with provincial and municipal councils, establishes Government
commitment to the project and the health sector reform.
Poverty Category: The proposed project is included in the Program of Poverty
Targeted Interventions as it addresses poverty reduction by explicitly
focusing project activities on improving the access and quality of health
services to the poor. Additionally, by helping develop sound reform policies,
public sector management should improve and public health expenditures can
shift toward the poor.
Environmental Aspects: The proposed project would have not environmental
risks.
Program Objective Category: The category for this project is Poverty
Reduction and Human Resource.
Contact point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 9, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



