Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4342-EC
Loan Agreement
(Health Services Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 25, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4342-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF 
ECUADOR (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
the Bank  has received a letter dated November 13, 1997 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to improve the Borrower’s health sector (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means any of the plans referred to 
in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Decentralized Health Care Subproject” means a subproject 
for the establishment and operation of decentralized and integrated 
health care systems for the delivery of essential health care services by 
public and private providers, which is eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual (as defined below);
(c)
“Eligible Hospital” means a hospital which is eligible as a 
beneficiary of a Hospital Modernization Subproject (as defined below) in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual;
(d)
“Eligible Beneficiary” means a municipality, province or 
autonomous health entity which is eligible as a beneficiary of a 
Decentralized Health Care Subproject in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual;
(e)
“Hospital Modernization Subproject” means a subproject for 
the modernization of the organization and governance, and the structure 
and management practices of the Borrower’s hospitals, and for the 
improvement of health care quality of such hospitals, which is eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual;
(f)
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements and 
arrangements to be entered into by the Borrower pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Indicators” means the performance monitoring indicators for 
the Project set forth in a supplemental letter of even date herewith;
(h)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(i)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth the criteria and procedures for implementation of all 
parts of the Project as the same may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation 
Page  3
advances granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of 
letters dated respectively October 20, 1995 and November 13, 1995; and 
October 6, 1996 and November 29, 1996, between the Borrower and the Bank;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(m)
“Subproject” means a Decentralized Health Care Subproject or 
a Hospital Modernization Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to forty five million Dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank or a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event the account is opened in 
a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including 
an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
Page  4
following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end shall, through MOH, carry out Parts A, with the 
assistance of Eligible Beneficiaries, and B and C of the Project, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, technical, and 
health practices, and the Operational Manual and the Indicators, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets, 
and make available promptly as needed, the counterpart funds required for 
the Project as provided in the Annual Operating Plan for the respective 
year.
Section 3.02 (a)  The Borrower, through MOH, shall, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank:
(i)
enter into a participation agreement with each 
Eligible Beneficiary setting 
forth the respective 
responsibilities of MOH and the Eligible Beneficiary in 
the preparation and implementation of Decentralized Health Care 
Subprojects;
(ii)
enter into an executing agreement with each Eligible 
Beneficiary setting forth 
their respective responsibilities 
in the implementation of a specific 
Decentralized 
Health Care Subproject; and
(iii)
make arrangements with each of the directors of the 
Eligible Hospitals setting 
forth their respective 
responsibilities in the implementation of Hospital 
Modernization Subprojects.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to achieve the purposes of the Loan, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of 
the Project, a Project management unit in MOH staffed by professionals 
with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified personnel in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall through MOH:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than August 31 of each year, until completion of 
the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual operating 
plan for the implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve 
months, such plan to comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out 
under the Project during the respective year; (ii) the objectives, and 
expected results or outputs of such activities; (iii) the corresponding 
cost estimates and budgets, including the counterpart funds; (iv) the 
proposed revisions to the Indicators, if applicable; and (v) the relevant 
institutional arrangements and responsibilities;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  6
and furnish to the Bank on or about June 30 and December 31 each year, 
commencing June 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(d)
review with the Bank by July 31 and January 31 each year, or 
such later dates as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (c) of this Section; and
(e)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall ensure that Subprojects are 
appraised, selected, carried out, financed, monitored and supervised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection 
with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by independent private 
auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four 
months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts 
and a report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have 
Page  7
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
Eligible Beneficiary shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, any 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
Operational Manual has been adopted by MOH.
Section 6.02. The date of December 29, 1998 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of  Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Av. 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Edgar Rodas A.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
  4,200,000
60%
(2)
Goods (other than
  8,000,000
70%
Pharmaceuticals and
Medical Supplies)
(3)
Pharmaceutical and
  7,700,000
70% until withdrawals
Medical Supplies
under this Category
have reached an
aggregate amount of
$5,000,000; and 
thereafter,
50%
(4)
Training
  4,500,000
100% until withdrwals
under this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount of $3,000,000;
and thereafter, 70%
(5)
Medical Care
  7,800,000
60%
(6)
Systems
  5,000,000
100%
Development
(7)
Consultants'
  2,000,000
100%
Services
including
audits
(8)
Information,
    600,000
60%
Education and
Communication
(9)
Operating Costs
  3,200,000
90% for payments
made until June 30,
2000; 60% for payments
made until June 30,
2002 and 30% thereafter
(10)
Refunding of
  2,000,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advances
of this Agreement
TOTAL
 45,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Medical Care” means the cost of fees charged by 
public or private health care providers for the provision of health 
services included in a Decentralized Health Care Subproject;
(b)
the term “Information, Education and Communication” means 
the cost of media advertising, travel and per diem of participants and 
trainers, rental of sites, publications, and other costs related to the 
implementation of the information campaign included in Part C.2 of the 
Page  10
Project;
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs, and salaries of officials of the Borrower assigned to the Project 
Management Unit; and
(d)
the term “Systems Development” means the costs of services 
required for the development of management, organizational and financial 
systems for Subprojects.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods procured pursuant to the provisions of Section I, Part 
C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, after the first two contracts to be 
signed each year have been approved by the Bank;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract;
(c)
consulting firm and individual consultants’ services under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent, 
respectively; and
(d)
training and operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in 
expanding access to, and improving the quality and efficiency of, 
ambulatory and hospital services in its territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Decentralized Health Systems
Financing of Decentralized Health Care Subprojects.
Part B:
Hospital Modernization
Financing of Hospital Modernization Subprojects.
Part C:
Policy Development, Human Resources Management, and 
Consensus Building
Page  11
1.
Provision of technical assistance:
(a)
to develop policies, draft laws and regulations to set forth 
MOH’s regulatory and monitoring role, and the advisory functions of the 
Borrower’s national health council; and
(b)
(i)
to develop the Borrower’s human resource policies and 
strategies, including 
formulation of amendments to the 
Borrower’s civil service law labor code; and
(ii)
to modify its health code.
2.
Carrying out of an information campaign, including workshops and 
seminars, designed to reach consensus on the health reforms to be 
implemented by the Borrower.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2003
through March 15, 2015
1,875,000
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and in September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods 
(including pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C.3 hereof, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of works under the 
provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard bidding 
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International Shopping
Goods (including pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent for pharmaceuticals and medical 
supplies and $3,400,000 equivalent for other goods, may  be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  13
3.
National Shopping
Goods (other than pharmaceuticals) estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made 
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to:
(i)
each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Section I, Part B.1 
hereof; and
(ii)
the first two contracts procured each year pursuant 
to the provisions of 
Section I, Part C.1 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured 
each year pursuant to the provisions of Section I, Part C.2 hereof, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
Page  14
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for training, including study tours and scholarship under 
Subprojects, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
The services of health service providers for Subprojects under Part 
A of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed for all such 
services $7,800,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank including, inter alia, the requirement 
of prequalification in a register acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for a procurement agent may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Specialized services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and for technical fields as 
the Bank shall agree, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
Page  15
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be provided to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.
Section III.  Special Provisions
Part A:
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B.1 
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of 
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative 
proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud 
when opened.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local 
representative for purposes of submitting bids.
3.
Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial solvency 
certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring party without 
recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or 
entity.
Page  16
4.
Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties 
approved by the procuring party shall be admissible without 
recertification or other participation by any Ecuadorian bank or other 
Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.
Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider of 
services shall not be required to be counter guaranteed by such supplier 
or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent the procuring 
party from obtaining other performance warranties from such suppliers or 
providers.
Part B:
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of works referred to in Part C.1 
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all 
contracts.
2.
The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which shall 
be at least thirty days from the date of the last advertisement of the 
invitation to bid.
3.
The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days 
in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.
Contracts must be awarded to the responsive bidder whose bid was 
evaluated as the lowest in accordance with criteria set forth in the 
bidding documents.
Part C:
In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the 
following provisions shall govern all employment of consultants referred 
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered 
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or 
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting 
contracts to any local firm or person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to 
provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital 
different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be 
required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are 
different from those required for Ecuadorian consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or 
her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or 
any other position in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadorian public 
sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into 
any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting 
Page  17
services.
Section IV.   Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods and works to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and 
contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by 
the Borrower’s Minister of Health or any person or entity he or she may 
designate in writing.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of 
contracts or of consultant selection processes required under the laws of 
the Borrower, shall be given only by the Borrower’s Minister of Health or 
any person or entity he or she may designate in writing.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means Categories (1) through 
(9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,200,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
Page  18
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
Page  19
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
