Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND No. 29378
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Technical Assistance and Hospital Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated  September
28, 1995
TRUST FUND No. 29378
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds 
provided by JAPAN
(Japan).
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule
2
to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows
:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01.
(a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and
2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Page  3
Sections
2.01
(8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section
5.01
thereof, means the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Technical Assistance;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."; and
(viii)
the second sentence of Section
5.01
shall be modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MSP" means Ministerio de Salud
P
ú
blica
,
the Recipient's Ministry of Public 
Page  4
Health;
(b)
"IESS" means Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social
,
the Recipient's Social 
Security Institute;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(d)
"Yen" and "Y" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section
2.01.
The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of sixty-four 
million two hundred thousand Yen
(
¥
64,200,000).
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Technical Assistance, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account either: (i) in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment; or (ii) in Banco
Central
del
Ecuador
,
on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4
to this Agreement.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section
2.04.
The Recipient's Minister of Public Health or any person designated by him 
or her in writing is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement 
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section
3.01.
The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance, through MSP, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, administrative, 
technical, public health and social security practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
Section
3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
Page  5
goods and consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
Section
3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical Assistance or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent private auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, all 
records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Termination
Page  6
Section
4.01.
This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
thereto.
Section
4.02.
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section
5.01.
Except as provided by Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance and Public Credit of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section
11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section
5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Finanzas y Cr
édito Público
Avenida
10
de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANZAS
22358
MINFIN-ED
Quito, Ecuador
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA),
64145
(WUI) or
82987
(FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Page  7
By
/s/ Gonzalo Salvador 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By
/s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Yen Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
54,456,000
100%
Services
(2)
Training 8,064,000
100%
(3)
Incremental
1,680,000
85%
Operating
Costs
TOTAL
64,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the additional expenditures of 
MSP required for the implementation of the Technical Assistance, including secretarial and 
logistical support; and
(b)
the term "Training" means the expenditures of MSP with regard to Part (d) of the 
Page  8
Technical Assistance, including the cost of: (i) travel and per diem of study tours of MSP 
personnel; and
(ii) seminars.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for consultant's services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent in the 
case of individuals and $100,000 equivalent in the case of firms; and
(b)
all Incremental Operating Costs and Training,
under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of Technical Assistance
(a)
Assessment of the organizational, financial, technological and functional issues 
of the Recipient's public and social security hospital network, including studies on:
(i)
the present model of hospital care delivery in the territory of the 
Recipient, focusing on the function of hospitals within the health system; 
the referral system from the primary to the hospital level; the need, 
demand, and supply of hospital services, particularly emergency care; 
and the level of technological complexity and capacity to resolve health 
problems;
(ii)
the functional, physical, and technological conditions, pharmacy 
materials and supplies, hotel services, diagnostic procedures, 
maintenance systems, management of medical waste, and control of 
hospital infections of the hospital network in the territory of the 
Recipient;
(iii)
the general organization, decision-making and management, patient 
administration, financing mechanisms (including cost recovery), 
resource allocation mechanisms, incentive and control systems, and 
quality assurance mechanisms in the Recipient's hospital network; and
(iv)
the feasibility of alternative organizational and management models of 
hospital administration and financing, placing emphasis in the separation 
of health financing and health care delivery functions in the public 
sector, including both MSP and IESS's facilities.
(b)
Preparation of a detailed physical and functional design of the rehabilitation, 
refurbishing and upgrading of hospitals in areas covered by the proposed Technical Assistance 
and Hospital Reform Project.
Page  9
(c)
Preparation of detailed designs of computerized health information, financial and 
accounting systems, as well as the requirements for the corresponding hardware, for selected 
hospitals in the territory of the Recipient.
(d)
Training and workshops for MSP staff on management, accounting, and 
financial topics, including study tours to learn about health sector reform experiences in other 
developing and developed countries.
SCHEDULE
3
Section I
:
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For 
complex time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
1
of
this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior 
Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single 
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator; or (d) amendments of contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
Section II
:
Special Provisions
In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants referred to in Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person, except in 
Page  10
connection with a joint venture arrangement where: 
(i)
a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants 
exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice;
(ii)
the contribution of either party to the joint venture arrangement will not 
be constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and
(iii)
the foreign consultant is not required to associate itself with any specific 
named domestic firms or individual consultants.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services, to be 
registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadoran firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees to the 
Ecuadoran Consultants' Association that are different from those required for Ecuadoran 
consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations
as consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in an agency of the Recipient or any 
Ecuadoran public sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any such 
office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section III
.
Internal Approvals
With respect to the procurement of consultants services required for the Technical 
Assistance, any approval of contracts or of consultant selection processes, required under the 
laws of the Recipient, need be given only by MSP.
Section IV
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods for which expenditures are incurred as incremental operating costs shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995.
SCHEDULE
4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the 
amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
Page  11
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph
4
of
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective 
Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
3
of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
Page  12
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the Eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Technical 
Assistance, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph
2
of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account
(or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
