                                                 Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                                   Report No:ICR0000205




                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                                (IBRD-43420)




                                                      ON A

                                                     LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45.0 MILLION


                                                        TO

                                    THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                                     FOR A

                       HEALTH SERVICES MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                              October 30, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                       Currency Unit = US$

                         FISCAL YEAR


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL               Adaptable Program Loan
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CONAM             National Modernization Council
DHCNs             Decentralized (Provincial/Municipal) Health Care
                  Networks
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FASBASE Project   II Social Development Project - Health and Nutrition
MODERSA           Health Services Modernization Project
MOH               Ministry of Health
NGOs              Nongovernmental Organizations
NPV               Net Present Value
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCU               Project Coordinating Unit
PDO               Project Development Objective
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
QAG               Quality Assurance Group




                  Vice President: Pamela Cox
                Country Director: Marcelo Giugale
                  Sector Director: Evangeline Javier
                 Sector Manager: Keith E. Hansen
                   Sector Leader: Daniel Cotlear
             Project Team Leader: Carlos Marcelo Bortman
               ICR Team Leader: Carlos Marcelo Bortman

                                             ECUADOR
               HEALTH SERVICES MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 10
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 10
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 15
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 16
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 18
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 23
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 23
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       HEALTH SERVICES
                                                                       MODERNIZATION
Country:                Ecuador                 Project Name:
                                                                       PROJECT
                                                                       (MODERSA)
Project ID:             P039084                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-43420
ICR Date:               10/31/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                       ECUADOR
Original Total
                        USD 45.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 43.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministerio de Salud Pública
Proyecto MODERSA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/04/1995    Effectiveness:         11/24/1998        11/24/1998
Appraisal:             04/06/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/09/1998    Mid-term Review:                         01/25/2002
                                     Closing:               12/31/2004        09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                10                10
Health                                                           90                90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                   Secondary        Secondary
Decentralization                                                Primary          Primary
Health system performance                                       Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary          Primary
Population and reproductive health                             Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:         Carlos Felipe Jaramillo            Andres R. Solimano
Sector Manager:           Keith E. Hansen                    Xavier E. Coll
Project Team Leader:      Carlos Marcelo Bortman             Carlos Marcelo Bortman
ICR Team Leader:          Carlos Marcelo Bortman
ICR Primary Author:       Jorge C. Barrientos



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed project is expected to contribute to the improvement of health status of the
poor in the medium term, particularly mothers and children under 5 years of age. The
overall objective is to assist in expanding access to, and improving the quality and the
efficiency of, ambulatory and hospital services, by developing new health care
organization, financing and managerial models in selected provinces and municipalities.


                                               ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To support health sector reform and development of the National Health System in order
to improve access for the poor to health services and increase equity, efficiency and
quality of services, with an emphasis on mothers and children, in selected provinces and
municipalities.

 PDO Indicator 1: Increase coverage of health services to 2 million people.

 Baseline value: Not available
 Original Target Values: 2 million people
 Actual Value Achieved at Completion or Target Years: 1.6 million people plus an
unquantifiable area of influence for hospitals in Quito and Guayaquil.
 Date Achieved: not available.

 Comments:
 This indicator was replaced at the time the PDO was reformulated in 2002. The new
indicator was defined as improving access, quality and efficiency of maternal-child
services in the project's intervention areas by 25%. By the end of 2004, maternal and
child care services had increased by 29% in the Decentralized Health Care Networks
(DHCNs) and hospitals involved, and hospitals had increased the provision of services in
surgery by 35% and in birth deliveries by 18%. However, the quality indicator of
maternal and child care in DHCNs, defined as the ratio between total number of visits to
the number of first visits, stagnated at about 3.2 during the period 2000-2004. On the
other hand in the household surveys "Ëncuesta de Condiciones de Vida", no difference
was found in the proportion of families reporting that they received health care during
their last health problem (77% in 1998 and 2004).

 PDO Indicator 2: In the medium term, in conjunction with FASBASE project (Loan
3510-EC, approved July 21, 1992), reduce maternal mortality by 50%.

 Baseline value: 160                       Date Achieved: 1988-1994
 Original Target Values: 80                  Date Achieved:2004
 Actual Value Achieved at Completion or Target Years: 107 (Reduction 33.1%)/Date
Achieved:1999-2004 (Endemain Survey)

 Comments:
 This indicator was replaced at the time the PDO was reformulated in 2002. See
comments under Indicator 1.

 PDO Indicator 3: In the medium term, in conjunction with FASBASE project, reduce
infant mortality and child mortality by 30%.

 Baseline value: Infant 27.6 and Child 33.7            Date achieved: 1997
 Original Target Values: Infant 19.3 and Child 23.6      Date achieved: 2004
 Actual Value Achieved at Completion or Target Years: Infant 18.1 (reduction 34.4%)
and child 24.0(reduction 28.8%). Date achieved: 2004


                                             iii

  Comments:
  This indicator was replaced at the time the PDO was reformulated in 2002. See
comments under indicator 1.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target        Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                              approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Design of an information and evaluation system for HR performance
Value
quantitative or Not available.                                              Completed.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1998                                                    12/16/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Design of an Information System for the Ley de Maternidad Gratuita.
Value
quantitative or Not available.                                              Completed.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1998                                                    12/16/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   10% increase in the maternal and infant health service delivery in the SDS de
                Tena, Ibarra and Cuenca
Value
quantitative or not available                                               100% completed.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1998                                                    12/23/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Implementation of Juntas directivas for hospital management.
Value
quantitative or Not available.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1998
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Signing of the Compromisos de Gestion in Cuenca, Tena, and Ibarra
Value
quantitative or Not available.                                              Completed.
Qualitative)



                                              iv

Date achieved 11/30/1998                                               12/16/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target    Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value         Values (from                    Achieved at
                                             approval        Revised    Completion or
                                           documents)     Target Values  Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Not specified at PAD preparation
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                      IP             Disbursements
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1     07/06/1998          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     12/21/1998          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  1.92
  3     03/09/1999          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  3.02
  4     09/17/1999          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  3.57
  5     04/19/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  4.03
  6     10/16/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  4.57
  7     12/19/2000         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 5.07
  8     06/22/2001         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 7.32
  9     12/18/2001         Unsatisfactory           Satisfactory                  8.64
  10    03/27/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 11.61
  11    06/25/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 12.12
  12    12/11/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 14.75
  13    06/12/2003         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                16.91
  14    10/21/2003         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                16.91
  15    04/12/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 19.10
  16    11/29/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 24.29
  17    04/26/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 27.88

  18    06/06/2005          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory                 29.48

  19    06/21/2005          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory                 29.48

  20    11/22/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 35.01


                                             v

  21  05/12/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           38.19
  22  06/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    40.03
  23  12/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    43.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

During the 90's, the Government had made considerable progress on restoring
macroeconomic stability and reducing inflation. Additionally, it had taken a number of
key steps for managing public resources (in excess of 20% of GDP) more efficiently in
order to foster economic growth. These measures included improving budget formulation
and execution processes, establishing a legal framework and an incentive base for public
entities to perform more efficiently, introducing a results-oriented management approach.
It had also expanded the decentralization process, enabling the transfer of authority and
resources to municipalities, particularly for the financing and delivery of health services.
By the time the project was approved, the Ecuadorian health system was facing
significant challenges. Infant, child and maternal mortality rates remained high compared
with most countries in the region.         The health profile was characterized by the
coexistence of infectious and communicable diseases and non-communicable conditions
and injuries. Diarrheal diseases and respiratory infections together were contributing to
more than half of infant and child mortality. In spite of improvements supported under
the Ecuador Social Development Project II Health-Nutrition (FASBASE) Project,
organizational and operational problems still continued to hinder health services delivery.
The health system was highly fragmented and management and technical weaknesses
constrained the implementation of programs and activities. In the public sector, key
management decisions were highly centralized at the MOH, hindering flexibility in
hospitals and ambulatory facilities and their accountability to local constituencies.
Access to basic health services was severely limited for about 30 percent of the
population and the poorest strata were spending a significant portion of their income on
health care, particularly in rural areas.

Building upon the decentralization efforts supported under the FASBASE Project, Bank
assistance aimed at improving the health status of poor and underserved population
groups by expanding coverage of health services at the provincial and municipal levels.
The project was consistent with established CAS objectives of reducing poverty and
improving the country's human capital base. It was also in line with the prevailing Bank
strategy for the health sector aimed at better outcomes of the poor through enhancing
performance of health systems and improving resource allocation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project was expected to contribute to the improvement of health status of the poor in
the medium term, particularly mothers and children under 5 years of age. The overall
objective is to assist in expanding access to, and improving the quality and the efficiency
of, ambulatory and hospital services, by developing new health care organization,
financing and managerial models in selected provinces and municipalities.

The project was in support of the Government's efforts to modernize management of the
health sector while expanding access and improving quality of services provided. Its


                                              1

conceptual design derived from the experience gained with the previous FASBASE. It
should be noted that there was an overlap in the implementation of both projects, since
FASBASE was extended through a supplemental loan.             Although FASBASE was
implemented successfully, the supplemental loan experienced difficulties in its execution
mainly due to the political instabilities throughout most of 2000. Its completion report
highlighted the need to continue support for strengthening and modernizing sector
management, but it also acknowledged the difficulties faced by the supplemental loan
deriving from the instability in managerial staff both in the Ministry of Health (MOH)
and in the implementation unit.

This PDO was well founded in the experience gained with the previous intervention in
the health sector and the Government's commitment, at the time of appraisal, of
enhancing the services provided to achieve an improvement of the health status of the
poor in the medium term, in selected regions of the country. Key indicators were linked
to achieving an increased coverage of health services in the project area, and to a
reduction in infant (under age one), child (under age five) and maternal mortality on a
national basis.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

During the mid-term review, the PDO was rephrased to sharpen its definition in terms of
linking it explicitly to a support to the health sector reform and development of the
National Health System. The new wording was also more explicit in focusing on
improving access for the poor to health services, with a specific emphasis on maternal
and child care. Key monitoring indicators related to the PDO were revised after the mid-
term review.    It was felt that indicators based on country wide averages were not
appropriate for an intervention limited to a few provinces and districts. They were
replaced by a new indicator defined in terms of improving access, quality and efficiency
in the provision of maternal and child care services, with respect to a baseline, in the
selected areas of intervention.    This revised indicator was clearly more suitable for
establishing the achievement of the PDO.

The Loan Agreement was amended, on April 9, 2002, including the revised definition of
the PDO and a new set of performance indicators not only for the outcome but also for
key outputs by component. At the time, it was considered that this amendment was
minor because it did not modify the substance of the PDO. It basically focused on
improving the definition of monitoring indicators. Consequently, it was approved at the
Country Director level.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The project aimed at improving access to, and the quality and the efficiency of, health
services at the provincial and municipal levels and for managing public hospitals as
semiautonomous referral centers. It also supported community involvement through
provincial and municipal health boards or councils, hospital committees and local
promotion and education activities contributing to sustainable gains in service relevance


                                             2

and quality. The potential beneficiary population was estimated at about 2 million or
about 20% of the total population in the country. The project initially supported
improvement of health services in 10 municipalities and 8 hospitals.              During
implementation, another 4 hospitals were added. After the mid-term review, activities
were focused in the Decentralized Health Systems (DHCN) in the municipalities of
Cuenca (pop. 277,000), Tena (pop. 51,600) and Ibarra (pop. 108,000). The project was
also engaged in modernizing 12 hospitals, including those in the same municipalities
mentioned above and in another 9 districts.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted originally of the following three components:

Part A.     Decentralized Health Systems Subprojects.            This component financed
subprojects, in selected provinces and municipalities ("cantones"), with the objective of
expanding coverage and improving quality and efficiency of health services with special
emphasis on targeting low-income and underserved population groups. It aimed at
reforming health care organizations, structuring them as networks (Decentralized Health
Care Networks ­ DHCN). The aim was to finance systems and provide health care
delivery on a decentralized basis, by supporting the establishment of Provincial and
Municipal Health Boards or Councils and Autonomous Health Entities. It also included a
pilot program for outsourcing the provision of primary health care services aimed at
increasing coverage.       Subprojects included the financing of: (i) rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure, equipment, medical supplies and staff training; (ii)
development of systems to modernize health care organizations and management
structures and practices; (iii) medical care providers using new contracting instruments,
procedures and payment mechanisms; (iv) information, education and communication
activities; and (v) monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of local experiences. This
component would be implemented on ten selected decentralized systems at the provincial
and municipal level. Two municipalities had been identified at appraisal (Tena and
Cuenca) and the rest were selected following agreed eligibility criteria.

Part B. Hospital Subprojects (Hospital Modernization). This component financed
the development of semi-autonomous managerial arrangements and technical assistance
for ten hospitals, with emphasis on planning and decision making, human resources,
financial and cost recovery systems and resource allocation.             It also financed
rehabilitation and upgrading of facilities and equipment and medical supplies. One
hospital had been identified at appraisal (Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra at Tena) and the rest
were selected using eligibility criteria developed for the project by the John Hopkins
University School of Public Health. Criteria were based on the assessment of managerial
capabilities, strategic planning, information systems, financial management, labor
relations, existing facilities and equipment and relations with the community.

Part C.     Policy Development, Human Resource Management, and Consensus
Building. Under this component the project financed: (i) technical assistance to develop
policies, laws and regulations to set forth the regulatory and monitoring role of MOH,
and to develop human resource policies and strategies, including amendments to laws and


                                              3

codes; and (ii) information, education and communication activities to achieve consensus
on health care reform.

1.6 Revised Components

Although the first two components (Parts A and B) were well in line with the
development objective, the PAD did not emphasize adequately the balance that was
needed between progress in efforts for radically changing the management approach to
health care and the timing of badly needed investments for rehabilitation of facilities and
replacement of equipment. This situation led to a revision of the original components
during the mid-term review.        It was proposed, at that time, to redefine project
components providing an increased focus on sector policies, and on commitments to
development of decentralized operation and modernization of hospital management
before approving going ahead with investments.

Part A was relabeled Decentralized Health Systems. It was refocused supporting the
development of DHCNs at the provincial and municipal levels, with an increased
emphasis on maternal and child care. It emphasized a closer link to the decentralization
policy for the health sector, stressing development of better financing and management
mechanisms for health services. Having local health councils established and operating,
decentralization agreements and participatory oversight mechanisms in place were now
required as preconditions for obtaining financing for investments.

Part B was renamed Hospital Modernization.             It supported modernization of ten
selected hospitals (two others were added later), operating under a new organization and
management model. This model included well defined quality and efficiency standards,
with systems for improving technical, administrative and financial management and
providing effective care. It also put higher priority to the provision of maternal and child
care and included the practice of periodically assessing beneficiary satisfaction. This
component also established criteria for evaluating progress in the implementation of new
management structures and processes before proceeding with investments for
rehabilitating infrastructure and equipment.

Part C was relabeled Human Resources and Policies. Now the emphasis was more
closely focused on supporting the creation of a legal framework for health sector reform,
strengthening governance and management of the MOH and promoting integral
development of human resources.

1.7 Other significant changes

The closing date was extended twice for a total of 21 months. Implementation required
some 28% additional time than originally anticipated.       US$2 million of loan proceeds
were cancelled in May 2006, at the time a last extension of the closing date for 3 months
was granted.     Additionally, unused loan funds for another US$0.415 million were
cancelled after the closing date. It should be noted that total borrower contributions to
project funding were only 51% of the amounts envisaged at appraisal.



                                             4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

There is no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rating for this project since there was no
routine quality assessment process established at the time of appraisal. The quality at
entry is rated moderately satisfactory. The project is considered well designed based on
the experience of the FASBASE project and the Bank knowledge of the needs of the
Ecuadorian health sector. For this same reason, lessons were taken into consideration
and risks were properly assessed.

However, some shortcomings were found in the link between the PDO and the
performance indicators originally chosen for establishing its achievement. Setting a set
of key performance indicators (reduction in infant, child and maternal mortality) on a
national basis was far reaching and not in line with improvements sought in coverage and
quality of services in selected provinces and municipalities. These indicators correspond
to a higher level objective to which the project could only contribute in the medium or
long term.    Eventually, these indicators were replaced during the mid-term review.
Furthermore, the original indicators also seem to have influenced the choice of key
variables used in the cost-benefit analysis. Two of these were the same (infant and
maternal mortality), and other variables included for assessing benefits were also chosen
on a national level. This approach was not in line with the more restricted sphere of
influence of the project, through the decentralization and hospital modernization
components in selected geographical areas of intervention.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation and the associated reform process, suffered several setbacks due
to a high turnover of ministers of health and project coordinators. Since most ministers
were not familiar with the project objectives, they usually sought to introduce some
policy changes that produced delays and confusion among project staff.             This was
compounded by political influence on appointments of key project staff which seriously
affected project implementation causing a continuous process of stop and go. This was
reflected in unsatisfactory ratings during certain periods, followed by others of
considerable improvements. Additionally, hospital directors, where the modernization
was taking place, were also frequently replaced, normally following changes of health
ministers.   Political influence in their appointment was also quite common.             The
extremely high turn over of personnel, in the MOH and the PCU, was the most important
factor that affected project implementation. It should be noted that the project had eleven
coordinators in nearly eight years of implementation. As mentioned earlier, this was the
major cause for ups and downs during project implementation. It also affected the way
the project unit interacted with MOH.           At times, project activities were closely
coordinated with MOH, while in other periods these were carried out independently
creating a lot of resent among MOH staff. There were also times when there was even
lack of interaction and coordination among project staff working in the three components.
This instability in staff was a source of conflicts that affected project implementation.



                                              5

The number of project staff varied considerably during the implementation period. It had
been agreed that the project team should be composed of about 30 persons. It started at
that level, but it had reached over 150 by 2002. This was clearly a consequence of
political interference with the project, which was viewed, at times, mostly as a source of
employment opportunities for political appointees.

During 2004, MOH introduced the selection of the coordinator and other key project staff
by a competitive process supported by the Bank. This worked quite well, but the selected
team members lasted only eight months in their posts and they were replaced by political
appointees following a change in minister of health.

Counterpart funds were frequently not allocated in sufficient amounts, creating delays in
project implementation, particularly during the first four years. In many cases, even
when budgetary allocations were made, transfers to project accounts were curtailed
during the fiscal year. This situation was most dramatic during 2001 when US$1.6
million of counterpart funds were requested by the project, US$250,000 were allocated in
the budget and only US$19,000 actually transferred to project accounts.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

It took a while to set up a M&E system in the project. The PAD had envisaged that
specific outputs and outcomes would be monitored regularly using a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation system. However, it was not until March 2001, two and a half
years after implementation had started, that a monitoring unit was organized.         An
indicator system was developed, determining baselines where appropriate, and
establishing processes for compilation and processing of information. By the mid-term
review (January 2002), the system was operating well and it had a meaningful input to
the revision of indicators agreed with the Bank.         The MODERSA project also
implemented an innovative system to measure performance of the DHCNs and progress
in implementing the new management systems. Unfortunately, due to frequent changes
in management, by 2005, the M&E system was not updated regularly and lost its
capability to monitor progress in project implementation. Before closing the project, the
PCU made a major effort to update information available in the system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Handling of hospital waste was the only environmental issue addressed by the project.
There were delays in incorporating protocols for waste management as an integral part of
the hospital modernization process. After the mid-term review, these were established
for the hospitals participating in the project.

Several procurement issues arose during the project life. In some cases, contracts were
stopped and, in others, suppliers complained about delays in payments or questioned
awards of bidding processes. In addition to the routine ex-ante and ex-post reviews, the
Bank procurement team conducted several special reviews including one procurement
audit. Some procedural problems were identified during these reviews and corrective
actions were requested, but no problem found was serious enough to declare


                                               6

misprocurement. One of the most complicated processes was the procurement of three
boats adapted to operate as mobile health services in rivers. In this case, the Procurement
Audit found some modifications to the Bidding Documents without informing the Bank,
modifications that limit the competition. Only two suppliers put forward bids, and one of
them was disqualified because the proposal did not meet the required technical
specifications. The bid was awarded to the only bidder left, with a Bank no objection,
but at the price requested which was higher than the official estimate. This raised
suspicions of overpricing which resulted in complaints. Eventually, the contract was
financed partially with resources from the Bank loan.

There were frequent delays in preparing the auditing reports. Some project coordinators
were not familiar with procedures and deadlines. For the same reason, contracting an
auditing firm was delayed on several occasions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Although the overall results fell a bit short of expectations at the time the project was
appraised, some key project achievements are important for the future development of the
Ecuadorian health sector. The new health law and the institutional set up introduced
provide a firm ground for sustaining the reform process. They have also provided a solid
base for grounding the universal coverage scheme supported by the Bank. However, the
reforms in the MOH were not deep enough for rooting the cultural change implicit in the
institutional transformation from a hierarchical to a process based approach. Additional
efforts, and a strong political support within MOH, will be required to enable a more
permanent and sustainable change in line with the new role for the ministry. At the micro
level, decentralized systems and hospitals, about one half of the areas of intervention are
expected to sustain and consolidate the reform process. Dissemination of the reforms,
extensive training of staff and other actions implemented by the project, such as
strengthening of management teams and information systems, also provide a firm basis
for sustaining reforms. It is also considered that other areas of intervention will need
additional support to make progress in improving their management and quality of
services provided.

Although the MOH has not fully availed itself of all the opportunities for preparing for its
new role, it does have an institutional base that provides sufficient elements for
consolidating the reform process. In addition to the strong political support mentioned
earlier, MOH will need further support from the Bank and the international community to
strengthen its capability to sustain the reform process including decentralized health
systems and the modernization process of hospital management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives remain consistent with Ecuador's current priorities in the health
sector. Modernizing sector management, while expanding access and improving quality



                                            7

of services provided by the DHCNs and hospitals, are part of current government policies
as defined by the National Health Council. Legislation amended during the project has
enabled a better policy making at the central level, while the need to expand
decentralized responsibilities for health care decision making remains a government
priority. In summary, the project objectives continue to be relevant at present.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO was rephrased in line with the restructuring of components following the mid-
term review. Its definition was basically sharpened to link it more explicitly to the health
sector reform that was being implemented and supported by the project.                  The
achievement of the PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory. The project is expected to
achieve, with some limitations, its major relevant development objective aimed at
improving access of the poorer segments of the population, in the areas of intervention, to
quality health services. There are, however, areas of intervention where progress was
uneven. Improvement in access was substantially achieved in four areas (Tena, Cuenca,
Cotacachi and Ibarra) and only partially in the rest. These improvements were also
consistent with the degree of implementation of the new health care organization
approach that the project sponsored. By the end of the project, none of the provinces and
municipalities had reached full implementation of the organizational structures and
processes that were originally envisaged. Specific achievements for both the original and
the revised performance indicators are presented in Annexes 1 and 4. The latter also
reviews outcomes by components.

As discussed in section 1.3, the indicators used to measure the key project outcome were
revised and replaced by ones better suited for the purpose. It should be noted that after
the 2002 revision, all the emphasis of the implementing agency, and of Bank supervision
missions, was on the revised indicators. Originally, outcome was to be measured by
increased coverage of health services in the areas of intervention (reaching 2 million
persons by 2004) and by a reduction of infant and child mortality by 30%, and of
maternal mortality by 50%, on a national basis. It can be estimated that coverage of
DHCNs and hospitals included in the project, reached about 1.6 million persons by 2004
(based on the 2001 census). This estimate excluded population from the two largest
cities (Quito and Guayaquil) where it is not possible to establish clearly the population
covered by hospitals.      Consequently, it is considered that the target established at
appraisal was substantially met. Infant mortality improved from 27.6 per 1,000 live
births in 1997 to 18.1 in 2004, representing a reduction of 34.4%. Child mortality (under
5) was reduced by 28.8%, from 33.7 per 1,000 live births in 1997 to 24.0 in 2004.
According to the Endemain survey, conducted every five years, maternal mortality (per
100,000 live births) improved from an average of 159 for the period 1988-1994 to 107 for
the period 1999-2004, representing a reduction of 33%. It should be noted that many
factors in addition to the Project might have contributed to these improvements.

As noted earlier in 1.2, the key outcome was redefined as achieving a 25% improvement
in access to maternal and child care services and in quality and efficiency, compared with
a baseline, in the project intervention areas. Based on the latest information available, the



                                              8

overall outcome was substantially achieved. It should be noted that coverage of maternal
and child care was used as a proxy to determine access. Maternal and child care services
provided by the nine DHCNs and eight hospitals included in the baseline (2000) had
increased by 29% by 2004. However, the quality indicator of maternal care in DHCNs,
defined as the total number of prenatal controls, did not show any improvement, staying
at about 3.2 during the period 2000-2004.        On the other hand, the eight hospitals
increased the provision of services in surgery by 35% and in birth deliveries by 18%.

There were also other outputs, under component C, that are considered relevant for
assessing achievement of the PDO. These are the policy reforms introduced under the
project including the redefinition of roles of the National Health Council and the MOH,
constitutional reform approved, increased democratic participation in policy formulation
(two national congresses held), new organic law for the National Health System, and the
new management system for the Free Maternity Services law operating in eighty
municipalities.

3.3 Efficiency

For the reasons given in 2.1 above, the ex-post cost-benefit analysis was done using a
similar methodology to the one adopted for the PAD, but restricting its application only
to the areas affected by the project. The key variables in the benefit streams continued to
be the reduction in infant and maternal mortality. But these streams were now estimated
only for the areas of intervention as opposed to the country-wide averages used in the
PAD. The NPV of the actual cost and benefit redefined streams, including only a
projection for the next 7 years, shows a positive value of US$110.3 million. (the
methodology and detailed calculations are shown in Annex 5).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory on the basis of the
foregoing results on its relevance, level of achievement of the objectives, and efficiency.
In this regard, the Project continues to be relevant to current government priorities of the
health sector.

In terms of efficiency, the Project showed a positive benefit for the stream of costs and
benefits adjusted for the present and expected outcome in the areas of intervention.

This rating is also supported by the achievement of outcome, measured both with the
original and the revised indicators. Moreover, key policy reforms prepared under the
project had a meaningful role in enabling improvements in the sector. Specific output
targets agreed by the mid-term review were fully achieved in three out of four areas.
Some shortcomings were that management agreements became fully adopted only by two
out of twelve hospitals included in the project.        Additionally, a pilot program for
expanding the provision of health care services with private providers failed and was
discontinued.


                                             9

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
There are no additional poverty impacts, gender aspects or social development issue not
previously covered.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project's institutional development impact is considered modest. Ups and downs in
project implementation, due to the extremely high turn over of its management as well as
of ministers and managers at the MOH, led to an unstable and changing relationship
between the project and the ministry. This situation did not enable a meaningful and
constructive influence of the project for achieving a sustainable transformation in MOH's
management structure. The project did, however, contribute to important progress in
promoting an ample national debate on key aspects of health policy reform and raising
awareness about key issues. Two national congresses were organized for discussing the
reforms which were well attended and made contributions to the process of implementing
them.    As noted earlier, the project left behind some progress in modernizing the
management of decentralized health systems and hospitals. A few of them achieved
major transformations and they are expected to play a demonstration effect for the rest of
the sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

This assessment is based on the likelihood that changes may occur that could be
detrimental to the achievement of the development outcome on a sustained basis. On the
one hand, most changes related to expanding access and improving quality has been
adopted by the DHCNs and hospitals that participated in the project. Additionally, good
progress was made in improving the legal framework for the sector. The risks continue
to be originated by the political instability that has prevailed in Ecuador in the last few
years.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                             10

The Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was well founded on the
experience of an ongoing project (FASBASE). However, as noted earlier, it had some
shortcomings in the selection of performance indicators for the PDO based on nation
wide parameters for a project with limited geographical coverage. Additionally, some of
these indicators influenced the selection of some key variables for estimating benefits in
the economic analysis.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Perhaps, during the initial years, supervision was somewhat overconfident with the
managerial capabilities of MOH and the implementing agency. But political instabilities
and continuous changes of health ministers and project coordinators seriously affected, at
times, project implementation.       Revisions made at the mid-term review were very
adequate for revitalizing the project with sharper definitions for objectives and defining
results that were achievable during project implementation. During the last few years,
Bank staff needed a higher degree of involvement and supervision effort which was
critical for maintaining the project on course and to provide continuity. Due to the
political instabilities that occurred in Ecuador during most of the implementation period,
the Bank was called to play a key role trying to keep continuity of policies and helping to
maintain implementation on track.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

On the basis of the performance stated in the above paragraphs, the Bank's overall
performance was rated moderately satisfactory. Project preparation was conducted on the
basis of close involvement of the MOH, which resulted in a well identified project.
However, there were some shortcomings on the definition of monitoring indicators for
the PDO and key variables for the cost-benefit analysis. Supervision had to play a
delicate role to cope with the continuous changes in ministers and project coordinators.
Generally, it performed well the difficult task of maintaining continuity of actions in a
complex political environment. It also played a critical role during the mid-term review
for making adjustments to the project and providing guidance for strengthening its
management.
Day to day supervision during final years and linking with Programmatic and Health
Insurance projects, and the Free Maternal Law "Ley de Maternidad Gratuita" provided
some protection to an otherwise volatile environment.




                                             11

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Initially, MOH was fully engaged in preparation activities mainly due to the close link
with the ongoing FASBASE project. As a consequence, it became deeply involved in all
aspects of the design work.
Financial constraints did not enable an adequate flow of counterpart funds that led to
delays in project implementation. Additionally, frequent changes in ministers and key
managerial positions at the MOH provided uneven support for a complex reform process.
Those areas more advanced with decentralization of primary health care and hospital
modernization are not yet fully operating to the extent originally envisaged. This is
mainly because of shortcomings in the implementation of the revised budgetary processes
that would grant autonomy for handling and allocating resources on a decentralized basis.
However, important reforms were implemented most notably the approval of the National
Health System law and the establishment of the National Health Council providing a
stronger legal framework to the health sector.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Ministerio de Salud Publica       Moderately Satisfactory
Proyecto MODERSA                  Moderately Satisfactory


Frequent changes of project coordinator were the key cause for a mixed performance of
the Implementation Agency. Management was quite positive and efficient at times with
good progress in implementation. But this was interchanged with other periods of poor
performance mainly due to little understanding of the project and lack of coordination
with MOH. This was particularly acute by mid 2001 and mid 2005 when the project's
achievement of its DO was rated unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The high number of changes in ministers and project coordinators that occurred during
implementation led to a mixed overall borrower performance. This was satisfactory at
times followed by periods of low performance and high political influence in
appointments of key staff. Important achievements were made on the policy, institutional
strengthening and decentralization side. However, changes in management systems of
the DHCNs and hospitals were only partially achieved in most districts and hospitals.




                                             12

6. Lessons Learned

A phased approach with well designed benchmarks may be more suitable for
supporting a reform process at the micro level. This project aimed at supporting a
reform process in the health sector both at the macro level ­ regulatory framework ­ and
the micro level ­ decentralized services and semi-autonomous hospitals. Most of the key
reforms at the macro level were implemented successfully. However, carrying out a
reform process at the micro level needs a strong political commitment from all actors
involved, both at the central as well as at the local level. Managing such a process,
simultaneously in many fronts and during a period of several years, may take longer than
a typical timeframe allowed for implementing investment projects. It appears that other
instruments, such as an APL may be more suitable for supporting this type of processes
than the traditional investment lending.

Reform processes at the micro level need strong political support both at the national
as well as at the local level. It became quite apparent that those municipalities and
hospitals that were successful in implementing the decentralization and modernization
processes, respectively, had a strong political support at the local level. The success
stories (Tena and Cotacachi) show that adequate alliances with key stakeholders are
instrumental for creating an enabling environment that is vital for consolidating the
reforms.

It is not advisable to condition resources for badly needed rehabilitations in hospitals to
commitments to a modernization process. The project tried to introduce the practice of
conditioning investments in hospitals to their management commitment to establish
management boards and implement new management systems. In practice, this approach
did not work as expected.        The main reason was that most hospitals were quite
deteriorated and needed urgent rehabilitations in critical areas to enable them to continue
to provide certain services. It is not possible to defer badly needed investments because
stakeholders in the hospital have been slow to make progress in implementing new
management systems. Particularly, implementation of participative boards proved to be
more difficult than anticipated because it was not always possible to mobilize a relatively
high number of stakeholders coming from many different spheres of influence.

Involving private operators in the provision of primary health care services need
clearly defined roles and well identified groups of beneficiaries. A pilot program was
launched, early during project implementation, aimed at expanding primary health care
services in rural areas with NGOs. The program faced severe difficulties and it was
abandoned. The main reasons varied from overlapping territories with existing services
provided by the public sector, to lack of adequately trained staff. Another key factor was
the lack of central government political support and commitment to provide the financial
resources on a permanent basis, beyond the period supported by the project. Workers
union also opposed the approach which was viewed as a step for privatizing the provision
of health care services.




                                            13

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

None

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                           14

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

DECENTRALIZED HEALTH
SYSTEMS SUBPROJECTS                      40.60              17.87              44

HOSPITAL MODERNIZATION
SUBPROJECTS                              18.30              22.82             125

POLICY DEVELOPMENT,
HUMAN RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT, AND                           2.20                4.87            221

CONSENSUS BUILDING
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                    2.10                4.57            218


            Total Baseline Cost          63.20               50.13             79

Physical Contingencies                    0.00                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         63.20                0.00
Project Preparation Fund                  1.80                1.85            1.03
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                0.00            0.00
      Total Financing Required           65.00               51.98             80




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          20.00         10.13       51

International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   45.00         42.585      93




                                            15

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                     Original ­ PAD                   Revised ­ Mid Term Review

Decentralized Health  Complete implementation      2 substantial
Systems               of 10 DHCNs                  9 partial      Access to maternal-      Services provided
Improve quality and                                               child services increased in 9 DHCNs
efficiency of health  Performance Agreements       none           by at least 25% over the Baseline 72100
services in selected  with providers for           Pilot failed   baseline in the 11       2004      90800
provinces and         delivering essential health                 systems selected         Increase 25.9%
municipalities.       services to DHCN
                      affiliates
                                                                  Health decentralization  Achieved
                      Resource allocation to       None           model implemented
                      providers, MIS developed     Pilot failed   through decentralization
                      for DHCNs, and staff                        agreements with the
                      trained.                                    municipalities of
                                                                  Cuenca, Tena and
                      80% of affiliated pregnant   Partially met  Ibarra
                      women with 4 prenatal        Average 3.2                             Achieved
                      visits before delivery       visits         Health Councils in Tena
                                                                  and Ibarra planning,
                      90% of affiliated pregnant   No data        administering and
                      women delivered in                          evaluating health
                      network facilities                          actions in their areas

                      95% of affiliated children   No data
                      with complete
                      immunizations

                      Clinical standards met in    No data
                      basic health care package

                      Quality assurance systems    No data
                      implemented in DHCNs

                      User satisfaction with       No data
                      accessibility and quality of
                      DHCN services                                                        Achieved
                                                                  Social oversight
                      Community members                           committees surveying
                      represented in local health                 actions by the Health
                      entities and DHCN boards     2 fully        Councils of Cuenca,
                                                   9 partially    Tena and Ibarra




                                                    16

                                     Original ­ PAD                      Revised ­ Mid Term Review
Hospital               Complete implementation                       Social Participation
Modernization          of management model in 8     2 fully          Committees established    3 fully
Hospital               hospitals, including:        7 partial        and functioning in 8      3 partial
modernization of      · Management committees                        hospitals
selected hospitals    · Institutional diagnosis
operating under a new · Vision, mission, goals                       For the Tena and
organization and        and strategy discussed                       Cuenca hospitals:
management model,       and accepted                                · Hospital production
according priority to · Institutional reform                          and efficiency           Achieved
mothers and children    proposal approved                             indicators improved by
                      · New financial, human                          15% over the baseline
                        resources and supplies                      · New administrative,
                        management tools                              financial and technical
                      · Investment plans                              procedures developed     80% progress
                                                                      and in execution
                                                                    · At least 70% of users
                                                                      express satisfaction     Tena    67%
                                                                      with care received       Cuenca 66%
                                     Original ­ PAD                      Revised ­ Mid Term Review
Human resources and    National Health Council      Achieved         Government health
policies               role and authority defined                    policies contained in the Achieved
Support creation of a                                                government plan that
policy and legal       Democratic participation     Achieved (2      comes into effect in
framework for health   of other sectoral and social national         January 2003
sector reform;         actors defined               congresses held)
strengthening                                                        The draft organic law
governance and         Constitutional Reforms       Achieved         for the National Health   Achieved
management in the      approved and enacted                          System presented to the
MPH.                                                                 National Congress
                       MOH roles redefined as       Achieved
                       policy maker, norms                           New operating structure
                       setter, regulator, evaluator                  for MOH                   Achieved

                       MOH reorganization           Achieved         Information and
                       proposed                                      management system for
                                                                     the Free Maternity        80% progress
                       Amendments to existing       Partially        Services Law in effect
                       laws and policy proposals    achieved         and operating in 80
                       on alternatives to new                        municipalities
                       human resources
                       management                                    Human resource
                                                                     information and           90% progress
                       Recommendations on                            performance evaluation
                       university education         No information   system operating in
                       reforms for health careers                    MOH and 200 persons
                                                                     trained in governance
                       Curriculum reform                             and management
                       proposed and adopted in      No information
                       medical and nursing
                       schools

                       Information,
                       communication and
                       education plan developed     No information

                       National and regional
                       seminars conducted           No information




                                                     17

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

                           Summary of Cost ­ Benefit Analysis

This section presents the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the MODERSA
Project, based upon the project costs and the measurable economic benefits flowing from
the performance of the principal indicators. The costs considered in the analysis include
the actual expenditures of the Bank project, and the Government counterpart funds and
maternal and child health care program. The following tables summarize the results and
establish comparisons with the original PAD estimates.

The cost-benefit analysis of the MODERSA Project take into account the following
benefits: (i) direct economic benefits of a reduction in hospital discharges resulting from
reductions in morbidity; (ii) direct benefits from reduced absenteeism due to reductions in
unnecessary hospitalization; and (iii) indirect benefits resulting from reductions in infant
and maternal mortality, which increase the productive life years through improved access
to and quality of infant and maternal health care services.

Unlike Annex 5 of the PAD, the benefits deriving from a reduction in emergency room
visits, and total hospital bed days, the latter as a consequence of better quality surgery
programs at the level of ambulatory interventions, were not taken into consideration,
given lack of sufficient data at provincial levels. Table No 1 shows the actual results as
compared with the estimated figures. Obviously, the sizeable difference found in infant
mortality and the reduced number of hospitalizations (number of bed/day use per person)
could be explained by the great difference levels between the average wage and rates
captured in 1997 in sucres, and those after the dollarization process of the economy took
effect in 2000.




                                              18

                                  Table 1. Summary of Benefits
                                          Net Present Value
                                                                                 Total
                                           Total Potential      Total Real     Potential
        Type of Benefits                   Benefits (PAD)       Benefits (1)   Benefits
                                                                  7 years
                                               5 years         (1998-2004)     10 years

        Reduction of Nbr. of
        hospitalizations                         0.2               -4.3           0.5
        Strengthened ambulatory
        surgery programs                         0.4                n/a           0.9
        Lowered rate of
        unnecessary emergency
        room service                             0.8                n/a           2.1

        Lowered absenteeism from
        reduced hospitalizations
                                                 0.3               -0.6           0.7
        Reduction in infant
        mortality                               24.1               257.1         87.4
        Reduction in maternal
        mortality                                 1                -0.02          3.6
        Source of Database: MoH, Central Bank



Table No 2 uses the data compiled after 7 years of project implementation and projected
at 12 percent discount rate for 2004 values, and shows the NPV of the total benefits
(direct and indirect), together accounting for US$110.3 million in 2004 constant dollars,
while the baseline scenario estimated this indicator at US$ 43.4 million dollars. The
corresponding IRR is 67 percent, in contrast with 36 percent in the baseline scenario: this
figure reflects the effect of the difference between preventable deaths estimates (4,200)
and registered (7,182).

                                               Table 2
                                   Based on          Estimated         Lowest
                                   observed          baseline          estimated
              Financial rates      data (1)          scenario          scenario
              Total NPV                     110.29              43.40          0.075
                                              12%
              IRR                             67%                36%             1%
              (1) The benefits values for 2005 have been forecasted

Some clarifications and assumptions:

1. Calculations were based on: i) the specific area of intervention of the project as
opposed to the national estimate for that indicator. This methodology was used to reflect
as closely as possible the real benefit values of the project.



                                                  19

2. A better performance of the indicators of direct benefits evaluated could be obtained
in the medium and long term with accumulated returns from total investments.

Regarding implementation costs, the analysis took into consideration the investment costs
of the World Bank project, the investment and recurrent costs incurred as a result of
extended coverage of a program of essential health services through the existing network
of public and marginally private providers (mostly the Ley de Maternidad Gratuita or
LMG). In this respect, we used fixed and variable costs necessary to sustain an increased
coverage of basic services, such as immunizations and prenatal care, as part of the LMG
from 1999 onward.

A total of 7,184 gained healthy lives was achieved during this 1998-2004 period, as a
result of an average of 28 % reduction in infant mortality (7,220), and an average of
20% increase in maternal mortality (39 more deaths). The reduction in infant mortality
has been observed during the project implementation years 1998-2004. The level of
increase in maternal mortality is inversely related to the 25.2 % estimate of reduced
mortality which was based on historical trends in Ecuador, international literature on
cost-effectiveness, and Ecuadorian experts' opinions.

The discounted life years saved attributable to these reductions are then converted into
monetary terms by using estimates of the discounted life time earnings lost from each
death, as reflected by the use of average wage levels, by age, and the number of years of
life lost for each death.

Cost-Effectiveness

The total discounted life years potentially saved through the life of the project are
88.718 discounted life years. The average cost per discounted life year is US$1,400
(almost double the estimate of US$711) and it is over the standards established in the
1993 World Bank's World Development Report.

Fiscal Impact

Calculations of the project sustainability are based on an analysis of the recurrent costs of
the project, plus the annual maintenance costs and the extended coverage of the
integrated health care model to the uncovered population in the project's regions
(proportion of LMG program). The results of the comparison between the estimates and
the observed figures are summarized in the following table that shows evidence of a
favorable macroeconomic and base health sector

Table 3 shows that the real annual government and health care spending increased more
than expected after the year 2000, whereas before that, the estimates were larger than the
actual, as a consequence of the 1998-1999 financial crisis when there was a decrease of 7
percent in the real GDP. After the 2000 dollarization process, the GDP has been growing
at a rate of over 4 %, and social spending has experienced an increase near 40% from
1998 until 2005.



                                             20

Table 3: Summary of Fiscal Impact and Project Sustainability
                                              0            1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8
Base scenario                               97            98       99      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005


Spending MoH/GDP Observed                  1.09     0.79      0.72      0.65      0.90      1.10      1.22      1.22      1.20


Spendig MoH/GDP estimated                           1.10      1.10      1.09      1.08      1.07      1.02      1.02      1.02
Spending MoH/Total Gov spending
observed                                   5.44     3.50      2.70      2.40      3.30      4.88      4.85      5.07      5.72
Spendig MoH/Total Gov spending
estimated                                           6.47      7.09      6.80      6.54      6.28      5.99      5.99      5.99
Cost of Project GoE/Spending MoH (
observed)                                               0.01      0.01     0.01      0.02      0.02       0.01      0.02      0.03
Cost of Project GoE/Spending MoH (
estimated)                                              0.36      0.84     1.71      2.28        1.8      2.89      2.89      2.89
Cost of Project GoE/Total Gov
Spending (observed)                                     0.04      0.02     0.04      0.06      0.13       0.07      0.12      0.17
Cost of Project GoE/Total Gov
Spending (estimated)                                    0.02      0.06     0.12      0.15      0.11       0.17      0.17      0.17


Cost of Project GoE/GDP (observed)                      0.01      0.01     0.01      0.02      0.03       0.02      0.03      0.04


Cost of Project GoE/GDP (estimated)                     0.00      0.01     0.02      0.02      0.02       0.03      0.03      0.03


Total Cost of Project GoE/Spending
MoH (observed)                                          1.17      1.11     2.31      3.12      3.69       3.86      4.86      5.08
Total Cost of Project GoE/Spending


MoH (estimated)                                         1.44      2.95     6.17      7.85      6.28       2.89      2.89      2.89

Total Cost of Project GoE/Total Gov
Spending ( observed)                                   0.080     0.067     0.128     0.182     0.328     0.279     0.355     0.388

Total Cost of Project GoE/Total Gov
Spending ( estimated)                                  0.090     0.210     0.420     0.510     0.340     0.170     0.170     0.170
Total Cost of Project GoE/GDP
(observed)                                             0.018     0.018     0.035     0.049     0.074     0.069     0.082     0.093

Total Cost of Project GoE/GDP
(estimated)                                            0.020     0.030     0.070     0.030     0.070     0.030     0.070     0.030
Source: STFS, MEF and BCE




In conclusion, under this favorable macroeconomic and health sector spending
environment, the cost of project has been fully absorbed into the national budget and has
had no affect on fiscal policy sustainability, but it is important to highlight that all of
these costs were assumed only by the central government contrary to the original
expectation that local governments would share in the burden.




                                                                   21

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Que P. Bui               Procurement Asst.                  LCSHH
Daniel Dulitzky          Senior Economist                   ECSHD
Nelson Gutierrez         E T Consultant                   LCSHS-DPT
Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto  Financial Management Analyst       LCSFM
Fernando Leonfanti       Consultant                         LCSHH
Marcelo Amador Osorio    Consultant                         LCSPT
Morag N. Van Praag       Senior Finance Officer             LOAG1



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                                46.36
  FY96                                                               104.49
  FY97                                                                41.32
  FY98                                                                86.94
                        Total:                                       279.76
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                72.83
  FY00                                      24                        70.05
  FY01                                      23                        65.17
  FY02                                      32                       106.71
  FY03                                      28                       127.35
  FY04                                      12                        68.22
  FY05                                      13                        79.37
  FY06                                      11                        66.89
  FY07                                       7                        26.63
                        Total:            150                        683.22




                                        22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower did not send a Completion Report or any comments to the ICR.




Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                        23

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


       Ministerio de Salud Pública, Informe de Cierre Proyecto MODERSA, May 2006.

       Ministerio de Salud Pública, Informe Financiero Proyecto MODERSA, March 2005.

       Ministerio de Salud Pública/OPS Marco General de la Reforma Estructural de la
Salud en el Ecuador, Consejo Nacional de Salud, Indicadores Básicos de Salud, Ecuador
2005, October 2002

       Ministerio de Salud Pública, Metodología para la calificación del Proceso de
Licenciamiento en Salud, 2004.




                                          24

