Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2289 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%);General education 
sector (20%);Health (20%);General industry and trade sector 
(15%);Agricultural marketing and trade (15%) 
Project ID 
P099166 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 28, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 7, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 28, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Moldova’s key development objectives are outlined in the 2004-2006 Economic Growth and Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (EGPRSP). The EGPRSP establishes three medium-term objectives: sustainable and 
inclusive economic growth; reduction of poverty and inequality and increased participation of the poor in 
economic development; and human resource development.  The European Union-Moldova Action Plan, signed 
February 2005, provides a platform consistent with the EGPRSP for advancing a broad agenda of measures 
designed to improve Moldova’s long-run growth prospects.   The EGPRSP and Moldova’s newfound European 
aspirations have provided much-needed impetus to the Government’s stabilization and reform efforts. 
 
A
prolonged recession through the 1990s made Moldova the poorest country in Europe with per capita 
income of US$766 (2004).  Moldova’s social indicators, a measure of non-income dimensions of poverty, were 
also considered among the worst in the region.  While the recent economic recovery has led to a massive 
movement out of income poverty, over a third of Moldova’s population remains poor and poverty reduction has 
since stalled.   Moldova’s strong growth performance over the past five years has been largely driven by 
consumption and housing construction, underpinned by massive inflows of worker’s, remittance.   Given low 
levels of domestic investment and emerging labor shortages in some sectors, there are signs that the current 
growth model is reaching its limits.   The key objective of the EGPRSP and EU-Moldova Action Plan is to create 
the conditions for durable, private sector-led, pro-poor growth, taking advantage of Moldova’s favorable location 
and strong inflow of remittances from abroad. 
 
The Government’s own Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) indicates a large portion (over 
two-thirds) of the financing needed to implement the EGPRSP remains unidentified.  By providing additional 
financing, the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) will enable the Government to normalize relations with 
external donors and help generate the needed fiscal space to implement a greater portion of the EGPRSP action 
plan, while at the same time clarifying the role of government in the economy and thus advancing the transition 
process.  By focusing the PRSC on the critical constraints to economic growth and poverty reduction, as identified 
in recent Bank Group analytical work and elsewhere, the PRSC will help the Government prioritize among its 
many policy actions contained in the EGPRSP and EU-Moldova Action Plan.   
 
2. Proposed 
Objectives 
 
The proposed PRSC I, the first in a set of three annual PRSCs, embarks on a three year framework to 
support the recent intensification of the Government’s reform efforts and is intended to bolster and deepen those 
efforts. More specifically, the proposed credit aims to enhance the Government’s ability to accelerating economic 
Page  2
growth and improve the efficiency of its social programs and public administration 
–
key elements in poverty 
reduction. To this end, the proposed PRSC will support selective areas of the Government’s reform agenda, as 
outlined in the EGPRSP and EU-Moldova Action Plan, thereby complementing and reinforcing other Bank Group 
programs in Moldova, the IMF-supported PRGF and other donor activities.   
 
3. Preliminary 
Description 
 
Closely aligned with Country Assistance Strategy, the PRSC will support the objectives of the EGPRSP 
and EU-Moldova Action Plan: 
 
·
Improving the Investment Climate
.
Moldova is entering a new phase in its economic development where 
consumption driven growth – based on the export of labor and inflow of remittances – can no longer be 
expected to sustain current growth rates over the medium term.   Sustaining and accelerating future growth 
and poverty reduction in Moldova will depend on increases in domestic productivity.  Achieving faster 
productivity growth, as well as employment generation, will depend on the extent to which firms and farms 
address the current low levels of investment and innovation.  The Government’s agenda focuses on improving 
further improving the investment climate for private sector development. 
 
·
Improving the Efficiency and Management of Public Resources.
 
Better governance and institutions are 
central to growth and poverty reduction.  The EGPRSP and EU Action Plan are conscious of the constraint 
imposed by the insufficient functional and institutional adaptation of the public administration to the 
requirements set by the transition from a central planned economy to a market economy.  The EGPRSP and 
EU Action Plan recognize that establishing a modern and efficient public administration is necessary in order 
to achieve the country’s longer-term development outcomes.   Increasing the efficiency of public expenditures 
will be critical if the government is to increase public investment from its current low levels. 
 
·
Strengthening Pension and Social Assistance Systems.  
The Government’s program to improve delivery of 
utility, infrastructure and social services is reflected in the EGPRSP. The PRSC, together with IDA’s 
investment projects and donor assistance, would support strengthening the effectiveness and future fiscal 
viability of pension and social assistance programs.     
 
4. Tentative
 financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
5. Contact
 point 
Contact: Lawrence Bouton 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-9158 
Fax: 
(202) 522-2751
 
Email: lbouton@worldbank.org
 
