RETURN  TO                                                            RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK                          FILE COPY                             Report No. PA-132a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized orpnizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
BRAZIL
June 20, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -  Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                 e  Cr$ 5.50 (December 1971)
Present Exchange Rate - US$1 - Cr$ 5.8
Cr$ 1                =  US$0.18
Cr$ 1 million        -  US$181,818
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGITS AND MEASURES: Netric
NETRIC: BRITISH/US EQUIVALENT
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2) =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            m  2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  0.98 lg ton
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  1.1 US short ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACAR      -  Regional Extension Service
BNB       -  Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
CIBRAZEM  -  National Warehousing Company
COLONE    -  Companhia do Colonizacao do Nordeste
DERMA     -  Road Construction and Maintenance Agency of Maranhao State
INCRA     -  Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization
IPEAN     -  Agricultural Research Institute of the North
SDS       -  Agricultural Development Service of Maranhao State
SUDENE    -  Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast



BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLENENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ANiD CONCLUSIONS ................................ i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................    1
II.   BACKGROUND ...........................................    1
A.   General .........................................    1
B.   The Northeast and Amazon Regions ....         ............    2
C.   History of Settlement ...........................    2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .....................................    3
A.   Physical Features ...............................    3
B.   Institutions ....................................    4
C.   Settlement and Land Use .........................    4
IV.   THE PROJECT         ...............................              5
A.   General ...........       ..............................    5
B.   Detailed Features ...............................    6
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ..........................   10
A.   Project Costs ....................................   10
B. Proposed Financing                    .         .           11
C. Procurement                       ..                        14
D. Disbursement                       ..                       14
E. Accounts and Audit                    .         .           14
F.   Credit ...........................................   15
II.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGENE'NT ...........................   16
A.   Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste ...........      .   16
B. Mlanaged Cooperatives                  .         .          17
C. Logging and Milling                    .         .          17
D.  14anagement-Post Development Period           .     .      17
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. A. Storrar, J. Andreu, P. Gyamfi, R. Batt (Consultant) and
D. Evans (Consultant) which visited Brazil in October/November 1971.



-2-
Page No.
VII.   YTF'')Sc, PRODUCTION,  APRKETS, PRICES kND FINANCIAL
PR-'LTS.. .....................................  18
A.   Yields and Production .............................  18
B. ^'arkets and Prices ................................  18
C.   Settlers' Financial Results .......................  19
D.   Financial Results of Logging, and Milling
Operations ......................................  20
E.   Financial Results to Government ...................  20
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................  21
IX.   RECOW1ENDATIONS ........................................  22
ANNEXES
1.   Institutions Involved with the Project
Table 1:  BNB's Condensed Balance Sheets
Table 2: BNB's Summarized Income and Expenditure Statement
Table 3:  BNB's Interest Rates and Other Charges on Agricultural
Loans
Table 4: BNB3's Repayment terms for various Lines of Agricultural
Credit
2.   Agriculture in the Project Area
Table: Herd Development 'Iodel
3.   Roads
4.   Credit
5.   Forestry
6.   Schools and nealth Centers
7.   Studies
8.   Project Costs and Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
Table 1:  Project Costs
Table 2:  Project Administration Costs
Table 3:  Road Costs
Table 4:  Research and holdirn, Ground Costs
Table 5:  Logginig and 'Tillin,,, Facilities Costs
Table 6:  Schools and Healthi Cunatcrs Costs
Table 7:  Schedule of IEPD - Financed iLxpenditures
Table 8:  Estimated Disburserent Sclie6ulc of IB'3) FunGs



- 3 -
9.   Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste
10.   Rice
11.   Beef
12.   Typical Settlers' Budgets
13.   Logging and Milling Financial Results
14.   Impact of Project on Consolidated Government Budget
15.   Economic Rate of Return
Table: Economic Rate of Return






BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLENENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a colonization project in Maranhao State in
the Northeast Region of Brazil for which a Bank loan of US$6.7 million is
proposed. Under the project some 5,200 new and existing settler families
would be helped to develop 40 ha farms from tropical forest and to produce
rice and beef for sale and other crops for subsistence. The project has
high priority in Government's program to settle about 700,000 families over
the next 20 years in the Amazon Basin and in. the Northeast, to alleviate the
serious rural unemployment situation in the Northeast.  The project would be
one of the first coordinated settlement efforts under this program, and is
particularly important because it would serve as a model for a much larger
colonization program and would introduce a number of innovations to official
colonization activity, including:  creating an autonomous authority to
manage the project; establishing a minimum target income sufficient to
retain settler families on their holdings; making the maximum use of settler
self help in farm and social infrastructure development; creating managed
cooperatives to handle credit and marketing; and rationalizing the exploit-
ation of timber resources. The project would be the second in the
Brazilian agricultural sector financed by the Bank Group; the first was
the Livestock Development Project (Loan 516-BR). After a slow start this
project progressed satisfactorily on the ground. Recent problems associated
with monetary correction of sub-loans have resulted in the suspension of
Bank disbursement.
ii.       The project would be carried out in the period 1973-1978 and would
involve principally: (a) setting up a project authority and two managed
cooperatives; (b) constructing 305 km of roads and trails, and improving 80
km of roads; (c) surveying and demarcating some 5,200 holdings; (d) providing
settlers with medium-term credit to purchase about 22,000 head of cattle
and necessary fencing; (e) operating a research station and introducing a
program of pasture research; (f) expanding an existing lumber mill; (g)
constructing and staffing 62 primary schools, a hospital and ten dispensaries;
and (h) carrying out a number of studies on subjects of importance to future
colonization projects in the Northeast and Amazon Regions.
iii.      Project costs are estimated at US$11.5 million.  Principal components
are project administration US$1.7 million; roads US$3.6 million; on-farm
investment US$2.2 million; short-term marketing credit US$0.9 million; and
contingencies US$2.2 million. The foreign exchange component of the project
costs is very low amounting to US$1.2 million, about 10% of project costs.
The proposed loan of US$6.7 million would finance 49% of project costs
(US$5.6 million) and US$1.1 million in interest which would be capitalized
during the development period. Local costs (US$10.3 million) would be
financed by the Bank (US$4.4 million); from Federal Government budgets
US$4.1 million; by settlers, through down payments on cattle and loan
repayments, US$0.9 million; and by the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BN13),



- ii -
US$0.9 million, for marketing credit. Credit to project settlers would be
subsidized. Loans would be unindexed and bear an annual interest rate of
7%, although the present and expected future annual inflation rate is about
20%. Although credit subsidization is undesirable in principle, its dis-
advantages have been minimized under this project since:  (a) it would be
restricted to a minimum amount per settler; (b) it would not induce farmers
to substitute capital for labor, as it would be used only to purchase cattle
and fencing wire, and for rice marketing; (c) it would not involve resource
misallocation, as participating farmers are so poor that they would have no
financial resources of their own which they could use for other purposes if
they received the projected loans; and (d) it would be financed from Govern-
ment budgetary resources and thlerefore would not affect the project
participating bank's resources.
iv.       The project would be managed by the Companhia de Colonizacao do
Nordeste (COLONE), a public autonomous company to be created by the
Superintendency for the Development of the tNortheast (SUDENE).  SUDENE
is the government agency in charge of promoting and coordinating the
agricultural and industrial development of the Northeast, the poorest
region of Brazil.  COLONE's main shareholders would be SUDMiE, (with more
than 50% of shares), the National Institute of Agrarian Reform and
Colonization, Maranhao State, and the Bank of the NTortheast of Brazil.
v.        International competitive bidding would be employed to obtain
contractors to carry out the road construction program (US$3.6 million).
Hiowever, the relatively small value of the individual contracts spread over
the three-year construction period, and the existence of well-qualified
local contractors, make it unlikely that a foreign comipany would win the
construction contracts. Procurement for building construction, building
materials, jeeps, lumber mill machinery and equipment and land surveys
(US$0.6 million) would be through local competitive bidding since the
small size of the individual investments makes international tendering
impractical. Breeding cattle would be purchased directly by COLONE as the
best method of controlling quality and price.
vi.       The participating settler would receive the minimum assistance
necessary to induce him to develop his holdings.   This assistance would
include a 40 ha farm with freehold title; medium-term credit to purchase a
few breeding cows and a bull, and fencing wire; and marketing credit for
the settler's rice crop.  On his part the settler would meet all expenses
of moving to the project area, constructing his house, and developing his
farm. Development of the latter would be geared to the amount of labor
supplied by the family.  Experience shows that the average family clears
3 ha of forest each year growing 3 ha of rice on this cleared land and it
is assumed that project participants would follow this pattern of development.
The rice would be undersown with grass seed and in the following year the
pasture would be ready for grazing: in about 12 years the holding would be
largely established in pasture. Settlers would also participate in the
construction of social infrastructure, schools and dispensaries. The econo-
mic cost to the country, as well as the net direct cost to government would
be low, at about US$1,700 per settler; this is made possible by the substantial
contribution made by settler's labor and by his down payments on initial



- iii -
cattle and wire purchases. While the burden borne by the settler is large,
it is no greater than that of the many hundreds of thousands of spontaneous
settlers; the latter are developing new land under uncontrolled conditions
with far less prospects in terms of income and living standards, and at the
expense of Brazil's natural resources through the uncontrolled destruction
of forest and subsequent soil depletion.
vii.      Project-induced rice production would rise to about 12,000 tons
by project year 12 (1984) and thereafter decline as beef becomes the major
product. Beef production is expected to reach 5,000 tons annually by
project year 20 (1992). Both beef and rice would be consumed in the
Northeast and Amazon Regions which are deficit areas for these products.
The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 16%.
viii.     In terms of 1972 US dollars net cash incomes of settlers producing
rice and beef are expected to rise to US$454 equivalent by the ninth year of
project participation and to US$618 by year 16. These incomes would be close
to two and a half and to four times the cash incomes of non participating
farmers in those years respectively.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$6.7 million to
the Covernment of Brazil, to be disbursed from 1973 to 1978 and repayable
over 25 years, including five years of grace.






BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLENENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCIIONI
1.01      The Government of Brazil has asked the Bank to finance part of
the cost of consolidating and expanding land settlement in newly opened
areas of the State of M1aranhao, which forms the ecological transition zone
between the Northeast and Amazon regions. The project would provide 5,200
new and existing settler families with a satisfactory standard of living
from the production of beef and rice and would serve as a model for a much
larger settlement program envisaged for the Amazon Basin; the main objective
of which is to provide satisfactory standards of living to large numbers of
subsistence farmers and underemployed peasants, mainly from the Northeast,
where they constitute a major socio-economic problem.
1.02      The concept of such a project in Maranhao State was raised by
Government with a joint Bank/FAO mission in November 1968. A full feasibi-
lity study was executed by consultants, Hunting Technical Services, Ltd.,
a British firm, and financed by the British Overseas Development Administra-
tion and by the Superintendency of the Northeast (SUDENE) in 1970/71. The
feasibility study recommended a project costing US$16.2 million, but
appraisal indicated that this could be reduced to US$11.5 million principally
by employing a slower pace of on-farm development based solely on the
use of family labor. This pattern increases the estimated rate of return
of the project by about 2%.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which
visited Brazil in November/December 1971, comprised of liessrs. Storrar,
Andreu, and Gyamfi (Banlc) and Messrs. Batt and Evans (Consultants).
1.04      The Bank has made one previous agricultural loan to Brazil (516-BR)
of US$40 million in 1967 for livestock development in the Center and South.
After a slow start, project implementation accelerated during 1971 following
the simplification of lending procedures and the improvement of beef prices.
The loan is expected to achieve its objectives successfully by its original
closing date, December 31, 1973 provided present problems associated with
the monetary correction of sub-loans are resolved. In view of progress
achieved, the Bank recently appraised a second livestock project, but the
negotiation of this loan is contingent upon resolving the problem of monetary
correction of sub-loans referred to above.
II.  BACKGROMU)
A. General
2.nl      TTitbh a land1 area of abotit S.9. million kin--, Brazil is divided
into five major re,ions - Amazon, N.orthenst, I-est, Center South, and South.
Population is estimated at about 96 million, heavily concentrated along
the 'lortheast coast, the Centre Soutl, and the South, and is increasing at



- 2 -
about 2.7% annually.  About half of the labor force is erployed in agriculture,
w7hiich in 1971 contributed about 2M' of GDP, wehich a-mounted to US$40.8 billion.
GDP per capita in 1971 was US$426, with wide regional variations.
2.02      Agricultural exports were valued at some US$2.2 billion and
represented about 80% of total exports in 1970.  Coffee is the major export
and earned about US$932 million followed by cotton US$154 million; sugar
US$127 million, cocoa US$106 million; corn US$80 million, soybean US$71
million, and beef US$69 million.  Since lWorld War II the growth of agricul-
tural production has averaged 4% annually but it has been unable to absorb
a sufficiently large proportion of the rapidly increasing labor force. This
is particularly the case in the ,ortlheast, where unemployment and rural
poverty continue to increase.
B. The Northeast and Amazon Regions
2.03      The N-Tortheast covers about one-fifth of Brazil.  Climate is
tropical and vegetation ranges from rain forest in the coastal areas to
grasssland and scrubland in the semi-arid areas of the interior. These
semi-arid areas comprise about 50% of the region's land area and are subject
to drought. Soils are shallow, sandy and poor in plant nutrients. Popu-
lation is about 28 m-illion, and is heavily concentrated in the coastal belt.
2.04      The 'Northeast is the poorest region of Brazil.  Average annual
per capita income in 1970 was about USS200, less than 50% of the national
average, but rural families which rely on their income from itinerant
labor or which live on subsistence agriculture have annual incomes of only
about US$250 or US$50 per capita. Agriculture is the most important sector,
accounting for 66% of total employnent and 40% of regional GDP. Agricultural
development, however, is substantially hindered by a poor resource base and
by the lack of research, credit and extension services, and of individual
land titles. Under these circumstances agriculture has been unable to
contribute significantly to provide new jobs to meet annual regiolnal increases
in the labor force estimated at 300,000, to say nothing about reducing a
backlog of unemployment and underemployment of about 1.3 million, which
represents about one-fourth of the present labor force.
2.05      Government has recognized that due to the limited labor absorption
capacity of industry much of the solution to the problems of unemployment
and poverty must lie within agriculture itself and more specifically in
the development of news lands in the Amazon, whlich comprises 40%Z of Brazil's
land area and is largely uninhabited. Government has recently begun to
develop the Amazon on a large scale by building roads, assigning large sums
for agricultural development, creating new agencies to administer major
development prograrms, and givinct fiscal incentives to attract private
enterprise to the area.
C. Iistory of Settler.ent
2.06      At present over a million hectares annually are beini- added to'
the agricultural area of the country.  Until recently, colonization of



new lands occurred mainly in the South.  With the South relatively well
settled, new settlement is occurring mostly in the Amazon and adjacent
areas of the 1Northeast where, under conditions of high rainfall and
temperatures and generally poor soils, it is difficult and expensive to
sustain annual cropping of the land. Families clear small areas for sub-
sistence foods and for rice production; when fertility declines they move
oni to new areas, either leaving the land to be developed into extensive
pasture by large-scale private ranchers or to revert to secondary forest.
Shifting cultivation is destroying'one of Brazil's great natural resources,
its tropical forests; provides only subsistence for its participants; and
causes severe social problems arising from the lack of proper housing,
health and education facilities.
2.07      Most settlement is spontaneous and receives virtually no Government
support. The small number of Government-sponsored settlement projects have
been poorly planned and executed and participating settlers have ended
up practising the same type of shifting cultivation employed by spontaneous
settlers. The proposed project would introduce new and simple metlhods for
officially-sponsored settlement activities at low financial costs which would
permit the establishment of permanent settlement communities in the Amazon
and bordering areas on a large scale.
III. THiE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
3.01      Location, Climate and Soils.  The project area covers 400,000 ha
in the Northwest of the State of iliaranhao, which lies in the transition
zone between the Northeast and the Amazon retions (Map 1).  Rainfall varies
between 2,000 mm in the north and 1,500 mm in the south.  The temperature
is about 27°C all year round. The northern part of the project area is
covered by primary forest and the southern part by secondary forest. Soils
are generally poor, shallow and sandy but suitable for one cash crop
followed by permanent pasture.
3.02      Topography, Water Supplies and Drainage.  The topography is
g,ently undulating.  There are numerous permanent streams, and these, together
with shallow wells and boreholes, would provide sufficient water for project
needs through the development period. Surveys would be conducted to
ascertain water availabilities for future project needs (para 4.16). Drain-
age is seldom a problem.
3.03      Transport and Cormunications.  The project area is well served by
trunk roads, such as the DF-316, a laterite hi,ghway which by early 1973 will
also link the Ilorthleast with the port of Belem on thf Amazon river.  This
hiahwav forms the longitudinal axis of the project area.  Other important
roads are  A-S15 and BR-135 which link the project area and the city of Sao
Luis, capital of Maranhao State.  South of the Turiacu river in an area
which has been Partially settled, there are about 110 km of feeder roads in
fair condition.  Piver transport is of small importance, and there are no



- 4 -
railways. Airstrips for light aircraft are usable in the dry season. Radio
communication is available and new telephone lines are being installed.
B. Institutions
3.04       Institutions operating in the project area that would be concerned
with the project include: the Federal Regional Development Agency for the
Nortlheast (SUDENE); the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB); the Brazilian
WJarehousing Company (CIBRAZEM); the liaranhao State-Roads Department (DERMA);
the Agricultural Research Institute of the North (IPEAN); and the Maranhao
State Agricultural Extension Agency (ACAR). SUDENE and BNB are described
in detail in Annex 1.
3.05      SUDENE is the federal agency responsible for development in the
Northeast.  So far SUDENE has been mainly concerned with attracting private
industrial development and in this it has been successful. SUDENE is now
beginning to pay more attention to land settlement as a faster and cheaper
means of creating jobs.  S!DENE would form an autonomous company to carry
out the proposed project, the Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste (COLONE).
3.06      BNB was establislhed by the Federal Government to assist in the
economic development of the Northeast. BNB is the recipient of a Bank loan
(656-BP) of US$25 million for industrial development, and enjoys a good
reputation as a banking institution. I,ith 63 branches it is the biggest
bank in the Aortheast, but it is not able to satisfy the growing demand
for medium- and long-term agricultural credit, and, wh1ile well qualified
and prepared to undertake project credit operations, could only finance
fror- its own resources the projects' short-term credit  requirements.  BNB
would organize, staff and manage the two proposed project cooperatives.
3.07      CIB"71EN operates warehouses where farmers can deposit produce
and receive advances up to 7OZ of the support price fixed annually by
roverinent.  The financing operation is handled by the Bank of Brazil.  DERMA
would be consulted on project road design and construction standards and
woul3 eventually be responsible for project road maintenance. IPEAN and
ACAR are responsible for agricultural researclh and extension respectively;
they would help in staffing, would be consulted on these pro-rams, and would
he required to take over project services at the end of the project develop-
ment period!.
C.  Settlement and Land Use
3.03      Settlement.  Spontaneous settlement of some 5,000 families lias
occurred mainlv south of the Turiacu river (Annex 2) and extensive areas
have been abandoned to secondary forest.  In 1963 controlled settlement was
initiated by SIPE:JE in areas also south of the Turiacu river; during the
following four years, about 1,0no families were settled in 16 settlement
nuclei.  'lost of these settlers have continued with rice cultivation on
tile sare basis as spontaneous settlers. Timber extraction was also undertaken



- 5 -
by SUDENE. Poor management and lack of funds have impeded the efficient
development of settlement and of timber operations.
3.09      Land Use and Farming System.  After clearing and burning 3 to 4 ha
of forest during August to November, upland rice is sown between the stumps
and debris at the onset of the rains in January. Some settlers sow widely
spaced rows of maize in December and undersow rice in January. M$aize is
harvested in May and rice in June/July (Annex 2). Settlers allow the land
cleared to revert to secondary forest after obtaining one year's crop and
proceed to clear another 3-4 ha each year. This farming pattern has been
followed over the past six years and will continue until the farmers have
finished clearing their holdings of primary forest. No help has been given
to farmers to establish pasture on their holdings, and only a few have
succeeded in obtaining cattle through their own resources.  On completion
of the first clearing and cropping cycle on their holding the settlers will
be forced to repeat the process, clearing the secondary bush for a further
single crop of rice at lower yields.
3.10      Land Tenure.  The project is located in an area designated for
settlement by decree of the Government of the State of Maranhao. The
State has the right to expropriate land already granted or sold. The
Servicio de Desenvolvimento Agrario (SDA) is the authority responsible for
executing state land policy including the issue of land titles. No titles
have so far been issued in the project area but SUDENE is currently nego-
tiating an agreement on behalf of COLONE with SDA by which the procedure for
issue of title to settlers will be laid down. The signing of this agreement
is a condition of effectiveness.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General
4.01      The project would provide stable employment and satisfactory
incomes for an estimated 4,500 settler families by assisting them to develop
farms on which they would produce their basic food requirements as well
as rice and beef cattle for sale. In addition, an estimated 700
settler families would produce only rice for sale, and would benefit from
utilizing project rice marketing facilities. Accorded high priority by
Government, this would be one of the first projects in a 20-year program
designed to settle aobut 700,000 poor families in the Amazon and its border-
ing, areas.  The project would introduce a number of concepts and procedures
new to settlement programs in Brazil, including:
-    creating an autonomous authority to manage the project;
-    establishing a target income sufficient to retain settler
families on their holdings, providing farms of sufficient
size to generate this income when worl;ed at a moderate
intensity, and providing the minimum necessary amount of
investment credit;



- 6 -
requiring settlers to make a substantial labor contribution
to the development of their farms and communities on a self-
help basis;
issuing land titles to settlers;
-    creating managed credit and marketing cooperatives;
-    rationalizing the exploitation of the timber resources from
land to be cleared for settlement; and
-    retaining forest reserves to protect the environment.
The project is therefore of much greater importance than its small size
would indicate and its successful implementation could serve as an important
guide to future colonization policy.
4.02      The project would be carried out over a five-year period (1973-1978)
and would include:
-    formation of the Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste (COLONE)
as an autonomous authority responsible for colonization in the
project area, including land surveys, on-farm development,
road and building construction, research and extension,
cattle supply, surveys and studies;
-    design and construction of about 22 km of penetration roads,
234 km of access roads, and 49 km of trails, as well as the
improvement of about 80 km of access roads;
-    land surveys and demarcation of about 5,200 individual
holdings of about 40 ha each;
-    establishment and operation of a research station and of
cattle holding grounds;
-    expansion of logging and milling operations;
-    construction of 62 schools, a hospital and ten dispensaries;
and
-    studies on rice, beef, and timber marketing; preparation of a
second phase of land settlement; and a survey of the project
area's water resources.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      Settlement.  The 5,200 new and existing settlers would be provided
with 40 ha holdings, and about 85% of these would farm on the pattern
described in Annex 2. Each holding would have an average road frontage of
150 m and a depth of 2,500 m.  New settlers would:  move into the project



-7-
area at their own expense, provide their own tools and equipment, build
their houses without assistance from Government, plant 3 ha of rice undersown
with pastures each year, join one of the project cooperatives, and live on
their own resources until they sold their first rice crop. No form of
preselection would be practised since settlers willing and able to undertake
the foregoing generally would have the qualities necessary to justify their
participation in the project. Some of these conditions may appear harsh,
but they have been met with far lesser prospects by many farm families
which have already settled spontaneously in the Amazon and border areas.
4.04      It is estimated that participants would join the project as
follows:
Years                1973      1974     1975      1976     Total
Existing settlers
(Rice and beef)           500    1,000       800       600     2,900
New settlers
(Rice and beef)           150       350      500       600     1,600
Niew settlers
(Rice only)                50       120      230       300       7C0
Total      700    1,470    1,530    1,500        5,200
COLONE would provide annually, three months in advance, a detailed project
implementation schedule for the Bank's agreement. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.05      In line with present Government policy to leave a substantial part
of the Amazon area under forest to protect the environment, two blocks
totalling 100,000 ha of forest would be retained in the poorest and topograph-
ically most difficult lands in the project area north of the Turiacu river.
These blocks would be surveyed, legally set aside, and timber exploitation
would be permitted only on a controlled basis. About 90% of the land cleared
under the project would be planted to permanent pasture and this would hlelp
prevent erosion and control runoff.  Cauges wzould be installed to check the
possible effects of land clearing on rainfall and on runoff. These measure-
ments would yield useful preliminary information regarding important effects
of deforestation. In addition, the Bank is prenared to recommend to the
Brazilian Government that comprehensive ecological studies be included in
the large Altamira Settlement Project, wshich th-e Bank is helping to prepare
for possible appraisal early in calendar 1973.
4.06      Companhia do Colonizacao do Nordeste (COLONE).  COLONE is expected
to be registered shortly as a public corporation. Its headquarters would be
at Ze Doca.  Details of COLONE are given in Chanter VI.  SUDEIE would be the
majority shareholder in COLONE and has undertaken responsibility for its
formation (see para 6.02). A condition of effectiveness is the issuance or
transfer to Maranhao and BNB of at least 40% of the authorized share capital
of COLONE.  An alternative to COLONE could be direct managemient bv SUDEThE.



- 8 -
This was considered but rejected for three principal reasons. First,
the project requires decision-making by management fully informed of day-
to-day operations. Second, SUDENE's past efforts in settlement have
not been fully satisfactory. Thirdly, to -attract competent staff to
live in the project area higher salaries would be needed than those
now paid by SUDENE; an autonomous company would be able to pay these
higher salaries.
4.07      Roads.  The program would include construction of new penetration
and access roads mostly north of the Turiacu River, and improvement of
access roads south of the Turiacu river. The program (Annex 3) is
summarized below:
Years                1973     1974     1975      Total
--------------(km)--------------
Construction
Penetration and
access roads             50      100      106       256
Irails                      10       19        20       49
Improvement
Access roads                16       32        32       80
Detailed design standards would be agreed between COLONE and DERMA which would
be responsible for maintenance. COLONE would employ consultants under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank for road design and to assist with
tenders and contract awards, in analysing bids and to certify that works
were carried out according to plans and specifications. Assurances to these
effects were obtained during negotiations.
4.08      Land Surveys and Demarcation of Holdings.  The Maranhao Government
has agreed to grant ownership of the project area to COLONE without compensation
and such outright grant is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan. COLONE would subsequently issue titles to individual settlers.
Private surveyors would be engaged to survey settlers' holdings. Conditional
titles would be replaced by a permanent title when the holding has been
developed to a satisfactory standard.
4.09      Managed Cooperatives.  Produce of spontaneous settlers is normally
marketed through private traders, whereas produce from SUDENE settlers was
marketed through a SUDENE-sponsored cooperative. Neither system has
ensured satisfactory produce prices; in the first case because of excessive
trader profits and in the second case because of mismanagement. Well-run
cooperatives could obtain better producer prices. Two cooperatives would
be formed and managed by BINI; they would channel credit from BNB to the
settlers and membership would be mandatory for settlers receiving credit
under the project (para 6.06 and Annex 4).
4.10      Credit.  Short-term credit would be restricted to 70% of the value
of the rice crop handled by the cooperatives based on the Government support
price and would be about Cr$ 1,050 (US$190) per settler per year. Settlers



- 9 -
would receive medium-term credit to cover 80% of the purchase cost of
breeding cattle and fencing wire (Annex 4). Each participant would be
eligible for credit to help purchase four cows, a yearling bull and necessary
fencing wire in the first two years of project participation. The value of
this credit would amount to Cr$ 2,480 (US$450). Thereafter the natural
increase of the basic herd would permit both sales of stock and the adequate
stocking of the remainder of the holding as it is put down to pasture
(Annex 2, Table). Security for loans would be a lien on the settlers'
chattels including the cattle and their progeny.
4.11      Research.  Past and ongoing research at the IPEAN station at
Ze Doca has been of limited value and no effective work has been done on
pastures. Under the project a program of pasture research would be implemented.
This would involve expansion of the Ze Doca station from 400 to 800 ha;
establishing a sub-station of 100 ha at Nova Olinda; employing an experienced
pasture research institution to design and monitor the research program, and
an experienced specialist to direct it; and training Brazilian scientists
in tropical pasture work. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that a pasture research' program would be conducted on the above general lines
and that the pasture specialist would be recruited in consultation with the
Bank. Ongoing research on rice and other crops would be intensified. To
ensure that the research programs are practical and oriented toward project
needs, COLONE would take over the Ze Doca station, its staff and facilities
and would be responsible for research during the project development period,
thereafter it would be handed over to IPEAN.
4.12      Cattle llolding Grounds.  COLONE would be responsible for purchasing
cattle on behalf of settlers, and would need facilities to hold such
cattle for inspection and inoculation and other treatment. Parts of the
Ze Doca and Nova Olinda stations would be equipped for these purposes.
4.13      Forestry.  A major potential asset of the project area is its
standing timber. Surveys indicate a stand of about 30 m3 per ha which if felled
and marketed would have a value of about US$150 per ha. Under present
arrangements, however, only a small fraction of the standing timber is being
exploited. The small SUDENE mill at Cocalinho is old and management is
weak. Under the project the mill would be improved and expanded to produce
a small amount of sawn lumber and railroad ties. The proposed modifications
and exDansion would not be large since any major investment in forest
industries must await detailed market surveys and a full feasibility study
(para 7.03 and Annex 5).
4.14      Schools and Health Centres.  Adequate education and health facilities
are essential to permanent settlement. One primary school would be required
for each 60 settler families (Annex 6) and since there are already 13
primary schools in the project area another 62 would be built. The design
would be simple and the structure principally of wood. COLONE would provide
all building materials and equipment required for these schools and for the
associated teachers' housing as well as some skilled labor. Settlers would
provide all other labor without compensation. Similar methods would be
used to construct ten health centres. A ten-bed hospital with ancilliary
facilities would be built by contractors at Nova Olinda. SUDENE would



- l0 -
recruit staff and meet all education and health operating expenses (not
included under the project) of about Cr$ 1.4 million a year during the first
ten years. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Maranhao State would take over these services thereafter.
4.15      Studies.  Too little is known at present to permit investment in
large-scale timber production. COLONE would employ consultants during the
first year of project implementation, to determine market outlets and
the feasibility of a major investment in logging and milling facilities in
Alto Turi. Studies on alternative ways of organizing rice and beef marketing
would be undertaken by consultants. The information gathered from these
studies would be useful for further agricultural developrent of the Amazon
Basin and for a possible second phase colonization project in Niaranhao.
Preparation of this possible second phase by consultants is also included
under the project (Annex 7). During negotiations assurances were obtained
that the terms of reference for these studies and the selection of experts
to undertake them would be agreed by the Bank.
4.16      Wiater Supply.  Several permanent rivers and innumerable small
streams, which flow for eight to nine months of the year, traverse the project
area.  Existing setLers have demonstrated that shallow wells can provide
sufficient water frr domestic purposes and a few cattle throughout the year,
and SUDENE has dri lld eleven test tubewells whiich have yielded a satisfactory
3,500 litres per hcu    It appears that water supplies would not oe a
problem in the p--ect d'evelopment period, and further that resources should
be adequate to meet nsss at full project development.  To ensure the
latter, COLONE wcjuLd n½ae a survey of dry season water resources, and prepare
appropriate plans f.  ieeting future project needs in the most efficient way.
COSTS ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.01      Estimated proje,r   sts during the five-year development period
1973 through 1977 total t 63 .3,3 million (US$11.5 million).  The foreign
exchange component is lc.T at Cr$ 6.4 million (US$1.2 nlillion) or 10% of
project costs. Costs are U8tailed in Annex 8, Tables 1 to 6 and sunmarized
in the following table:



SUMMARY OF PROJECr COSTS 1973 THROUGH 1977
Million Cr$                  Thousand US$
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Administration               8.9       0.7      9.6   1,618        127    1,745
Road Construction           16.5       3.3     19.8   3,000        607    3,607
Land Surveys                 1.0        -       1.0      180        -       180
On-Farm Investments         12.3        -      12.3   2,240         -     2,240
Marketing Credit             4.7        -       4.7      859        -       859
Research and Holding
Grounds                    0.3       -        0.3       47       -         47
Forestry                     0.8        -       0.8      152        -        152
Schools and Health Centres 1.2          -        1.2     216        -        216
Studies                      0.5       1.2      1.7       91       209      300
Subtotal         46.2       5.2     51.4   8,403        943    9,346
Contingencies
Physical                   2.3      0.3       2.6      411        56      467
Price                      8.4       0.9      9.3   1,524        169    1,693
Subtotal         10.7       1.2      11.9   1,935       225    2,160
Total Project Costs         56.9       6.4     63.3  10,338    1,168   11,506
Interest on IBRD Loan
During Development           -         6.2      6.2      -       1,126    1,126
GRAND TOTAL           56.9      12.6      69.5  10,338    2,294   12,632
5.02      Costs are based on up-to-date experience in the project area; they
include all taxes and duties (which are estimated to be about 1% of total
costs) and are expressed in terms of December 1971 cruzeiros. They exclude,
however, the value of family labor, estimated at US$2.7 million, which is an
essential contribution to the project and which makes possible the very low
projected costs per family settled. Physical contingencies are estimated at
5% of total costs. Price contingencies are 6% of project costs compounded
annually.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      A Bank loan of US$6.7 million would be made to Government for a
term of 25 years including a grace period of five years. The loan would cover
58% of total project costs, including capitalized interest during the develop-
ment period.
5.04      US$2.3 million, or 34% of the loan, would cover the estimated project
foreign exchange costs and capitalized interest during the development period.
The balance of US$4.4 raillion (66', of the loan) would finance 43; of local



- 12 -
currency costs which total US$10.3 million. The remainder of local currency
costs (US$5.9 million) would be met by Government - US$4.1 million; settlers -
US$0.9 million 1/ and BNB - US$0.9 million. Government's contribution would
be made through Federal Government budgetary allocations. Government would
make available: (a) to COLONE a grant of US$8.0 million equivalent represent-
ing the proceeds of the Bank loan (excluding that part covering interest
during development) and part of its own contribution to project costs; (b) to
BNB a grant of US$1.7 million to cover net incremental medium-term credit
requirements and BNB administration costs. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from Government that it would make available: (a) quarterly
in advance to COLONE funds to cover all project expenses, including those to
be reimbursed by the Bank; and (b) promptly as needed to BNB funds for
medium-term onlending to settlers. BNB's own contribution would cover project
marketing credit needs; at peak demand in project year four (1976) this is
expected to amount to about Cr$ 4.7 million (US$0.9 million) (Annex 8, Table
1).  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BNB would establish
a revolving fund for rice marketing credit under the project. In summary
the project would be financed as follows:
1/   Settlers would also repay thte costs of land surveys and demarcation,
but these would be negligible in real terms.



- 13 -
Settlers       Government -       IBRD          Total
Cr$     US$      Cr$    US$       Cr$   US$    Cr$    US$
------------------------- Millions -------------------…--
A. COLONE
Administration                                                               /2
operating        -        -       6.4    1.1        -     -      6.4      1.1
Pasture and
extension
experts          -        -        -       -       1.0   0.2    1.0       0.2
Fixed assets    -         -        -       -       0.9   0.2    0.9       0.2
Road construc-
tion             -        -        -       -      19.8   3.6   19.8       3.6
Land Surveys    -         -       1.0    0.2        -     -      1.0      0.2
Research and
holding grounds -         -        -       -       0.3   0.05   0.3       0.05
Forestry         -        -        -       -       0.8   0.15   0.8       0.15
Schools and
health centers  -         -        -       -       1.2   0.2    1.2       0.2
Studies          -        -        -       -       1.7   0.3    1.7       0.3
Sub-total      -        -       7.4    1.3    25.7   4.7   33.1         6.0
B. BNB
Administration  -         -       1.2    0.2        -      -     1.2      0.2
Incremental
marketing credit-         -       4.7    0.9        -      -     4.7      0.9
Medium-term
credit           -                8.2    1.5        -     -      8.2      1.5
Sub-total      -        -      14.2 /2 2.6        -     -    14.2       2.6
C. Settlers
Financial con-
tributions      4.1      0.7       -       -        -     -      4.1      0.7
TOTAL          4.1      0.7    21.6    3.9    25.7   4.7   51.3          9.3
D. Contingencies  0.9        0.2      6.2    1.1      4.8   0.9   11.9        2.2
Sub-total    5.0       0.9    27.8    5.0    30.5   5.6   63.2    11.5
F. Interest on
IBRD loan
capltlized
during develop-
ment period      -        -        -       -       6.2   1.1    6.2       1.1
GRAND TOTAL  5.0       0.9    27.8    5.0    36.7   6.7   69.5    12.6
_ _ . . _ _  =  _  ==   ====       =
/1   Includes contribution of US$0.9 million from BNB for incremental
marketing credit.
/2   Rounded.



- 14 -
C.  Procurement
5.05      International competitive tendering procedures would be used for
road construction (US$3.6 million) and assurances would be obtained to this
effect, but it is unlikely that non-Brazilian firms would win such contracts,
since: (a) road construction would be spread over three years; (b) most of
the program would comprise small contracts which cannot be grouped con-
veniently. Building materials, mainly for houses, offices and schools
(US$360,000) would consist mostly of wooden structures. These are manu-
factured in Brazil at prices which cannot be matched by importers. Jeeps
and other vehicles (US$76,000), as well as lumber mill machinery (US$75,000)
would not lend themselves to bulk procurement and are available locally.
All these items therefore would be procured through local competitive
bidding under procedures that would be agreed between the Bank and COLONE.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such procedures would
be agreed with the Bank. Breeding cattle would be procured by COLONE through
direct purchase in Maranhao and the surrounding states with funds provided
by Government through BNB. Direct purchase by COLONE is the only effective way
of organizing the supply of 22,000 head of cattle to settlers and to control
price and quality.
D. Disbursement
5.06      The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100Z (excluding any
readily identifiable taxes) of the cost of: road design, construction, and
supervision contracts (US$3.6 million); contracts for COLONE, e.g. buildings
and houses, vehicles and other equipment; research and development installa-
tions and equipment; materials purchased for schools and health centers;
expansion of the lumber mill; research staff and training; studies; and
capitalized interest during development (see Table in para 5.04). Contingencies
amounting to US$0.9 million would be unallocated. Disbursements would be
made against appropriate documents certified by the project manager. Dis-
bursements for road construction would also require certification of the
consultants that the works had been carried out according to plans and spe-
cifications. If excess funds remained at the end of the project period they
would be cancelled. (Estimated annual Bank financed expenditures disburse-
ments are at Annex 8, Tables 7 and 8).
E. Accounts and Audit
5.07      Project accounts would be maintained by COLONE.  These would cover
all project transactions except credit transactions between BNB, the
cooperatives, and settlers. COLONE accounts would be audited annually by an
independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank. BNB would maintain a central
account for project cooperatives which would include records of administrative
expenses and individual credit transactions between cooperatives and settlers.



- 15 -
The BNB account would be subject to audit by BNB's external auditors (Arthur
Young, Clarkson, Gordan and Company) who are satisfactory to the Bank. Each
cooperative would maintain its own accounts which would be subject to external
audit. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the above procedures
would be followed, and that audited COLONE and cooperative accounts together
with copies of the auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
four months of the closing of each financial year.
F. Credit
5.08      Credit to project settlers would be subsidized.  Loans would be
unindexed and bear interest of 7% per annum although the present annual
inflation rate, which may continue for some time, is about 20%. Credit
subsidation has been a long-standing policy of Government in its objective
of inducing agricultural development, particularly in the Northeast; the
Government is firmly committed to this policy in the foreseeable future.
It would be virtually impossible, both politically and administratively, to
establish a loan structure on an unsubsidized basis for the limited area
of this particular project.
5.09      Although credit subsidization is generally an undesirable practice,
in the case of this project the disadvantages have been minimized because:
(a)  participating farmers would be a particularly poor segment of
the community, and would have no financial resources of their
own which they could use for other purposes due to the provision
of credit;
(b)  credit would not induce settlers to substitute capital for
labor, as it would be used only for cattle and fencing
purchases and rice marketing;
(c)  credit would be restricted to the minimum required to ensure
a satisfactory level of income for project participants;
(d)  participants would receive medium-term credit for a period of
two years and thereafter would be ineligible for further credit
from project funds; and
(e)  the financial resources of the credit institution (BNB) would not
be adversely affected, as the credit fund would be financed
directly from Government budgets.



- 16 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste
6.01      An autonomous authority, the Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste
would be created to manage the project for a period of 6 years only (para
6.08). An autonomous authority is favored over direct management by SUDENE
since it would permit:
(a)  timely decision-making by officials resident in the project
area and with a good knowledge of local conditions; and
(b)  employing staff on terms and conditions of service adequate
to ensure the recruitment of suitably qualified project staff
and their retention in the isolated project area.
6.02      COLONE would be organized as a non-profit public corporation with
SUDENE the majority shareholder. Other shareholders would be Maranhao
State agencies, BNB, and the National Institute of Colonization (INCRA).
The SUDENE representative would be COLONE's chairman. The project director
would be the chief executive and would be a member of the Board.
6.03      COLONE would be headquartered at Ze Doca, and comprise three main
departments. Finance and Administration would be responsible for staffing
and accounting. The Construction Section would deal with the design and
construction of roads, schools and health centers, and with water supply.
Agricultural Services would handle general settlers' affairs; land surveys
and titling; forestry matters; agricultural extension and research; breeding
cattle purchases and veterinary services; and would coordinate project credit
and marketing operations with BNB and the cooperatives. Agricultural
Services would work under an experienced extension expert who would be
supported by an area manager at Ze Doca and another at Nova Olinda. Each
area manager would be assisted by a marketing officer, and would supervise
the project's extension agents, of whom there would be one for each 150
settlers. An evaluation of project performance and results would be conducted
by the project manager with the help of a member of his staff specifically
assigned to do this job. This evaluation would include an analysis of
settlers' incentives.
6.04      Staffing:  Few problems are anticipated in finding suitable
administrative and field staff for COLONE (Annex 8, Table 2) with the possible
exception of a well qualified extension specialist who would be in charge
of agricultural services for the first 3 years of the project and who would
be responsible also for training project agricultural staff. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained from ADC that during the disbursement
period of the Bank loan the posts of project director, and of director of
the Agricultural Services Department would be filled by persons whose
qualifications and experience were acceptable to the Bank.



- 17 -
6.05      Finances:  COLONE would receive initially a land grant from Maranhao
State for redistribution as farms and forest reserve areas. COLONE would
also receive: (a) quarterly cash grants from Government; and (b) royalties
from the mill concessionaire, both of which would be used for project
administration and development.
B. Managed Cooperatives
6.06      Cooperatives would be formed at Ze Doca and Nova Olinda and BNB's
Rural Credit Department would provide managerial staff for these cooperatives.
Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations. A condition
of effectiveness is that regulations and by-laws of the cooperatives will
have been prepared and are satisfactory to the Bank. In time BNB should be
able to hand over management of the cooperatives to their members. During
negotiations, however, assurances were obtained that BNB would not do so
until both BNB and the Bank agreed that the cooperatives were able to assume
responsibility for their own affairs.
C. Logging and Milling
6.07      COLONE would not have the expertise to operate the Cocalinho mill
efficiently. Consequently, COLONE would enter into an agreement with a
suitable experienced private enterpreneur, who would receive a concession
to manage the mill and to exploit specific forest areas. The concessionaire
would purchase the mill on credit over 5 years at 12% annual real interest
rate and would pay royalties to COLONE. A condition of disbursement of the
Bank loan for the improvement of the mill would be the conclusion of an
agreement between COLCNE and a suitable concessionaire satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Ilanagement - Post Development Period
6.08      COLONE's responsibilities for the project would terminate:  (a)
after the six years required to complete the settlement program, when it
would hand over its responsibilities for agricultural services to ACAR, and
for research to IPEAN, and (b) after tlhree years wlhen it would hand over
road construction to DERMA. Certain COLONE staff, in particular extension
personnel, would be transferred to the successor agencies to ensure the
continuity of satisfactory support services to settlers in the project area.



- 1s -
VII. YIELDS, PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES
AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
7.01      Experience in the project area indicates that an average yield of
1,800 kg per ha of paddy would be obtained following the clearing of primary
forest and 1,500 kg per ha following clearing of secondary forest. Based
on these yields, production of paddy would grow to 12,000 tons by 1977, remain
at that level until 1984, and thereafter decrease to 4,000 tons a year as
beef production gradually takes over from rice as the major activity.
7.02      Cattle produced on settlers' holdings would have a carcass weight
of 170 kg per head at time of sale. At maturity in 1988, settlers' offtake
is estimated at 40 kg/ha of carcass weight per annum, assuming only the use
of simple farming practices described in Chapter IV. Project carcass
production is estimated to increase from 200 tons in 1978 to 5,000 tons by
1992 and to stabilize at that level.
7.03      The annual Cocalinlio mill throughput would be 84,000 railway ties
and 2,100 m3 of sawn lumber. This would use only a small proportion of the
available timber but marketing uncertainties limit further exploitation for
the time being.
B. Markets and Prices
7.04      Prices and markets are discussed at Annexes 10 and 11.  All project
production would be consumed within the Northeast which has a rice deficit
of some 300,000 tons, supplied partially from the South and from imports.
Project beef supplies would be insignificant compared to existing deficits.
Belem alone now imports some 40,000 tons of meat annually, most of it from
Central Brazil more than 1,500 krn away: the project, located only 430 km
from Belem on BR-316, would be a very competitive supplier to this large
market which could absorb the total production under the project. Substan-
tial markets also exist in Fortaleza and other cities of the Northeast.
7.05      Farmgate prices are estimated at CR$ 0.33 (US$0.06) per kg of
paddy, and CPS 3 (US$0.54) per kg of beef carcass; these are present prices
in the project area. The Bank Economics DeDartmnent's forecast of world
rice prices shows that over the period 1972-1981 the cif cost of imported
rice of similar grades at Northeastern ports would average US$105/ton, which
would be roughly the present wholesale price of locally produced rice when
handling, transportation and warehousina costs are added.  Therefore the
prevailin- farmgate nrice for rice also represents its economic value and
is used in the economic analysis of the project.  Similarly, the fob Brazil
export prices for beef (US$680 per metric ton CWE 1/) projected by the Bank's
1 /   Carcass weight equivalent.



- 19 -
Economics Department through the early 1980's are about the same as the
ruling wholesale prices from which farmgate prices are derived. Therefore,
current farmgate prices for beef are used in the economic analysis.
7.06      An ex-mill price of CR$ 11 (US$2) per railroad tie and CR$ 100
(US$18) per m3 of sawn lumber is currently being paid by local timber
merchants for production from the Cocalinho mill. Project timber production
is very small, and it is anticipated that the lumber market will remain firm.
Current ex-mill prices are used in the economic analysis.
C. Settlers' Financial Results
7.07      The project would help its participants achieve their first step
towards developing profitable farming enterprises.  Farm budgets at Annex 12
slhow that returns to settlers would be sufficient to ensure their full
cooperation in the project, and that together with title to 40 ha of land
they would have the means and incentive to undertake more intensive forms
of agriculture than estimated under the project. There would be no restric-
tions on settlers intensifying and diversifying their activities beyond
those foreseen in this report and in practice settlers would be encouraged
to do so.  In the project development period, however, COLONE and BNB would
concentrate on ensuring that settlers achieved a level of farm development
adequate to provide an acceptable standard of living. Thereafter, the
extent of further improvement would depend on the settler's own ability
and that of ACAR, IPEAN, BNB and other credit organizations to provide pro-
gressive settlers with the assistance needed to intensify their operations.
7.08      All families in the project area would grow a range of crops, such
as cassava, beans and bananas, and raise poultry and pigs for subsistence.
Cash income would derive from the sale of rice or of rice and beef. The
annual net cash income per family for different groups of settlers in the
project area is estimated as follows:
Participating Settler
Non-Participating  Participating Settler   Selling Pice Through
Year of      Settler Selling    Selling Rice Through    Cooperatives and Beef
Settlement  Rice on his own    Project Cooperatives    Through Traders
--------------------------CP$---------------------------------
1             1,075                1,450                   1,450
13               850                1,150                   2,210
16               850                1,150                   3,400
The decline of incomes in year 13 for settlers not producing beef reflects
the lower rice vield caused by the declining fertility of soils sown to rice
a second time after an 11-year fallow. Eventually fertilizer might be used
to increase rice yields, but currently no information is available on the
economics of fertilizer use in the project area.



- 20 -
7.09      The economic advantages of producing rice and beef together are
substantial as shown in the above table. The estimated per capita net
income (net cash income plus CR$ 1,000 of subsistence production) for a rice
and beef producing family would increase-in real terms at an annual rate
of about 4%, which is far higher than the estimated growth rate for the average
rural family in the Northeast (less than 1%) and roughly about the same as
the estimated growth rate for the country as a whole (3.5% - 4%) over the
next 15 years. Progressive settlers who intensified and diversified their
production would obtain substantially higher incomes than those discussed
above.
7.10      During appraisal a system whereby the target income would be
achieved by growing rice alone was considered as an alternative to the
farm development plan adopted. The possibility of forming units which at
full development would provide subsistence and double the proposed net
income was also considered. Both alternatives, however, would involve
much higher investments, a higher credit risk and lower financial and
economic rates of return. Government agreed that the main purpose of
the Alto Turi Project was to establish a simple and flexible system, such
as that described in this report, which would provide an adequate income
level to as many families as possible at lowwest cost to Government.
D. Financial Results of Logging and Milling Operations
7.11      Annual production from the mill would be 84,000 sleepers and
2,100 m3 of sawn lumber. The sleepers would be sold to the railways on
contract and the sawm lumber to the local building industry. The logging
and milling operation would be profitable to the concessionaire on the
terms proposed under the project (Annex 13). The royalty of CR$ 2 per
sleeper paid to COLONE by the concessionaire for tiriber extraction would amount
to CR$ 168,000 (US$30,500) per annum; these funds would be used by COLONE
for betterment purposes suclh as staff training, well lining and additional
equipment for schools in the project area.
E. Financial Results to Government
7.12      T'he project would involve a cost to Government during the develop-
ment period of about 'US-1,700 per family settled; this excludes expenditures
on health and education, which would have to be incurred in any case, and on
research and studies, which will have their own future benefits. The cost
is very low compared to other Bank financed settlement projects with a
similar net income per family. The low cost is made possible by the exten-
sive reliance on settler self-help, the small initial on-farm investments,
and the relatively small size of the administrative organization.
7.13      Taxes would be paid on the value added of project induced
marketable production, and on goods purchased by settlers for consumption.



- 21 -
Annual tax payments made by project participants would increase from CR$ 0.1
million (US$0.02 million) in 1973 to CR$ 5.9 million (US$1.7 million) in
1990. Annex 14 compares estimated Government expenditures on the project
throughout its life with estimated revenues from taxation. This shows
that Federal, State and Municipal Governments would together recover project
costs by about 1989 and that from 1984 on annual revenues would be four
times greater than annual project costs (excluding schools and health
centers). However, as Government would experience negative cash flows
during the first 5 years of project implementation, the Bank loan's five
year grace period would apply not only to repayment of principal, but also
to interest payments by Government to the Bank (Annex 14).
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Economic Benefits.  The principal benefits of the project would be:
(a) the settlement of poor families on farms capable of producing
satisfactory incomes and providing permanent employment;
(b) the control of spontaneous settlement and the prevention of
large-scale destruction of natural resources;
(c) the demonstration of a low cost system of settlement that would
serve as a model, particularly for proposed land development
in the Amazon Basin;
(d) the provision of primary schools and health facilities for
farmers who now lack these services; and
(e) the development of an agricultural research program designed
to produce early recommendations of practical value for
agricultural development in the Northeast and Amazon Regions.
8.02      The economic rate of return of the project over its 20-year life
is estimated at 16%. Details of the analyses are at Annex 15. Major assump-
tions employed include:
(a) rice and beef yields and prices given in Chapter 7;
(b) exclusion from the cost stream of the construction and
operating costs of schools and health facilities because
Government would have to provide these anyhow; and research
and studies on the grounds that their benefits would at
least equal their costs;
(c) an opportunity cost of zero for family labor used for producing
marketed rice and beef, as this labor would not have alternative
employment;



- 22 -
(d)  exclusion of identifiable taxes and price contingencies from
the cost stream.
3.03      The main beneficiaries of the project would be farm families wlho
now live at close to subsistence levels with per capita incomes of about
Cr$ 200 - 275 (US$36 - 50) a year. Under the project, per capita income of
families producing rice and beef would increase to about Cr$ 880 (US$160)
by 1988.  This compares with estimated per capita incormies of Cr$ 320 (US$60)
in 1988 for rural families in the llortheast.
8.04      The project wvould provide full employment of about 270 days per
year for 5,200 settlers who presently work about 150 days annually.  About
26,000 persons in all would benefit.  -hile the project is small and by
itself would not have a significant direct impact on current unemployment
in the "Northeast, it would demonstrate a low cost means of creating additional
employment which could be apnlied to the settlement of the Amazon Region.
8.05      Sensitivity Analysis.  The project's economic rate of return
appears to be only moderately sensitive to the most probable unfavorable
chianges which could affect it. These are considered to be a delay of one
year in obtaining benefits, and a 10% increase in all costs. Separately,
each would reduce the economic rate of return to about 14,g. .,Iajor price
changes in rice and beef are unlikely in the near future, and projected
yields are in line with present levels, consequently it is not anticipated
that significant changes in benefits would occur. An opportunity cost of
Cr$ 1,000 per year (50% of the going wage in the project area) for incre-
mental family labor used for producing marketable rice and beef reduce
the rate of return by less than 1 percentage point.
8.06      Benefits to the Ecology.  Spontaneous uncontrolled settlement is
resulting in the large-scale destruction of the forests of the Aortheast
and the Amazon Region and the subsequent degradation of the ecology.  The
ultimate effects of deforestation and soil erosion on the ecology of the
region cannot be estimated at present. The project would demonstrate a
neans of preserving a balance between developing new land and retaining the
ameliorative effects of forest areas and pastures.
IX.  RECOI [ENLDATIONS
9.01      The assurances obtained from Government during negotiations included:
(a)  COLONE would emDloy consultants under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, for road design and to assist with tenders and
contract awards, in analyzing bids and to certify that works
were carried out according to plans and specifications (para 4.07);
(*J)  SUDELME would recruit staff and nmeet the operating expenses of
the schools, hospital and the dispensaries (para 4.14);



- 23 -
(c) The terms of reference of the studies and the selection of
experts to undertake them would be agreed by the Bank (para 4.15);
and
(d)  Road construction work would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (para 5.05). Local competitive
bidding procedures would be agreed by the Bank (para 5.05).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)  COLONE and Maranhao State would sign an agreement satisfactory
to the Bank on the procedure for issue of land titles to
settlers (para 3.10);
(b) The issuance or transfer to Maranhao and BNB of at least
40% of the share capital of COLONE (para 4.06);
(a) Maranhao State would grant project lands to COLONE at no cost
(para 4.08); and
(d) BNB would prepare the regulations and by-laws of the cooperatives
and would submit them to the Bank for its agreement (para 6.06).
9.03      A condition of disbursement of the loan funds for the improvement
of the Cocalinho mill would be the conclusion of an agreement between COLONE
and a suitable concessionaire satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.07).
9.04      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$6.7 million
repayable over 25 years including five years of grace.
June 12, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Institutions Involved with the Project
1.        Introduction.  Brazil is a very large country where central
Government has not always proved to be very efficient, partly for reasons
of sheer logistics, partly due to a shortage of skilled administrative
management and partly because of the big differences that exist between
the various provinces. To improve the situation numerous official and semi-
official agencies have been set up to implement Government policies. Their
function is to provide greater flexibility and more effective control than
is possible through a centralized government ministry, but they have the
problems that policies and procedures change frequently and agencies often
overlap in their functions and responsibilities. A more recent move has
been to centralize overall planning, but to decentralize the execution of
development plans.
2.        As far as the Alto Turi Project is concerned the two main planning
authorities are the Ministries of the Interior and Agriculture. Both have
an important development function, but both tend to operate through a
series of semi-autonomous agencies. Of these the two most important in
the Northeast are:
(a) Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE);
and
(b) The Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB).
A. Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE)
3.        Background.  SUDENE was established in December 1959, the initial
stimulus being the acute hardship experienced in 1958 due to prolonged
drought in the Northeast region. A commission was set up by Government to
report on local conditions and suggest possible solutions. The commission
issued its report in 1959; its main conclusions were:
(a) The Northeastern region was one of the most densely
populated areas of the Western hemisphere, yet the income
level was then less than US$100 per head per annum. There
was moreover a very great disparity in levels of prosperity
both within the area, and between the Northeast and the
more fortunate Centre-South;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) Economic growth was at half the rate of the Centre-South
and the position was both getting worse and becoming a
chronic condition;
(c) Government fiscal policies were not helping the situation
since they were encouraging development in the Centre-South
at the expense of the Northeast;
(d) The economy was based on agricultural exports, yet a much
greater measure of urban industrialization was required; and
(e) The agricultural sector of the economy was based largely on
subsistence production at low levels of management, a system
that was very vulnerable to disasters, such as prolonged
drought.
4.        Objectives.  The setting up of SUDENE followed the Commission's
report, its initial terms of reference being:
(a) to supervise, coordinate and control the formation and
execution of projects under the control of federal departments
in the region; and
(b) to implement projects either directly or by means of agreements,
covenants, or contracts with other agencies.
5.        Legal Status.  The enabling legislation provides SUDENE with
considerable administrative autonomy. It enables it to act independently
in its own name in legal cases, gives it the prerogatives of a public body,
and guarantees it an income of 2% of the Federal tax revenues and revenues
derived from a foreign exchange premium fund.
6.        Oranization.  SUDENE is answerable to the Ministry of the Interior.
Policy matters are decided by a "Deliberative Council" composed of:
-    The Superintendent of SUDENE;
-    The Governors of the states in which SUDENE operates;
-    A representative of the General Staff of the armed forces;
-    Representatives from every Government Ministry;
-    A representative from BNB;
-    A representative from the National Economic Development Bank;
-    The Director of the National Anti-Drought Works Department;
-    The Superintendent of the Sao Francisco Valley Superintendency;
and
-    A representative from the Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company.
7.        Within the organization there are departments, each dealing with
a separate subject, i.e. agriculture, power, transport, sanitation, industry,
human resources, etc. Headquarters are centered at Recife, with regional
offices in each province in the Northeast.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Operation.  SUDENE's main function lies in planning and coordination..
In so far as is possible it operates directly through the agencies represented
on the Deliberative Council, or alternatively it transfers the work by means
of covenants to other state or municipal organizations. It may also, and
frequently does, establish joint companies in participation with private
enterprise.
9.        Agricultural Development.  In the first years of its operations
SUDENE tended to concentrate on encouraging industrial development. Its
agricultural aims were to foster research, encourage irrigation projects,
attempt to improve the efficiency of agriculture in the more productive
areas (especially crops such as cotton, sugar cane and cacao), and improve
crop marketing and storage facilities. Various studies were initiated,
research facilities were expanded, the prod',tiun of cotton in particular
was encouraged and several irrigation schemes were begun. Later more
emphasis was placed on cooperatives and cooperative marketing, and SUDENE
was able to channel assistance from various Governments and international
agencies into development schemes. Throughout this initial period, however,
agriculture remained a field of only relatively minor interest to SUDENE.
10.       More recently it has become apparent that SUDENE's industrial
efforts, many of them essentially long term in outline, were not keeping
pace with the problems created by a rising population, chronic poverty and
ever increasing unemployment. Industrialization was proceeding apace but
the costs per person employed were high and the jobs thus created were not
enough to reduce unemployment. Hence the emphasis has shifted to further
agricultural development and specifically to land settlement. The Alto
Turi project would be in line with this change of emphasis, and, it is hoped,
would serve as a model for much larger schemes in the future.
B. Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB)
11.       Legal Status and Objectives.  BNB was established by the Federal
Government of Brazil in 1952 to assist in the economic development of the
Northeast. BNB is constituted as a limited company and, as such, is
governed by Brazilian company law and by its own statutes. All modifications
of its statutes have to be sanctioned by Presidential Decree. BNB must
comply with Brazilian banking legislation, to the extent that it is not in
contradiction with the legislation creating it, and it is subject to the
control of the Central Bank of Brazil.
12.       BNB is required by its creating legislation and by its Articles
of Association to contribute to the economic development of the Northeast
by providing financial assistance to productive enterprises in agriculture
and industry, financing certain infrastructure projects undertaken by
states and municipalities, and, in general, by conducting all necessary
commercial and investment banking activities within its area of operation.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
13.       Ownership and Organization.  BNB's share capital totalling Cr$ 140
million is owned by Federal Government (72.9%), state governments (0.9%),
municipalities (0.6%) and private shareholders (25.6%).
14.       BNB is under the general direction of the Minister of Interior but
day-to-day control is vested in the Board of Directors which comprises a
President and four directors, all of whom are full-time officers. The
President, who is the chief executive, is appointed for an indefinite time
by the President of the Republic. The Directors are elected by the General
Assembly of shareholders for a term of four years, and, since the Federal
Government holds a large overall majority in the General Assembly, the
present Directors are, in fact, nominees of the Ministry of Interior.
However, BNB's Articles of Association provide that, when non-Government
holding of BNB's share capital is 20% or more, non-Government shareholders
may elect a Director in a ballot in which Government does not participate.
Since non-Government participation now exceeds 20% of share capital the
shareholders will be entitled to elect a Director in 1973 when the term
of office of the present board expires. Each Director is responsible for
one of BNB's major departments which are: (a) Agricultural Credit (DERUR);
(b) Industrial Credit (CARIN); (c) General Credit (DERGE); (d) Financial
(DEFIN). Additionally, there are six other departments, all of them under
the direct supervision of the President, namely: (a) Internal Audit and
Inspection; (b) Internal Organization and Planning; (c) Legal; (d) Economic
studies on the Northeast (ETENE); (e) Administrative Services; and (f) Staff
Training.
15.       ETENE, the only department specifically mentioned in the legislaikoq
creating BNB 1/ not only assists BNB's operational department by its researcb
work but also fulfills a valuable public service by studying, and publishipg
its findings on the economic situation of the Northeast.
16.       Staff.  BNB's head office is in Fortaleza (see Map No. 1), and it
has 68 branches distributed throughout its area of operations. Administra-
tive and technical staff total about 3,400, of whom 670 are members of DERUR.
Of the latter, one-fifth are at head office and the remainder at branches
(each of which has an agricultural credit section). Twenty-five DERUR
staff members are regularly employed in providing assistance to cooperattves
and plans are at an advanced stage to increase substantially BNB technical
assistance to cooperatives, including the provision of management and
accounting staff to them. The calibre of staff appears to be high and there
is a good proportion of younger men at senior level. BNB attaches great
importance to staff traning and staff regularly attend courses either within
the organization or at outside institutions. BNB's course in agricultural
credit consists of two months of intensive training in agricultural credit
theory followed by one month of field work.
1/   Law No. 1649 of July 19, 1952 supplemented by Presidential Decree No.
33643 of August 24, 1953.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
17.       Controls and Audit.  Internal controls are satisfactory and manage-
ment is kept well informed of operating progress and financial conditions.
BNB's accounts are audited by Arthur Young, Clarkson, Gordan and Company
(rio) who, since assuming this responsibility in 1969, have been able to
give BNB a clean certificate without reservations.
18.       Operational Policies and Programs.  BNB's operational policies
are decided on by the Board of Directors within the broad guidelines
contained in its Articles of Association and with regard to the Federal
Governemnt's economic policy. General policies require that BNB shall not
lend more than 60% of the value of the security of its loans; in exceptional
cases and for operations against pledge of agricultural products, this limit
may be increased to 80%. Terms of loans shall not normally exceed ten years
except for loans from special long-term resources. Lending decisions
shall be made on the basis of the economic merits of projects taking into
consideration the profitability of the investment, its direct or indirect
impact on the national production, its gestation period and its benefits
to the population as a whole.  No regard shall be paid to proportional
distribution of BNB's lending activities among the states of its operational
area unless projects presented for financing simultaneously are strictly
equal in economic merit. BNB shall cooperate, whenever necessary, with
other financing institutions and preferably with Government-owned or
cooperative credit institutes. With regard to agricultural lending (other
than short-term credit) the main criteria are that a loan should enable the
farmer to put his property to more efficient use or assist him in the
introduction of new farming techniques. Loans are made for on-farm invest-
ment or for working capital and, in each case, BNB requires the farmer to
submit plans of the operation to be financed and to meet part of its cost.
19.       Among the types of agricultural investments eligible for BNB
financing are: the establishment of permanent crops including pasture;
water supply and conservation; livestock acquisition, improvement and expan-
sion; dairy farming; purchase of agricultural machinery; seed production;
installation of crop storage facilities and fencing. Working capital loans
are made mainly for livestock raising, maintenance of farm installations,
and expenses in connection with cotton growing.
20.       BNB's short-term agricultural credit is made available for the
production of annual crops and for the marketing of agricultural produce.
21.       Loans are made either directly to farmers or through agricultural
cooperatives. In accordance with a rule contained in BNB's Articles of
Association, loans to cooperatives are usually made at lower rates of interest
than direct loans to farmers for the same purpose (Table 3).
22.       Branch managers are authorized to sanction loans within limits of
Cr$ 50,000 to Cr$ 60,000 depending on the size of the branch. Sixty-eight
percent of the total number of loans made by DERUR in 1970 were for Cr$ 50,000
or less but represented less than 20% of total value of loans while 2.6% of



ANNEX 1
Page 6
the total number were Cr$ 500,000 or more but represented nearly 37% of the
total value of DERUR loans.
23.       BNB's loan resources are derived from equity (19.6%), 34/18 deposits
(55.8%)1/ , Government deposits (4.8%), foreign borrowing (8.4%), private
deposits (5.2%) and other resources (6.2%). The proportion of resources
attributable to equity grew substantially in 1969 as a result of an agree-
ment with Federal Government whereby the latter did not collect dividends on
its 72.9% of BNB share capital but left them on deposit with a view to
capitalization in 1969.
24.       In 1970, BNB's loans for agriculture totalled Cr$ 176 million
(US$37 million) of which Cr$ 151 million or 87% was lent directly to farmers
and the remainder to cooperatives either for processing and marketing of farm
produce (85%) or for on-lending to members (15%). It is noteworthy that,
during the period 1967-1970, long-term credit to cooperatives more than
doubled in real terms reflecting BNB's intention to limit administrative
costs by channelling investment credit to small farmers through cooperatives
rather than directly to individuals.
25.       Repayment terms vary according to the loan purpose (Table 4).
Interest rates vary by type of borrower, term of loan and source of
funds (Table 3). Monetary corrections, where applied, have been consistently
lower than the annual inflation rate. Variable commission rates are permitted
by Central Bank in recognition of the high cost of supervising loans in
rural areas.
26.       The ratio of overdues 2/ to total agricultural lending fluctuates
widely from year to year reflecting the very variable climatic conditions
in the Northeast region. In 1968 when farmers enjoyed a reasonable rainfall,
arrears comprised 7% of total balances whereas in 1970, a severe drought
year, arrears amounted to 17% of loans outstanding. Branch managers have
authority to extend maturity dates by up to twelve months, although such
extensions continue to be classified as overdues and the incidence of total
default is comparatively low. By end of 1970 BNB had written off 1.2% of the
total amount of agricultural loans made since it commenced business in 1954.
1/   34/18 deposits are funds received by BNB under a scheme which permits
corporate taxpayers to discount up to 50% of their corporate tax liabi-
lity for investment in new or existing agricultural, industrial or tele-
communication projects approved by SUDENE in the area under the latter's
jurisdiction. The term 34/18 originates from Article 34 of Law 3995
(12-14-1961) and Article 18 of Law 4235 (6-27-1963).
2/   Amount of principal and/or interest more than three months overdue.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
27.       Profitability.  BNB makes loans at a weighted average interest
rate which is only marginally positive in real terms and its administrative
expenses have averaged 5.2% of average assets since 1969, which is rather
high. In spite of these factors BNB has managed to earn profits above 20%
of equity (revalued annually) at the beginning of each accounting period
since 1968. This is due to BNB being able to finance the greater part of
its loans with 34/18 deposits, which are made available to BNB free of charge.
Nonetheless, and beginning in 1969 BNB has reduced substantially the rate
of growth of administrative expenses by not opening new agencies and by
reducing its staff in several categories. Past and future projected financial
conditions appear sound (Tables 1 and 2 at the end of this Annex).
28.       IBRD Loan to BNB for Industrial Dev7l_2ment.  IBRD made a loan of
US$25 million to BNB in 1969 for industrial development. The last IBRD
supervision report of June 7, 1971 stated that BNB continues to function as
an efficient institution, and that it should implement its industrial
lending program roughly as scheduled during 1972. The report mentioned
specifically, however, BNB's lack of sufficient cruzeiro resources for
implementing its medium and long term lending program beginning in 1972.
29.       Conclusions.  BNB is a well-run commercial bank doing useful work
in the development of the Northeast. It is well managed, financially sound,
and fully capable of carrying out its project responsibilities. It's only
weakness seems to be its lack of sufficent cruzeiro resources for long term
financing in the near future.
May 3, 1972






BRAZTL
ALTO TURI LAND STT?BlIIT PROJECT
Banco do Nordeste do Brasil SA
iondinssd Balance Sh.sts - Actual and Projected
(in 1969 CR$ millions)
At December 31
ACTUAL                                                           PROJECTED
196S             1969              1970         June 31, 1971                1771              1972              1973
Asoats
Cash and short term deposits                                84.3             53.3              47.9             129.4                    54.0              39.3              36.4
Short term inv.stments                                     136.6            253.4             137.7             174.2                    95.8              83.8              89.b
Receivables, accrued income, etc.                         203.3              67.0              81.3              53.5          44.0                        50.5      4        1.3
Total ihort Term Assets                           423.9             373.7             266.9             348.1                  193.8              173.6             167.1
Outstanding loans;
Domestic currency                                        972.8          1.350.7           1,139.7           1,034.7                 1,154.8           1,136.0           1,111.4
For.ign currency                                          78.6             77.)             132.7             126.4                   134.6             252.4             340.2
Total Loans                                     1,051.4           1,128.6           1,272.4           1,161.1                1.894              1,388.4           1,451.6
Sauity invsstments                                           1.2               1.4              38.7             40.0                    36.3              30.9              27.2
Fixed assets (net)                                          20.6             22.6               25.5              32.2                   30.3              27.5              25.3
Total Fixed Assets                                 21.6              24.3              64.2              72.2                   66.6               58.4              52.5
rotel Aasets                                    1.1,6.9           1,526.3           1,603.5           1,581.4                1,549.8            1,620.4           1,671.2
LiahilittJs and Bquity
34/18 deposits                                             813.2            862,9             826.4              624.5                  556.4             419.0              319.3
Other deposi6s, accounts payable
and sundry creditors                                       365.4            290.1              365.6             524.1                  507.0             550.3              570.5
r.tal Deposits and Short Term Liabilitits       1,178.6           1,153.0           1,192.0           1.168,6                 I,o63.4             969.3             889.8
Foreign currency borrowing                                  (8,3             104.3             135.2             136.6                   134.6             252.4             340.2
Dom.!aLic turren7y borrowing                                 0.2               0.)               1.3               1.1                     1.3               0.2               o.6
Total Long rerm Funds                               78.2            105.2             136.5             135,7                   135.             252.6             340.8
Share capital                                               18.4             140,.             140.o             140.0                  i40.0              140.0             140.0
Reserves, unappropriated surplus                           221.7             128.1             135.0             157.1                  210.5              258.5             300.6
Total Equity                                      240.1             268.1             275. )            297.1                   350.5             398.5             440.6
Total Lisbilitios and Esuity                    1,496.,           1,526.3           1,603.5            1,581.6                1,549.8           1 620.4           1.671,2
March 10, 1972



BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLENENT PROJECT
Banco Do Nordeste Do Brasil SA
Summarised Income and Expenditure Statements
(in 1969 cN$ millions)
At December 31
ACTUAL                                             PROJECTED
1968             1969              1970              1971              1972               1973
Income
Income from loans - interest,
commission, cormitment fees, etc                142.8             149.0             174.5             187.0             199.6             219.6
Income from deposits and investments                 6.5              12.0              20.4              18.3              17.2              16.9
other income                                         6.4               6.9               1.6               1.4               1.3               1.2
Total Income                        155.7            167.9             196.5             206.7             218.1             237.7
Expenditure
Interest And cosmissions paid                        7.3               5.9               6.3               7.8              11.4              14.3
Salaries and other administrative
expenses                                          83.5             65.8              70.0              86.2              82.0               82.6
Provision for doubtful debts                        12.4              23.0              36.3-1             7.5               8.1               8.4
Depreciation of fixed assets                         1.3               1.5               1.8               2.2               2.2               2.2
Total Expenditure                   104.5              96.2            114.4             103.7             103.7              107.5
Gross Profit                                        51.2              71.7              82.1             103.0             114.4             130.2
Provision for income taxl/                           -                 0.2               0.9               2.9               2.4               2.1
Net Profit                                          51.2              71.5              81.2             100.1             112.0             128.1
Appropriations
Dividends                                            2.8               9.6              13.7              11.3               9.4               8.2
Reserves                                            48.4              61.9              67,5              88.8             102.6             119.9
51.2             71,5              81.2             100.1             112.0              128.1
/  BNB pays income tax only on dividend distributions to shareholders other than the government.
The amount for 1968 (which is negligible) is included in administrative expenses.
21  The unusually high provision for doubtful debts in 1970 was made in anticipation of possible
substantial failures occasioned by the drought in that year.
March 14, 1972



BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTL_E1WNT PROJECT
BNB' S INTEREST RATES AND OTHER CHARGES ON AGRICULTURAL LOANS
(as at November 1971)
Interest Rates                     Comrission                Yonetary Correction
Borrower and Purpose           Loans up to      Loans above      Loans up to   Loans above   Loans up to   Loans above
50 X MS/         50 X MS          50 X MS    5I    X MS         50 X MS        5° X Ms
Un to or.e year maturity
indivicdual borrowers - all
purpcses                        12% per annum  12% per annum   1  per annum  5% per annum            Nil            Nil
A,gricultural cooperatives -
for marketing of nembers'
oroc.uce                              #12  per annum                             3% per annum                        Nil
Agricultural cooperatives -
for on-lendIng to members                       /9 per annum                           Nil                           Nil
&m#-er one year. mrturity
LhKjividual borrowers - all                                    4
pulposes                         3% per annum   7% per annww-           Nil            Nil       3C$ per  annum  :L   per annum
ug .cultural cooperatives -
for rarketirg of r.arlers'
prodce                                           7% per annum                          Nil                        8% per annum
4gricultural cooperatives -
for on-lending to members                        5  per annumy                         Nil                       lj% per annum
Special financing 3/
Indivi6upl borrowers for on-
farm, investnents                7% per annum   7% per-annum           Nil             Nil            Nil            Nil
ni-dvic;ual borrowiers for                                                                                            N
lan  purchtse                   12% per annum  12% per annum            Nil            Nil            N              Nil
1/  ?'ininum mcnthly salary in the State of Ganabara. Adjusted annually by Government and used as indicator by
C'-rtral Bank in determining maximum interest rates.  Adjusted in May 1971 at CR$ 225.60 (US$ 41) per month.
2/  Lc.-s of less than 50 A MS are not made to cooperatives.
>a  cecil program for development of agriculture in the Northern and Northeastern regions of Brazil for
which ^cinl financing is provided by Central Bank.
.-t    t       ;- -rrt, prn~r3.-,  dth  fovern certain  ian   inistsain the Northeand Northeast i     be 
:i~t~r inI~uct -th Governan, rt paying an administration charge to the executing bank..



ANNEX 1
Table 4
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
BNB's Repayment Terms for Various Lines of Agricultural Credit
Purpose
Investment                                           Repayment Period
Erection of Farm Buildings                10 years including 2 years grace
Water Storage and Irrigation              10 years including 3 years grace
Establishment of Permanent Crops           8 years including 3 years grace
Pasture Improvement                        5 years including 2 years grace
Purchase of Breeding Stock                 5 years including 2 years grace
Dairy Development                          5 years including 9 months grace
Herd Increase                              5 years including 2 years grace
Purchase of Machinery                      5 years including 2 years grace
Purchase of Transport Animals              5 years with no grace period
Fencing                                    5 years including 2 years grace
Poultry Development                        5 years with no grace period
Other On-Farm Investments                  5 years including 2 years grace
Current Expenditures
Production of Annual Crops                 2 years
Maintenance of Farm Buildings              2 years
Purchase of Fertilizers                    2 years
Cattle Rearing                             2 years
Livestock Maintenance                      1 year
Purchase of Poultry Feed                   1 year
Extraction Activities (Palm Oil, etc.)   9 months
Fattening of Beef Cattle                   9 months
Special Financing 
Land Purchae                              12 years including 2 years grace
On-Farm Investments                        8 years including 3 years grace
/1   Special programs for development of agriculture in the Northern and
Northeastern regions of Brazil for which special financing is provided
by Central Bank.
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in the Project Area
A. Present Agricultural Pattern
1.        Cropping.  The main crop grown is dry land rice, interspersed
with maize in some areas. Rice is grown mainly as a cash crop. Closer to
the homestead semi-permanent and permanent crops such as cassava, bananas,
pineapples, mangoes and citrus are grown to meet the subsistence needs of the
family and occasionally for sale.
2.        The average settler cultivates between 3 and 4 ha a year.  A survey
carried out by Hunting Technical Services in 1969 and 1970 showed that the
average farmer cleared 3.3 ha of primary forest and 0.5 ha of secondary
forest per annum, a total of 3.8 ha of clearing per family. The survey also
showed that of the 3.8 ha cropped, 3.7 ha was under rice or interplanted rice,
and only 0.1 ha was under other crops such as groundnuts and beans. The
reason for this is that rice finds a ready market and offers the best return
for the labor available, i.e. the family's labor.
3.        The settler does not normally employ labor.  The average family
totals 5 persons, comprising a man and his wife and 3 children. This provides
sufficient labor to operate the normal holding because, on average, 3 ha of
rice require 210 man-days of labor and 1 ha of subsistence, 100 man-days.
4.        The average yield of rice after primary forest is 1,800 kg/ha and
even after secondary forest yields of 1,500 kg/ha are obtained. These yields
are higher than the average yield of 1,300 kg/ha for Maranhao State as a
whole, but this is due to the previous existence of virgin forest and to the
much higher and more reliable rainfall in the project area. Yields of maize
are low (750 kg/ha) and groundnuts relatively high at 2,500 kg/ha (unshelled)
but neither crop is widely grown.
5.        Livestock.  Most of the existing cattle in the area are owned by
merchants who form part of the second wave of settlement. The cattle are
generally Zebu or Zebu X (Gir) and are hardy species well suited to the area.
Calf mortality is high (14%), hence the current weaning rate of 60%, but the
death rate in adult cattle is reasonably low at around 2%. In some cases
pastures are planted for livestock, particularly Hyperrenia rufa, but
generally speaking the cattle browse on rough pasture induced by fire.
6.        Diseases in adult animals are not prevalent, the most common being
Foot and Mouth, Black Quarter and Anthrax. A vaccine for these last two



ANNEX 2
Page 2
diseases is readily available at low cost in the area, and is commonly used
by the farmers. Vaccination for Foot and Mouth is being carried out in
Maranhao State, but it is not economically important in the project area.
7.        From a survey of 38 farms close to the project area with herds
varying from 6 to 500 head of cattle, and where half the pasture was part
improved and the balance unimproved bush, the following production indices
were established:
Hectares/animal                2.5
Calf mortality                14.0%
Adult mortality                 1.5%
Effective calving             60.0%
Culling                       12.0%
Production indices assumed for the project as well as the typical herd
development model are given in the Table at the end of this Annex. The
corresponding settler rice production patterns are given in Annex 12 for
settlers under traditional conditions and under the project.
B. Future Agricultural Pattern
8.        The average settler would maintain one or two ha of subsistence such
as cassava, fruit trees, etc. and in addition would clear 3 ha of forest
annually for 12 years and plant this to rice. Additionally, grass seed
would be made available to the farmer interested in producing beef. He would
undersow this in his rice and the following year he would have pasture avail-
able for livestock. Sufficient credit would be made available to purchase
2 cows and 1 yearling bull for the settler's first year's pasture. In the
second year he would undersow a further 3 ha of pasture (obtaining seed from
his existing pasture) and credit would be available to purchase 2 more cows.
Thereafter he would plant 3 ha of grass each year up to a maximum of 36 ha;
the natural herd increase from the original cattle purchases would be suffi-
cient to stock the pasture available without any further purchases (Table at
the end of this Annex for projections).
9.        When the holding has been completely cleared the farmer would rely
mainly on cattle as his source of income and would reduce cultivation to only
1 ha of rice annually, in addition to the 1 or 2 ha of subsistence crops.
Farmers who do not take credit would cultivate 3 ha of primary forest for
about 12 years and continue with the cultivation of secondary forest at a
reduced yield (Annex 12).
May 3, 1972



BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
HERD DEVELOPMENT MODEL
Years of Settlement                  1    2    3       4       5      6        7       8        9       10       11       12      13       14       15      16       17       18       19-20
Bulls purchased                          1.0
Cows purchased                           2.0  2.0
Bulls                                     1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0       1.0     1.0      1.0       1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
Total cows                                2.0  4.0    4.7    4.8    5.9       6.3     7.0      7.8      8.8    10.0    11.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0            12.0
Calves weaned                            1.5  2.5    2.4    2.9    3.6        3.8     4.2      4.7      5.3      6.0      6.6     7.2      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2
1   2 year old heifer6                        0.7    1.1    1.1    1.4        1.7     1.8      2.0      2.2      2.5     2.8      3.2      3.5      3.4     3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4
1   2 year old steers                         0.7    1.2    1.1    1.4        1.8     1.9      2.9      2.3      2.6     2.9      3.2      3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5      3.5       3.5
2 - 3iyear old steers                                 0.6    1.1    1.0       1.3     1.7      1.8      1.9      2.2      2,5     2.8      3.1      3.4     3.4      3.4      3.4       3.4
Replacements available                                0.7    1.1    1.1       1.4     1.7      1.8       2.0     2.2      2.5     2.8      3.1      3,4     3.3      3.3      3,3       3.3
Cull sales                                                    1.0             1.0     1.0      1.0       1.0     1.0      1.5      1.8     3,1      3,4     3.3      3.3      3.3       3.3
Steer sales                                                   0.6    1.1      1.0      1.3     1.7       1.8     1.9      2.2      2.5     2.8      3.1      3.4     3.4      3.4       3.4
Net sales (head)                                              1.6    1.1      2.0     2.3      2.7       2.8     2.9      3.7     4.3      5.9      6.5      6.7     6.7      6.7       6.7
Value of sales (CR$ 500/head)                               800.0  550.0 1,000.0 1,150,0 1,350.0  1,400.0 1,450.0 1,850.0 2,150.0 2,950.0 3,250.0 3,350.0 3,350.0 3,350.0 16,350.0
Head livestock                           4.5  8.9   11.0   12.0   14.3    15.9    17.6    19.3          21.5    24,3    26.8    29.4    30.3    30.5    30.5    30.5    30.5           30.5
Hlectares pasture                        3.0  6.0    9.0   12.0   15.0    18.0    21.0    24.0          27.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0           30.0
(Value of herd year 20   CR$ 13,000)             w
Calving: percentage at weaning 75% for in calf purchased cows, 50% years three and four, 6B% thereafter.
Deaths:   3% years two to  five, and 2% thereafter on all stock, except for weaners.
Bulls:    replaced by bull calves bred on farm.
Value of sales; CR$ 500 per carcass (approximately 170 kg carcass weight at about CR$ 3 per kg).
June 12, 1972






ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Roads
1.        Present Situation.  The federal highway, BR-316 which traverses
the project area, is linked to the road system of the Northeast and, by early
1973, will reach Belem, the most important city and port of the Amazon (Map
1). It has a gravel surface of 6 m on a 8 m embankment, but the section
in the project area has poor visibility on the crests with some drainage
structures partially damaged by the last floods. There are plans to improve
the road alignment and to provide an asphalt surface as traffic develops.
Present average daily traffic is about 50 vehicles per day (vpd).
2.        About 110 km of access roads with a surface width of 4 m on a 6 m
roadway provide communication between the SUDENE settlements in the Ze Doca
area South of the Turiacu river (Map 2). These roads, which carry some 51
vpd were poorly engineered, lack proper drainage and large sections have
been damaged by floods. The proposed project includes upgrading and re-
aligning the important sections of these roads. About 44 km of undeveloped
tracks, usable only in the dry season, connect spontaneous settlements in
the project area.
3.        Project Roads.  The project provides for the construction of 256 km
of low-cost all-weather roads and 49 km of unengineered tracks, and for the
upgrading of 80 km of existing roads to provide access from BR-316 to both
the old and new settlements.
4.        The layout of the road network is shown in Map 2.  Farm access
roads would be spaced at 6 km intervals based on experience of the distance
settlers would be willing to travel away from a road to develop farm holdings.
Farmers prefer to live on their holdings but close to an access road. Each
holding would have a depth of 2,500 metres and a road frontage of 150 metres.
This shape of holding, though long and narrow, is satisfactory for the type
of production envisaged.
5.        Farm access roads would carry about 50 vpd during the peak period
of rice production while the penetration roads would carry about 200 vpd.
6.        Design Standards.  The following types of roads would be constructed
under the project:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a)  Penetration roads:  22 km, with 4 m gravel surface on a
6 m roadway and a right of way of 20 m. The design speed
would be 55 km/hr in undulating terrain and 40 km/hr in
broken or hilly terrain. Good laterite is available close
to the proposed alignments and good timber for bridges is
available in the project area. Construction costs, based
on unit and total prices for roads recently built in
Maranhao State would be about Cr$ 82,500 (US$15,000)/km;
(b)  Farm access roads:  234 km, with a gravel surface of 3 m on
a 4 m embankment and a right-of-way of 20 m.  Passing bays
would be provided every kilometre to reduce accident hazards.
The design speed would be 30 km/hr and the construction costs
are estimated at Cr$ 55,000 (US$10,000)/km;
(c)  Existing SUDENE roads:  80 km, with a 4 m on a 6 m embankment.
The improvements in alignment and drainage structures are
estimated to cost Cr$ 38,500 (US$7,000)/km; and
(d)  Access trails:  49 km, unengineered and to follow the easiest
routes. These roads would be built by the settlers with
the advice and supervision of SUDENE. An amount of Cr$ 5,500
(US$1,000)/km would be provided for very simple drainage
structures.
5.        Construction.  Although international competitive bidding would be
followed it is unlikely that the small size of the project in each year would
make it attractive to foreign contractors. These would also have to compete
with local firms, four of which already work in the project area.
6.        Road construction in the project area would be restricted to the
dry months of July to December. To ensure that roads are built on schedule
it would be necessary to select contractors and complete detailed engineering
for each year's program by June of that year.
7.        Maintenance.  Maintenance of the project roads would be the
responsibility of Departmento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (DNER). Average
maintenance cost of the penetration roads is estimated at Cr$ 2,200 (US$400)/m
per year, and of farm access roads Cr$ 1,650 (US$300)/km per year. It is
assumed that maintenance would start one year after road completion and that
annual maintenance costs at full development in project year 5 would average
Cr$ 0.7 million (Annex 16, Table).
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Credit
1.        Credit Requirements.  Marketing credit would be required by the
cooperatives to cover the period between the purchase of rice from settlers
and its eventual sale; and investment credit would be needed by individual
settlers for the purchase of cattle and fencing wire.
2.        Credit Supply and Administration.  Credit would be provided by
Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB) using funds provided by Government for
investment credit, and from its own resources for marketing credit. BNB is
not prepared, because of the relatively high costs involved 1/, to open
agencies in the project area and would rather disburse and administer credit
through managed credit and marketing cooperatives which it would establish
among project participants.
3.        Managed cooperatives would be formed, initially at Ze Doca and at
Nova Olinda, by BNB on the basis of BNB's previous and successful experience
with them elsewhere. BNB would provide and finance staff from its Rural
Credit Department to fill the posts of General Manager, Accountant and
Credit Officer of each cooperative. The general accounts of the cooperatives
would be maintained at BNB Head Office in Fortaleza. It is estimated that
recurrent costs of administration including salaries would amount to about
CR$ 216,000 a year. BNB would provide additional staff at peak seasons to
assist both in the disbursement and recovery of credit and in the payment of
rice deliveries at a cost of about CR$ 30,000 annually. It is expected that
the cooperatives would be able to become independent by year 7 of the project
implementation, when they should be running properly. However, BNB would not
relinquish its control until it was satisfied that a cooperative was compe-
tent to manage its own affairs.
4.        Marketing Credit.  Marketing credit requirements would be CR$ 650,000
in the first year of the project, rising by annual increments of about CR$ 1.3
million to about CR$ 4.7 million in the fourth year of the project and
thereafter. Rice would be purchased by the cooperatives at village stores
on pre-determined dates throughout the harvest season (June-August). Each
store would be attended by an Extension Officer (seconded to the cooperative
for the purpose) and a cooperative official. Rice would be received from
the individual settler by the Extension Officer who would issue a receipt for
the amount of rice delivered. The settler would present the receipt to the
1/   The law requires much more staffing and higher compensation for staff
for agencies than is the case with cooperatives.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
attending cooperative official who would pay the settler an amount equivalent
to 70% of the value of the rice delivered at the Government support price.
The remaining 30% of the value of the rice would be credited to the settler's
rice delivery account following final disposal of the year's crop by the
cooperative. The settler would be permitted to withdraw this balance in
cash after deduction of any outstanding investment credit repayments or other
obligations.
5.        Funds to meet the initial 70% payment for rice delivered by
settlers would be provided to the cooperatives by BNB as a revolving credit.
This credit would be available for the six months in each year in which
rice purchases or sales would be made. The interest rate would be 12% per
annum, as Government remains firmly committed to credit subsidization to
promote industrial and agricultural development. Proceeds of rice sold by
the cooperative would first be paid into the society's account with BNB from
which BNB would deduct any repayments due by the cooperative.
6.        Investment Credit.  Total investment credit requirements would be
CR$ 10 million over the project's development period. Investment credit,
which would be required by settlers who wished to have livestock, would be
provided as follows under special BNB lending rates for small settlers:
Terms         Interest Rate
From Government to BNB             non-repayable              zero
From BNB to cooperatives           5 years (including
2 year grace period)      3
From cooperatives to settlers    5 years (including 2
year grace period)        7
7.        In about November of the second year of project participation,
the settler would need 600 m of fencing wire costing CR 300. The procedure
would be as follows:
(a) the cooperative would supply the settler with a purchase order
for wire to the value of CR$ 300 addressed to a supplier.
Suppliers would be appointed by the cooperatives on the results
of a tender competition, and the price of wire would be standard
and agreed between the suppliers and the cooperatives;
(b) the settler's rice delivery account would be debited with
CR$ 60 (representing the settler's contribution of 20% of the
cost of the wire) and his loan account would be debited with
the balance of CR$ 240.
8.        In the following January or February the settler would purchase
two cows and one yearling bull from one of the project holding grounds at
a total cost of about CR$ 1,450. The procedure would be as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the settler would select his cattle and would authorize the
cooperative to debit his rice delivery account with 20% of
the total cost of the cattle, and his credit account with the
remaining 80%. He would also sign a chattel mortgage in
favour of the cooperative which would include the purchased
cattle which would be identified by ear-punched serial numbers.
9.        Beginning in the following November a similar procedure would
be followed by which the settler would purchase an additional 300 m of
fencing wire costing about CR$ 150 and two more cows costing about CR$ 1,200.
10.       The settler's 20% contribution to the livestock investment in
each year would be deducted from the delayed .y...ent of 30% of the proceeds
of his previous year's rice deliveries (see para 4).
11.       Repayment of the investment credit would commence in the middle
of the fourth year of project participation when the first repayment of about
CR$ 342 would be deducted from that year's delayed payment (the 30%
retained by the cooperative).  In the two subsequent years when repayment
instalments of about CR$ 588 and CR$ 554 would be required, CR$ 400 would
be recovered from the initial rice payment and the balance from the delayed
payment.  In the seventh year the final repayment instalment of about ZR$ 225
would be recovered from the delayed rice payment.
12.       Repayments would not be indexed to either the cost of living or
beef prices; thus the real burden of credit repayment on the net amount
received by the settler for his rice deliveries would be influenced by the
degree of inflation in the years following his obtaining investment credits.
13.       Provision for Bad Debts.  The COLONE cattle holding grounds would
generate net benefits of about CR$ 40/head of cattle sold to settlers or a
total of CR$ 277,000 over project year 1 through 5 and CR$ 96,000 in project
year 6 after deducting research recurrent costs. These funds, which include
those resulting from rice sales would be deposited with BNB on the account
of the cooperatives as a provision for bad debts representing about 4% of
the total volume of lending for cattle purhcases under the project, which is
well in line with BNB's past experience.
May 3, 1972






ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Forestry
Present Situation
1.        Historically, forests have been cleared and burned in the coloniza-
tion areas of Brazil with little or no economic return being realized on the
wealth of standing timber; this applies to the project area, where only one
very small mill extracts an insignificant amount of the standing timber
available.
2.        In 1970 a forest inventory of 200,000 ha in the northern part of
the project area (Map 2) was made by the Curitiba National Forestry School.
Its findings are summarized below:
Volume                 Total Volume
m3/ha            millions of m3/200,000 ha
(a)  Exportable wood                  6.4                          1.3
(b) Suitable for interior
construction                  10.3                          2.1
(c) Suitable for exterior
construction and rail-
road sleepers                 11.4                          2.3
Sub-Total                 28.1                           5.7
(d) Possible commercial
value                         31.8                          6.4
(e)  No commercial value             95.3                         19.1
Sub-Total                127.1                         25.5
Total                    155.2                          31.2
3.        The average value per m3 of the standing timber is about CR$ 30
for categories (a), (b) and (c). Thus the forst has a total value of about
CR$ 170,000,000 (US$30 million).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Relatively little is known, however, about present and future
marketing opportunities for different types of lumber in Brazil. Present
information relates mainly to the needs of the local building industry and
to railway sleepers. There is only scanty information on export possibili-
ties and on the utilization of better quality timbers. Thus it is not
possible to justify the immediate establishment of large scale milling
operations in the project area.
Proposed Program
5.        The forestry program would be supervised by COLONE's senior forester.
The main emphasis of the forestry program would be an in-depth study on
marketing of timber products and on the feasibility of major investments in
logging and milling facilities (Annex 7).
6.        Present conditions, however, justify an improvement and minor
expansion of the Cocalinho mill for a total investment of CR$ 838,000 in
project years 1 and 2. This would permit manufacturing 84,000 railway ties
and 2,100 m3 of sawn lumber per year with a recurrent cost of CR$ 0.6 million
(Annex 8, Table 5). Financial results for the projected mill concessionaire
and for ADC would be very attractive (Annex 13).
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Schools and Health Centers
Introduction
1.        The provision of primary schools and of basic health services
is an integral and essential part of any settlement project since it has
a strong positive influence on the settlcr's decision of whether or not
to reside permanently in the settlement area.
2.        Primary schools have been in existence at Ze Doca for some
time, and in nine existing villages in the project area the people have
recently built primary schools on a self-help basis. Teaching staff for
these latter schools are provided by SUDENE. A small hospital was constructed
in Ze Doca township in 1964, and is adequate to serve the population within
a radius of 20 to 30 km. Resident Hospital staff include a doctor, a dentist
and several nurses; staff are paid by SUDENE. An anti-malarial unit based
in Ze Doca carries out the regular spraying of settler's houses to control
mosquitoes.
Proposed Development
3.        Schools.  A primary school would be constructed in each village
area to serve the village's 60 families. It is estimated that each village
would have to cater for about 100 children of primary school age. A school
of about 140 m2 and two teachers' houses would be needed for these children.
The school would operate on a two-shift basis. Both the school and the
two houses would be erected by the villagers on a self-help basis, with ADC
providing roofing, doors, windows and school benches at no cost to the
settlers.
4.        Sixty-two new schools would be needed.  The cost of the materials
required for each school and its two teachers' houses is estimated at
CR$ 14,000. The construction schedule would be as follows:
Project Year                         Number of Schools
1
2                                       6
3                                      16
4                                      20
5                                      20



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        During the first ten years SUDENE would recruit and finance all
necessary teaching staff. Thereafter the State Government would assume
this responsibility. This agreement would be in line with present procedures
agreed between the Federal (SUDENE) and State Governments for similar
projects. No shortage of teaching staff is anticipated.
6.        Health.  A new hospital would be built at Nova Olinda (Map 2).
The construction program would include a small hospital (300 m2), a doctor's
house (150 m2) and a residence for nurses (150 m2).  Overall construction
costs are estimated at CR$ 300/m2. In addition, CR$ 70,000 would be
required for hospital equipment. The hospital would be constructed in
project year three and including equipment would cost CR$ 250,000. Staff
recruitment, salaries and recurrent costs would be the responsibility of
SUDENE and after 10 years, of the State Government, as is customary for this
type of development.
7.        As an adjunct to the hospital, ten dispensaries would be built in
the project area. Each dispensary would be 20 m2 and would have attachecf a
small house for the dispenser (50 m2). It is estimated that each dispensary
unit would cost CR$ 7,000. In project years two, three and four there would
be built three, three and four dispensaries respectively. Staff would be
paid by SUDENE which would also meet operating costs.
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Studies
Timber Products
1.        An in-depth study of the timber industry in Brazil is deemed
essential for a rational exploitation of forests in the Northeast and the
Amazon Basin during a second phase of land settlement in these areas. This
is particularly important in view of the rapidly accelerating pace of
settlement in the Amazon due to the construction of the Transamazonian and
other highways, which would result in a very substantial waste of timber if
forests were burnt indiscriminately as in the past. The study would be
undertaken by a team of consultants composed of a logger, a sawmiller, a
timber marketing expert, and an economist for a total of 48 man-months.
2.        The proposed terms of reference for the study would be as follows:
(a) local and foreign supply and demand conditions for
timber in the Northeast and in the Amazon Basin;
(b) remanufacturing facilities;
(c)  financial study of timber production; and
(d) sources of finance for logging and milling investments.
The study is estimated to cost about CR$ 1.1 million (US$200,000).
Rice and Beef Marketing
3.        Rice and beef production are mostly undertaken by smallholders and
their marketing is in the hands of a few middlemen and of slaughterhouse
operators, respectively, to the detriment of both producers and consumers.
An in-depth study of conditions in both industries would be undertaken by
two separate teams of experts for a total of 48 man-months.
4.        The proposed terms of reference for the studies would be as
follows:
(a) present and projected supply and demand conditions in
the Northeast, the Amazon Basin and the rest of the
country, with specific reference to export possibilities
in the case of beef;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) marketing channels;
(c) structure of financing; and
(d) possible alternatives to present marketing and
financing arrangements.
The studies would cost approximately CR$ 440,000 (US$80,000).
Preparation of a Second Stage Settlement Project
5.        This project preparation would be undertaken by consultants under
the direction of SUDENE at an approximate cost of US$20,000.
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 8
Table 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETrLENENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(CR$ '000)
US$ '000
Years             1973    1974    1975    1976   1977    Total  Equivalent
1. Administration
COLONE operating       960   1,605   1,617   1,674  1,565   7,421          1,349
COLONE capital         317      387      232        5       5      946       172
BNB operating          246      246      246      246    246   1,230         224
Subtotal           1,523   2,238   2,095   1,925  1,816   9,597    1,745
2. Road Construction   3,968   7,935   7,935          -       -    19,838    3,607
3. Land Surveys             143     297      286      264    -         990       180
4. On-Farm Investments
- Cattle               -        943   2,736   3,505  3,300  10,484    1,906
* Wire                         195      503      593    545   1,836         334
Subtotal             -      1,138   3,239   4,098  3,845  12,320    2,240
5. Incretnental Market-
ing Credit             683   1,417   1,365   1,260    -         4,725        859
6. Research and Hold-
ing Grounds            100      100       61      -       -        261        47
7. Forestry                -        473      365      -       -        838       152
8. Schools and Health
Centres
- Schools              -         84      224      280    280       868       158
- Health Centres       -         21      271       28    -         320        58
Subtotal             -        105      495      308    280   1,188         216
9. Studies               1,100      550      -        -       -      1,650       300
TOTAL          7,517  14,253  15,841   7,855  5,941  51,407    9,346
10. Contingencies
- Physical             376      713      792      393    297   2,591         467
- Price                451   1,762   3,026   2,062  2,009   9,310    1,693
Subtotal             827   2,745   3,818   2,455  2,306  11,881         2,160
Total Project Costs 8,344  16,728  19,659  10,310  8,247  63,288   11,506
12. Capitalized Interest
on IBRD Loan           187      735   1,468   2,145  1,660   6,195    1,126
GRAND TOTAL          8,531  17463  21,127  12,455  9,907  69,483   12,632
May 3, 1972



B 8AZ IL
ALTO TURI IAND SETTLDMST PI>RJEOT
PROJECT ADmINISTRATION COSTS
CE$ I 000
No. Units          Unit cost        1973          1974         1975          1976          1977         Total         Total
Item        Unit      At Peak Year                                                                                                          us$ twOO
A. CAPITAL IT73MS
hiOD75D Altt7O;rCES
4 Semiir ex.ecuttve houses No.             4               45.0              9D             90            -             -             -           180
7 Professional horses      No.             7               25.0              5D            100            25           -             -            175            -
14 TechnicEa houses          No.            14              IL.              142             56            98            -             -           196
12  Jwnior houses            No.            12               5.0              10             20            30            -             -            60             -
17  Offices                  No.            17                 -              20             16            59            -             -            95            -
Subtotal
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                        212            282           212            _             -            706           -
IU-reep-8                                   ~~~~~~~17.0        85             85                         -                          170 
Office equipment                                                -             20             20            20             5             5            70
ToTAL CAPITAL                                                           317            387           232             5             5          946           172
B. OPERATING COSTS
H5ADQUA FKA-s- STAFF
1 Director               Manyears           45             65,D               33            65            65            65           65            293           -
I Senior engineer                          3.5             40.0              20             40            40            40           -             140           -
1  Senior surveyor          e              3.5             40.0              20             40            40            40            -            140           -
1  Senior accountant        e              4.5             40.0              20             40            40            40            40           180           -
1  Senior foreeter                          4.5             40.0             20             40            40            40            40           180           -
1  Marketing officer        "4.5                            32.0             16             32            32            32            32           144           -
6  Junior accountants       "             34                8.0              24             48            48            48            32           200           -
1  Draftsmanr                               3.5             8.o 0                            8             8             8            -             29
6  Clerks                                 27.2               6,o             19             39            39            39            34           163
3 Drivers                   r             15                L4.0             1              12            12            12           12             60
182           364           364           364           255        1,529            278
RESEAARCI AND 80LDING GROMUNDS STAFF
1  Senior agronormist    Manyears          4.5              40.-             20             40            4O            40           40           180
1  Junior agronomist        r4*5                           32,0              16             32            32            32            32          1414           -
I  Junior veterinarian      "              4.5             32.0              16             32            32            32            32          144            -
I  Holding groun4 manager                  4.5              32.0             16             32            32            32            32          14h14
2  Stock buyers                            9                32.0             32             64            64            64            64          288             -
1  Foreman                  "              4.5               1.0o             4              8             8             8             8            36
2  Field assistants                        9                 5,0              5             10            10            10            10            145
4  Clerks .                               18                 6.s8            13             26            26            26            26           117
2  Drivers                  5              9                 4.0 °4                          8             6             8             8            36
126           252           252           252           252        1,134           206.2
EXTENSION STAFF
2  Area managers            5              9                40.0             14o            80            Bo            so            80           360
5  Agronomists             n              17                32.0             32             96           128           160           160           576
26  Technicians             "              82.5             19.0              79            202           299           4914          494         1,568
16  Clerks                  "              52                 6.5              13            39            78           104           104           358
5  Drivers                 ..             19                 4.0              8             12            16            20            20            76
172           429           601           858           858         2,918           530.6
NXTE1iSIal4 AND PASIORE FEXPERTS
Saiaries                  M9AnyeArs        14                60              240            240            120           -             -             _
Travel                       _-                                -               60             60            30
Housing                     No.             2                  _               60            60             30
Othez                       _                                  -               40            40             20
-D°°                  4°°           200           -                         ,000           181.8        
LOCAL STAFF SUPPOUT COSTS                                                                    1               0
&Office espenses                                               _               80            160          200           200           200           840           152.7
TOTAL RECURRIEIT                                                        960.         1,605         1,617         1,674         1,565        7,421         1,349.3
C. TOTAL GhPITAL 0  RECURReET 1111S1                                            1,277          1,992         1,849         1,679        1,570         8,367         1,521.3
June 12, L972



BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLE4ENT PROJECT
ROAD COSTS
Total          CR$ '000
ITEM                              km of    Unit cost      1973       1974        1975        1976       1977        Total      Total
roads   per km CF$                                                                        US$ '000
A. CONSTRUCTION
(Capital items)
1. ALTO TURI AREA
Secondary roads                                   22.0    82,500.0       363.0      726.0       726.0        -           -        1,815.0    330.0
Access roads                                     190.0    55,000.0    2,090.0    4,180.0    4,180.0           -          -       10,450.0  1,900.0
Tracks                                            41.0      5,500.0       45.1       90.2        90.2         -          -          225.5     41.0
Total Alto Turi                            253.0                  2,498.1    4,996.2    4.996.2         -           -      12,490.5  2,271.0
2. ZE DOCA AREA
Access roads                                      44.0    55,000.0       484.0      968.0       968.0         -          -        2,420.0    440.0
Tracks                                             8.0     5,500.0         8.8       17.6        17.6         -          -           44.0       8.0
SUDENE roads                                      80.0    38,500.0       616.0    1,232.0    1,232.0          -          -       -3,080.0    560.0
Total Ze Doca                              132.0                 1,108.8    2,217.6    2,217.6          -           -        5,544.0  1,008.0
Sub-total                                                        3,606.9    7,213.8    7,213.8          -           -      18,034.5  3,279.0
+ 107 supervision                                                           360.7      721.4       721.4         -                   1,803.5    327.9
TOT.AL ROAD CONSTRUCTION                     385.0                 3,967.6   7,935.2    7,935.2           _          -       1938380, 3.6o6,2
B. MAINTENANCE
( Recurrent Items)
1. ALTO TURI                                                                 _           51.3      200.4      354.2      387.7         993.6    180.7
2. ZE DOCA                                                                   -           71.5      208.0      262.9      269.4         811.8    147.6
TOTAL M4AINTENANCE                                                        -          122.8      408.4      617.1       657.1       1,805.4    328.3       x
June 12, 1972



BRAZIL
ALTO-TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
RESRCH1 / AND ROLDING GROUND COSTS
CR$ '000
Item                            1973        1974          1975         1976          1977          Total         Total
US$  o000
A. CAPITAL ITEMS
21 DOCA STATION
Dip and cattle cnish                   20.0           -            -20.0
Cattle housing, etc                     -            20.0          5.0           -            -           25.0           -
Fencing                                 6.o           5.0          -             -            -            11.0          -
Water facilities                       10.0          10.0          -             -            -            20.0           -
Tractor and equipment                  20.0          24.0          6.o           -            -            50.0          -
Experimental equipment                  -             -           10.0           -            -            10.0          -
Bush clearing                          40.0          40.0          -             -            -            80.0          -
Reseecing                               1.5           1.0          -             -            -             2.5          -
Total                             97.5         100.0         21.0           -            -          218.5          39.7
AIXTO TURI
Fencing and crush                       2.5           -            -             -            -             2.5           0.5
NOVA OLINDA
Hush clearing                           -             -            2.0           -            -             2.0           -
Cattle housing                          -             -            6.o           -            -             6.o           -
Store and office                        -             -            5.0           -            -             5.0          -
Fencing                                 -             -            6.5           -            -             6.5           -
Watering facilities                      -            -           17.0           -             -           17.0           -
Tools                                    -            -            3.5           -            -             3.5           -
Total                              -             -           40.0           -            -            40.0           7.3
TOTAL CAPITAL ITEMS              100.0         100.0         61.0           -            -           261.0          47.5
B. RECURRENT ITEMS 2/
ALL STATIONS
Water supply                             -            5.0           5.0          5.0           5.0         20.0           -
Weeding and slashing                    10.0         20.0          15.0          5.0           -           50.0           -
Minerals                                 -            5.0          5.0           5.0           5.0         20.0           -
Repairs/renewals                         -            8.o          8.o           8.0          8.o          32.0           -                   ,3>
Tractor                                 10.0         10.0          10.0          5.0           5.0         40.0           -
Labor                                   60.0         60.0          60.0         60.0          60.0        300.0           -                   D X
Rice harvest                            20.0         10.0         10.0           -             -           40.0           -                   - co
Livestock retention                      -            6.o           6.o          6.o           6.o         24.0           -
Purchase of bulls                        -            2.0          -             5.0           -            7.0           -
Purchase of cows                         -          220.0          -             -            -           220.0           -
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS            l0O.0         346.0        119.0          99.0          89.0        753.0         136.9
1/ Fxcluding staff costs.
2/  These costs are more tnaxi r ecovered through rcvcnues generated by the holding grounds during the development period-
JuLne 12, 1972



ANNEX 8
BRAZIL                                           Table 5
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PWEJET
LOOGINO AND MILLING FACILITIES COSTS
(CR 4
Tear                            1974          1975          1976 and 1977
Cost          Cost    Unit Cost  Annual Cost
INEYSMIfTS
IRPEOV3MENTS TO MILL
Infeed Skids                       t,50°
300 Kw - 30 Xe Cat, D3-46        170,600
Carriage Drive                    11,000
Bandmill Drive                     8,250         -           -
Rollcases                         27,500          -          -
Trie Saws (2-24")                 27,500         -           -
Electrical at CR4 275/h.p.        49,450                     -
Fork Lift                         30,000
Services (Air Compressor)          8,250          -
Log Storage Facilities            27,500         -
Installation 20% Mach.            72,300
Freight                            5,500
Jeeps (2)                         34,000         -           -
Subtotal      473,350         -           -
LOGING E9UIPMENT
3 Chain Saws                        -           7,5°°        -
Timberjack                          -         137,500        -
Tractor                             -         130,000        -
7 1/2-ton Truck                     -          90,000        -
Subtotal1                  365,000        - 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                   473,350      365,000         -
RECUNNET EPENNDIIURES               -
MILL OPERATION                       -             -
(a)  Salaries
Kill Mager                     _            _        25,000     25,000
Clerks                                                6,500     13,000
LOG YARD UNIT
Supervisor                     _            -         7,500      7,500
Unloader                       _            -         4, 503      14,500
Labor                          _            _         1,500      4 500
_                 _        16,500
SAWMILL UNIT
Log Deck                                    -         4000        4,000
Sawyers:
Headrig                       _            -        7,500       7,500
Edger                         _            -        6,000       6,o0o
Trio, Saws                   _            _         4,000       4,ooo
Green Chain                    -            -         2,500       7,500
L.boor                         -                     1,500       1,500
Saw Filer                      -            -        7,500       7,500
Saw Assistant                  _            -         2,500       2,500
Fork Lift                      _                      4,500      4,500
Watchean                       -            -         2,500       5,000
-            _           -       50,0C
MILL AD5 VE:HICLE MAIITENANCE UNIT
Supervisor                    -             -       25,000      25,000
Millwright                     -                      5,000       5,ooo
Mechaonic                            -                5,000      5,000
Jeep Driver                    -            -         5,000     10,000
Labor                          -            -        1,500       1 500
Subtotal                                         151 ,oo0
(b)  Fuel and Spare Ports
Loader         CR8il 250/day/250 days      _            -       62,5o0
Geserator      CR$ 486/day/250 days         _           -      121,500
Compressor    CR$  50/day/25C days         _            -       12,5CO
Jeeps (2)      CR$  20/day!250 days        -            -       10,100
Spares                                     -            -       37,500
Subtotal                     _                   24- ,  OOo
LOGGING OPERATION
(a) Salaries
Chain Saw Operator            -            -          5,000     15,000
Skidder Operator              -             -         7,500       7,503
Chokerean                     -            -          2,500      7,503
Deck..00n                                  -          5,00      5,003
Loader Operator               -            -          7,500      7,500
Assistant                     -            -          2,530      2,503
Foreman                       -            -         7,500       7,500
Lorry Driver                  -            -          5,D00      5,010
Subtotal        -            -            -        57,500
(b)  Fuel and Spare Costs
Chain Saw.                    -            -            _        1,500
Tiaberjacks                   -            -            -        49,120
Tractor                       -            -                    495'5°o
T_aso k-                                                        -3 5, 30
Subtotal        -            -            _      131,120
TOTAL ANNUAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES -               _           -       63.620
March 8, 1972






ANNEX 8
Table 6
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECI
Schools and Health Centres Costs
(CR$)
Total US$
Years      1973   1974       1975     1976      1977      Total   Eq,ivalent
A. Schools
62 x 1,400   -    84,000  224,000  280,000  280,000    868,000   157,800
B. Hospital               -      250,000     -         -        250,000    45,500
C. Dispensaries
10 x 7,000   -    21,000  _21L00    28,000        -        70,00      12,700
Total        -   105,000  495,000  308,000 228 0  1,188,000   216,000
May 3, 1972






BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLE2ENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF IBRD FINANCKD EXP=INTUIYU±S &/
xre. Lture CGtegcries                 1973              1974              1975          1976         1977           Total
(CR$    (Us$      (CR$    (US$     (Cr?$    (US$  (CR$  (Us$s (CiK  (U3S4
'cox)   t0oo)        'coo)    00)    '0 00)     )   cc) 'Occ) 'cc)
COLONE fixed assets             317               387       70      232       42     5           5            946      172
2. Pasture nc e                     400 ea  400  73   400       73      2C0       36    _                       1,000      182
Road corstracticrI            3,968      721    7,935   1 ,44l3    7,935   1,443    _           _          19,838   3,607
u.  restc.rch oc rholuing grouflas  100       18      100       18       61       11    _                         261       47
c^rit,l costs
5. Forestry investments             -         -       473       86      365       66    -           -             838      152
6. Schools & health centers         -         -       105       19      495       90   308   56   280   51    1,188        216
7. Studies                        1,100     200       550     100       -               _           _           1,650     300
SUBTOTAL           5,885   1,070    9,950   I,809   9,286    1,&68    313   56   255  51   25,721   4,676
8.  Contingencies                   647      U18   1,728       314  2,238        406    98   18   110   20    4,821        876
TOTAL              6,532   1,188   11,678   2,123  11,526    2,094   411   74   395   71   30,542    5,552
_/ As they are incuarred.
.OTE5: BIBF would finance lOC  of costs of all the above exenditure categories.
aJ 
p.arc}h 11, 19 72                                                                                                               _ 



ANNEX 8
Table 8
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IBRD Funds
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Years             at End of Quarter
and Quarters                   (US$ '000)
1973/1974
September 30                      238
December 31                       476
March 31                          832
June 30                         1,188
1974/1975
September 30                    1,613
December 31                     2,038
March 31                        2,674
June 30                         3,310
1975/1976
September 30                    3,730
December 31                     4,149
March 31                        4,777
June 30                         5,405
1976/1977
September 30                    5,420
December 31                     5,435
March 31                        5,457
June 30                         5,479
1977/1978
September 30                    5,493
Deceaber 31                     5,507
March 31                        5,528
June 30                         5,550
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste
1.        An autonomous project authority, the Companhia de Colonizacao do
Nordeste, would be created to manage the project. SUDENE has set up a
working party to draft the statutes of COLONE. These are yet to be finalized,
but it is expected that they would be in line with the following:  COLCNE
would be organized as a public corporation in which SUDENE would hold the
large majority of shares. Other shareholders would include Maranhao State's
roads (DER), agricultural development (DEMA), and extension agencies (ACAR),
as well as the National Institute of Colonization (INCRA). COLONE is expected
to be registered as a public corporation before the end of June 1972.
2.        The corporation's statutes would cover matters such as:  objec-
tives - limited to the development of the project on a nonprofit basis;
appointment and role of the Board of Directors - mainly to establish policy
and to appoint the General Manager who would be the Project Director;
responsibilities of the General Manager - responsible to tne Board but
retaining full operational responsibility for day-to-day operations and the
employment and dismissal of staff; the Board's period of tenure; share
capital and borrowing powers; budget approval - the budget would be prepared
by the General Manager and approved by the Board; operational plan; relations
with other Governmental and private entities; accounting and auditing.
3.        The provisional organization chart for COLONE is as follows:
June 12, 1972



BR_ZIL
ALTO TURI LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE COLONIZACAO DO NORDESTE
1~
General MangSer
(ProJect Director)
Finance
Agricultural                                     and                           Construction
Services                                 Administration
La|d     Extension   Forgstry   Market-   Research   Cattle    Accounting   Staffing          FDads   Water Supply   Buildings
Tenure                              ing                 Holding
Grounds
Private
Surveyors
:    ~Ze DDca        Nova Olinda
:     H~anager         Manager
Extension
Agents
C oV
kt
toK~



ANNEX 10
Page   1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Rice
1.        Prices at different marketing stages are estimated as follows:
Cr$
Price to producer (90 kg of unhusked                     /1
rice) Ze Doca (June)                              30.00--
ICW.Z-                                               4.80
Cost of milling                          /3
Jute bag for unhusked rice         0.75
Milling, including 15% profit    1.80
Cotton bag for dehusked rice       1.80            4.35
Total Cost Ex-Mill                                  39.15
IC                                                   1.50
Sub total                                40.65
Cr$ per 60 kg bag
Sao Luis    Fortaleza
Transport
(380 km and 1,060 km respectively)          4.00          6.50
Stocking                                       1.00          1.00
Total Cost to Wholesaler (June)            45.65         48.15
Sales price to retailer
June                                       49.00         53.00
November                                    56.00        60.00
February                                   61.00         68.00
/2
1CM-                                           1.54          2.18
Price to consumer/4
June                                        53.00        58.00
November                                    61.00         66.00
February                                   66.00         74.00
/1   On the basis of Cr$ 20/60 kg bag Government support price.
90 kg of unhusked rice is equivalent to about 60 kg
dehusked rice.
/2   Average tax of 16% on value added.  Paid by buyer.
/3   Assumes that a bag costing Cr$ 2.5/60 kg will be used
five times.
/4   Includes ICM which would be payable by consumer and which
would vary between Cr$ 0.64 and Cr$ 1.00 per bag.



ANNEX 1 0
Page   2
2.        The Bank's Economics Department estimates that the cif cost
Northeast Brazil of 42% broken rice imported from Southeast Asia would be
about US$105/ton for the next eight years, subsequently increasing to
US$110/ton through 1985. The estimated average wholesale price of project
produce rice in Sao Luis, Belem and Fortaleza would be about Cr$ 660/ton
(US$120). However, port handling, transport and stocking costs would
represent Cr$ 82.5 (US$15). The additional costs make imported rice prices
roughly the same as prices of locally produced rice. These prices, therefore,
have been used for the economic rate of return calculations.
3.        The present marketing process in Maranhao is as follows:  In
exchange for food and other commodities needed for subsistence of his family
and which is provided on credit by traders, settlers undertake to sell their
first rice harvest to such traders at very low prices (Cr$ 16 per 60 kg bag
in 1971). W4holesalers advance operating funds to local traders against
future rice deliveries, which subsequently they mill, transport and sell to
retailers or directly to the public in the main consumption centers. Whole-
salers fix prices to ensure high profits.
4.        The present system is unsatisfactory to both producer and consumer
and as an alternative Government has introduced its price support scheme.
Under this, farmers transport their rice to a nearby CTBRAZEM warehouse
receiving 70% of its value at the prevailing support price (which was
Cr$ 18.80 per 60 kg bag for the 1971 harvest) from Banco do Brazil against
deposit receipts, issued by CIBRAZEM. Then he would sell his rice to
whomever he pleases at higher prices in the months of relative scarcity,
November through February, and obtain higher net profits. This system does
not work in practice, however, because individual settlers are either
ignorant of the scheme, and/or incapable of escaping from the financial hold
of local traders.
5.        Under the project, these problems would be largely overcome, since
settlers would sell their rice to one of the project cooperatives, which
would have the capability to take full advantage of the price support scheme.
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 11
Page   1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Beef
1.        The table below summarizes present and expected prices at
different marketing levels.
Cr$/head
1.   Producer price in Ze Doca
(Cr$ 3/kg x 170 kg carcass/head)                      510
2.   Transport cost
(Cr$ 2/km for truckload of 10 animals for an
average distance of 350 Im Ze Doca - Sao Luis)         70
3.   Weight loss in transport (3% of carcass weight)           15
4.   ICM (value added tax of Cr$ 10/head when cattle
are slaughtered in Sao Luis)                           10
5.   Total cost to dealer at Sao Luis                         605
6.   Dealer's profit margin (10%)                              60
7.   Sales price to wholesaler                                665
8.   Slaughterhouse tax                                        36
9.   Wholesaler's profit margin (5%)                           35
10.   Price to butcher                                         736
11.   Nominal consumer prices/
First quality beef (Cr$ 5.5/kg x 92 kg/head)          506
Second quality beef (Cr$ 4.0/kg x 66 kg/head)         264
Viscera                                                 30
800
/1   Prices effectively charged are 15% to 20% higher, as beef
demand exceeds supply and butchers' unions enjoy monopoly
power.



ANNEX 1 1
Page   2
2.        Producer prices have increased by about 60% since the removal of
Government-imposed price ceilings on beef cattle two years ago and today are
considered reasonable in the context of the supply/demand conditions. Proj-
ect-induced production would be saleable in the North and in the Northeast
of Brazil for many years to come given the projected supply deficits. The
possibility of exports also is very good in the long term. The Bank's
Economics Department forecast prices for beef exports during 1973-80 of
about Cr$ 4.0/kg dressed weight fob which is roughly equivalent to projected
domestic wholesale prices for the same period based on a farmgate price of
Cr$ 3/kg of carcass, which was used therefore for the economic rate of
return calculation.
3.        The marketing structure in Maranhao is as follows:  cattle are
sold on the farm on the basis of a visual calculation of dressed weight
made by the local dealer, who in turn transports the animals by truck,
and/or on the hoof, mainly to Sao Luis and to Belem, where he sells them to
a wholesaler. The latter slaughters the animals and sells the beef and
other edible parts to a butcher. As the project lies at only about 380 km
from Sao Luis by road, beef would be shipped, slaughtered and consumed the
same day, which eliminates the need for freezing plants. The same will apply
to beef marketed in Belem when BR-316 is completed at the end of 1972.
4.        Present marketing arrangements are reasonably efficient and it is
not proposed to change them under the project until such time as the volume
of production increases to levels warranting the organizat<l   . , Aducers'
groups.
May 3, 1972



BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL SETTLERS' BUDGETS
16
Project Year                                            1      2       3       4      5       6       7      8       9     10      11      12      13     14      15   onwards
...........................................(December 1971 CR) ................................................
(A) Withouit The Project
Assumes Settler Obtains Land Demarcation
Marketable rice production (kg) rT                  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  3.600  3,600  3,600  3,600
Gross value of rice sales 2/                        1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125  1,125    900    900    900    900
Production costs                                       50      50     50      50     50      50     50      50      50      50     50      50      50     50      50      50
Net income                                          1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075  1,075    850    850    850    850
(B) With The Project
I.     Assumes Land Demarcation and Marketing
Organization for Rice Only
Marketable rice production3,kg) .!                  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  3,600  3,600  3,600  3,600
Gross value of rice sales -                         1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200
Production costs                                       50      50     50      50     50      50      50     50      50      50     50      50      50      50     50      50
Net income                                          1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,150  1,150  1,150  1,150
Incremental net income (over (A))                     375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    375    300    300    300    300
ITT(s) Assumes the Further Addition of
Beef Production
Net value of rice sales                             1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450    280    280    280    280
Gross value of beef sales                             -       -      -       -      800    550  1,000  1,150  1,350  1,400  1,450  1,850  2,150  2,950  3,250  3,350
Production costs                                      -    1,780  1,410    240    240    260    270    280    300    310    330    200    220    230    230    230
i.    Cattle purchases                               -    1,450  1,200    -        -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
ii.   Fencing                                        -      300    150    150    150    150    150    150    150    150    150    -              -      -       -       -
iii.  Minerals and medicines                         -       30      60      90     90    110    120    130    150    160    180    200    220    230    230    230
Net value of beef sales                               -   -1.780 -1,410   -240    560    290    730    870  1,050  1,090  1,120  1,650  1,930  2,750  3,020  3,1206,
Net farm income _                                   1,450   -330      40  1,210  2,010  1,740  2,180  2,320  2,500  2,540  2,570  3,100  2,210  3,030  3,300  3,400-
Incremental net income -/
Over (B)I                                     -   -1,780 -1,410   -240    560    290    730    870  1,050  1,090  1,120  1,650  1,060  1,880  2,150  2,250
(b) Asssnes the Provision of Medium-
Term Credit 5/
Inflows and outflows
-  Net farm  income                               1,450   -330       40  1,210  2,010  1,740  2,180  2,320  2,500  2,540  2,570  3,100  2,210  3,030  3,300  3,400
-  Medium-term  credit                               -    1,400  1.080    -        -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
1,450  1,070  1,120  1,210  2,010  1,740  2,180  2,320  2,500  2,540  2,570  3,100  2,210  3,030  3,300  3,400
-  Repayment of credit                               -      -        98    437    534    420    329    116    -           -      -       -       -       -      -       -  6/
Net inflows&/                                       1,450  1,070  1.022    773  1.j476   1320  1,851  2,204  2,500  2,540  2,570  3.100  2.210  3,030  3.300  3,400
Incremental net inflow
Over (B)I                                      -     -380   -428   -677       26   -130    401    754  1,050  1,090  1,120  1,650  1,Ot0  1,880  2.150  2,250
Over (A)                                      375      -5    -53   -302    401    245    776  1,129  1,425  1,465  1,495  2,025  1,435  2,255  2,525  2,625
1/  Rice yield drops to 1,500 kg/ha after 12 years of fallow.
2/  At CR$ 15/60 kg bag withcut marketing facilities.
3/ At CR$ 20/60 kg bag Government support price.
4/ If he paid 100l of the cost of the cattle and the fencing wire.
5/ The settler would make a 207. down payment on cattle and wire purchases, and would repay a loan for the balance over five years with two year's grace
at no indexing and at 7'( interest rate.
6/  In year 20 value of herd - CRp13,000
June 12, 1972






BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SEBTLEMENT PROJECT
LOGGING AND MILLING FINANCIAL RESULTS
(CR$ '000)
Year                1       2        3       4         5        6         7        8        9-13      14      15-20
Capital Costs                     -     473       365      -         -        -        -         506      105       506      105
Recurrent Costsl/                 -      -        584      584      584       584      584       584      584       584      584
TOTAL COSTS                    -     473      949       584      584       584      584    l>o9o       689    l,o9o       689
Gross Revenues 21                 -      -      1,554    1,554    1,554    1,554    1,554    1,554    1,554    1,554    1,554
Net Operating Revenues            -   - 473      605       970      970       970      970       464      865       464       865
Minus:  ICM /                   -      -        249      249       249      249      249       249       249      249       249
Royalty4/               -      -       168       168      168       168      168       168      168       168      168
Sub-total                      -      -       417       417      417,      417      417       417      417       417      417
Net Income to Concessionaire      -      -        553      553       553      553       553       47       448       47       448
Purchase of mill from COLTONE     -      -        248      248       248      248       243       -        -        -         -
Net Inflow to Concessionaire6/   -       -        305      305       305      305       305       47       448       47       448
1/  Annex 8, Table 5.
2/  84,000 railway sleepers at CR 16/sleeper and 2,100 m3 of sawn lumber at CR 100/m3 ex-mill.
3/  16% of value added ex-mill average for produce sold in Maranhao.
77  At CR$ 2/railway sleeper.  It is received by COLONE.
5/  As initial capital costs would be borne byCOLONE, only subsequent investments are included in concessionaire's costs.
In five years at 12% per annum on the balance - with monetary correction.        Purchase cost includes value of present
assets at CR$ 55,000.
June 12, 1972



BRA2IL
ALTO TORI LAND SltTLEWT PROJ'CT
IMPACT OF PROJECT ON CONSOIJDATiEDI GOTERSIMNIT BUDGET Al
(CR $ million)
12t73    1974       1975      1976       1977     1978      1979     1080      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991    1992-97
INFLOWS
Taxes and duties
ICM on rice marketed                                           0.1      0.3        0.'       1.1        1.1         i      1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1       1.0      0.9       0.7      0.4       0.4      o0        0.4       A.4
ICM on bef sold                                                 -         -         -          -        0.1       0.2      o.4       0.6      0.7       0.9      0.9       1.0      1.2       i.4       1.7      2.0       2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4
Slaugshter tax                                                                      -          -         -        0.1      0.2       C.3      0.3       o.4      o.4       0.5      0.5       o.6       0.8      0.9       1.0       1.1      1.1       1.1
ICM en lker                                                               - _      0.2        0.0       0.2      0.0       0.0       C2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.0       0.2      0 2       0.0      0         0.2       0 2      0 2       0 2
ICM and OPI on settlers  -ore-mption goods2/                            0.1        0.1       0.1         -       0.1       0.3       c.4      0.6       0.9      1.0       1.1      1.2       i.4       1.5      1.7       1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8
Sub-Total                                   0.1      0.4        1.0        1.4       1.4       1.7      2.2       0.6      2.9       3.5      3.6       3.9       4.1      4.5       4.9      5.2       5.2       5.9      5.9       5.9
Sattlers' 20%  dose payments on onttle mnd
wire puro-soe-                                                -       0.2        o.6        o.8       o.8      0.4        -         -        -         -        _         _         _        _         _
Settlers' repyume-t of medium ters credit                                          O _   0.1  0.4       1.1       1.7      2.0       1.7      1.1       0.5      0.1        -        -         -         -         -        _         -         -        -
Royalties frux mill cuaceanitnlre                               -         -        0.:        0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       C.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2
Repayment of eill by roeceesionaire                             -         -        0.         0.2       0.0       0.2      0.2       C.2      0.2        -        -         -         -        -         -
Diskursb ment of Il!RD lbanl                                   2,.;      8.6      11.6        7.1       o.4       0.2        -        -         -        -
Sob-Total                                   2.6      8B.       12.7        2.7       0.7       2.7      2.4       2.1      1.5       0.7      0.3       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2
TOTAL                                       0.7       9.2      13.7       10.1       4.1       4.4      4.6       4.7      4.4       4.2      3.9       4.1       4.3      4.7       5.1      5.4       6.0       6.1      6.1       6.1
OUTFLOWS
o( Di-ectly related to the project
Sevestmeets2///                                              7.1      16.o      19.1        9.9       7.9        -       0.2       C.2      0.2       0.2      0.2        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -
Operating costs
Adsieittration.b/                                           -        -          -          -         -       0.9       1.3       C.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3
Roads                                                       -       0.1        0.4       C. 7       0.7      0.7       2.7       C.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
04Sb-Otal                                   7.1      t4.l      19.1       10.u       0.6       1.6      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3
Net flow toloc uo-e-t                                           -4.4     -6.9       -5.7       -0.5      -4.5       2.8      3.4       3.5      3.2       3.0      2.7       2.8       3.0      3.4       3.8      4.1       4.7       4.8       4.8      4.8
b)  Indire-tly rotated to, praojcts                              1.?       0.4       0.9        1.3       1.7       1.8      1.7       1./      1.7       1.7       1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7       1.7       1.7      1.7       1,7       1.7       1.7
Net flow to Gocernment                                    -5.6     -.7'       -6.6      -1.8       -6.2       1.0      1.7       1.8      1.5       1.3      1.0       1.1      1.3       1.7       2.5      2.4       3.0       3.1      3.1       3.1
o)  Repayme-t of 10hD loo                                         -         -         -          -        1.7       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5
Net floo to Govenmeet                                     -5.6     -7.7       -6.6      -1. a      -7.9    -0.5       -1.8      -2.7     -2.0      -2.2     -2.5      -2.4     -2.2      -1.8      -1.0     -1.1,    -0.5       -o. 4     -0.4     -0.4
F/ Federal, Statse sd Munkiial.                                                                                to
/   1PI ia ths industrial vaiue added t-a at the rate of 120 00 catufactrOag value added.  Thea- figures e-lade taxsn -nd du,tits Paid nn further incremeatatl i-ome c-eated by pruje-t -utaide of settlers.
e/ elod-a cotingetoieo.
E/ Eoolodes re-seach, otodina, -choola nd l-attn cenerse.  Iscludes wat-er -Ply in project yearw 7 through 11.
2/ Only C010NE (BNR   wo-ld recover iLn  -doinitrtiow  crtr thrso.-  ,hr intereet paid ho -ettl-r.s us  -arketing credit).
2/ Rew-wrch,  todi-e, school, Ocaish cntert tot-es t.  asnd recurrent 000ts.
MRrch 20, 1972                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -



ANNEX 15
Page   1
BRAZIL
ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economics costs and benefits of the project are shown in the
attached table. The main assumptions are as follows.
2.        Project life.  Twenty years, since this would be the economic
life of the major investments, such as roads and buildings; and this period
would be required to reach full production under the project.
3.        Economic benefits and costs.  Economic benefits include:  a) the
value of the incremental production or rice, beef and timber generated by the
project and based on the yield and price assumptions of Chapter VII of the
main report; and b) the road user savings from the improvement of existing
roads in the project area. Savings were based on a current traffic of 20
vehicles per day, forecast to grow at 6% per annum, and are estimated as
follows:
Road User Savings
(Cr$ million)
Years
1     2      3       4      5       6 and subsequent
0    0.2    0.5    0.7    0.7             0.7
The above road user savings are included in total project benefits. The
return on the road improvement alone is estimated.at 12%.
4.        To calculate economic costs the following adjustments were maade to
the financial costs: a) the costs of schools, health centers, research and
studies were excluded, because they would be incurred by Government in any
case, and also because their benefits are excluded; b) additional family
labor to produce marketable rice and beef was valued at zero, since it would
have no alternative employment over and above the production of subsistence
crops (the value of subsistence labor and crops was exluded because it is
not an incremental value); c) taxes and price contingencies were exluded.
5.        Sensitivity Analysis.  A sensitivity analysis shows that the
following rates of return would result from the most probable changes in
costs and time at which benefits are obtained:



ANNEX 15
Page   2
Costs                      Benefits        Delay in Benefits        Rate of Return
100%                         100%               none                    16.0%
100%                         100%               one year                14.0%
110%                         100%               none                    14.0%
110% (less probable)         100%               one year                10.5%
6.        The above calculations show that the project's economic justifica-
tion would not be substantially affected by the most probable unfavorable
changes in the most important economic variables.
May 3, 1972



BRAZIL
ALTO TJRI LARD SETTLEME1IT PRECT
ECONOMIfC RATE OF ORETURN
(CRE million)
1973      1974     1975      1976     1977      1978     1979     1980      1961     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1990
COSTS
1. Administration
COONE recurrent costs                                0.7       1.1        1.3     1.4      1.3       0.8      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3
COlOlfE capital costs                                 0.4       0.5        0.2      -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -
BNR  adin-stration costs                              0.2       0.2        0.2     0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2
Sub-totl1                                   1.3       1.8       1.7      1.6      1.5       1.0      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.S       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5
2. Roads
Construction                                          4.0       7.9        7.9                                            -                       -        -                  -         -             -        -         -                  -
Ma.intenance                                           -        0.1        o.4     o.6       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1
S0b_botal                                  4.o        8.0       8.3      o.6      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      2.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
3. La-d surveys                                            0.1       0.3        0.3     o.3                 -         -        -         -        -             -         -        -              -        -         -        -         -        -
4. On-fam  lnvectmentn                                      -         1.1       3.3      4.2      4.2      2.1       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      o.6       o.4      0.2        -        -
5. Fesearch and hold'ng grounds ,/                         0.1        0.1        -        -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         _        _
6. Logging and milling capital cost                         -         0.5       o.4       -        -         -        -       0.5       0.1      0.1       0. 1     0.1       0..      0.5       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       O.l       0.1
7. Water supply                                             -          -         -        -        -         -       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -
8. Operating costs
Fine                                                   -        0.1        0.1     0.2       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1L      0.1      0.1        -         -        -         -        -
Reef                                                   -         -         0.1     0.2       0.3      o.4       0.5      0.5      0.6       0.7      o.8       o.8      0.9       1.1       1.1      1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2
Tinber                                                 -         -         o.6     o.6       o.6      o.6       o.6      0.6      o.6       o.6       o.6      o.6      o.6       o.6       0.6      o.6       0.6      o.6       o.6      o.6
SOb-t,atl                                  -         0.1       0.8      1.0      1.0       1.1      1.2      1.2       1.3      1.4       1.5      1.5       1.6      1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8
9. Contin6encie- 2/                                        0.3        o.6       0.7     0.3       0.3        -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Total                                      5.8       12.5      15.3      8.0      7.7       4.9      3.3      3.8       3.5      3.6       3.7      3.8       3.9       4.4      3.8       3.6      3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4
BENEOFITS
1. Grocss beefits from beef                                 -          -         -        -       0.5       1.5      2.5      3.8       4.5      5.5       6.2      6.7       7.6       9.1     11.3     13.2      14.8      15.3     15.3      74.8
2, Croes benefits fron. none                               0.3        1.1       2.1      3.5      3,4       3.4      3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4       3.2       2.8      2.1      1.0       1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2
3. Grose benefits from t:mber                               -          -        1.4     1.6       1.6       1.6      1.6      1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6       1.4      1.6       1.6
4. toad user savings                                        _         0.2       0.5      U. 0     0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7
Totsl                                      0.3        1.3       4.2      5.8      6.2       7.2      3.2       9.5     10.2     11.2      11.9      12.4     13.1      14.2     15.7      16.7     18.3      18.8     18.8      73.3
NET BENEF0TS                                              -5.5      -11.2     -11.1   -2.2       -1.5       2.3      4.9      5.7       6.7      7.6       8.2      8.6       9.2       9.8     11.9      13.1     14.9      15.4     15.4      74.9
Internal ecaonsie rote of return:  16-S
I/  Capital costs only, o-  -urrent 000t1  nre included in on-form  investments.
2/  At 540 ph.sical on nil capital inputs.
April 10, 1972






C S  E I.c Ode                                                                                                                                      /*...........  ^.s  ..... /4*>.;,  L    ZiA  i Wt!SL6(  Ilbdd
sS+r~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ios1 .i. lll-r7es|vf;h\i
n1l NCG    .f'~-s   YNb- f    i ;E,; >v kii,S y    ;m,,ogylA t
nfv DV NV4rr''   4     <       >  gl!oov  Ux^/,           !*        ,  18 1niisdt=;                                i;       t  nF        --
1 pN/wWr45(t  ;>wl8S5w°$_F  ........ r  ;; u}  -S    ;...........................  
3413P ~ ~ ~ ~            7       z1'2                      IU60*s  z  -1.:s    5    ?u         r is\e;t'                   ;  !Hidn%viWaiC 2 
VOSS3d               arl5SL    0         r..      .       g   ;,          ,E:: Wl@lQ itn;    ;;ed "' eer:il,  ::,!i  \:.. 
° 4~5  tz6*;  ;4Fr /l'0E'lj>;;hN
rLl   % towNn.g>   z  *kJ,        . *    ;;jor;               _   ;;   *\  ,<  fi;;;XS   4 t.I;- l......  N'S   l2O  Z=  ;V
nrsDvbfF @sLf 0>-* Q * *,/'6.5e .< 1ug2 9;-  l{4t*2*v<f ; ;>. .L Er;i, ; ei 
,~es6Sfv    *   i',0°* f1,;^;  ; 1F; ,;L;*- l- f  
. o   ri  \.X  ........    >4 3~-.  § ; !!';' Uf2t/ , -  1S 4 rt,  ::, 4 ; :z':::gp;:S ::: ; t' t!i
013JVW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o'    * 3A9 tl; ;fi;;-R_' ,;,r$   i i i 6 ,_,f;-
/V3 ,-'>'th1 0''3FOU-;  v.'r-  .JO NOVO    I t   .83-rN3-%:;,w    ii2f0;
2   t;;D  2  4 W $   Z    v   ; oo>+swz4Sw*sfiYffl  w@   iL**¢                      E                 *z  -----j~Vdy)V
.7  1389 r  .d    tIN3W31113S                         *NV        isni    o'  ;/i0>L 
v0553dt }+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> ~11                                  - 1   *-4  . . . . . . .-/g
nulrr g e fi _    ;  19Y .q j   t                             ; tC                              N p Z v sW . v~~~~~~~PP.I.
s _tzrX  (35ni /5 /  snz<.,,   soA  * Je-- ON*3 3k Nu25 <t Cin-   M-
o 1't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 30-b;  _P ..  .......                                                        *
[   b231VlhOnHuws   vnsqvsL    /     ~      _ S-38 t1         /   |Amwwrl                       /               X,  , 
+ r   wB io |s, 5   +      \         <   X                           M - "-
- _ _ ~~~~~i  .,vt r3r 3 cS O     AN,
dvw ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~              ios<¢ub9oeftj             J,i                                             f        f/






MAP 2
TO RELEM
BRAZIL
-\ALTO TURI LAND SETTLEMENT
PROJECT
C--  __\-_s, S    't   PROJECT AREA
_~~~        -X~NOVA OLINDA 
Pr°lot Limils/\  ) \       \    \              =}             \ ~~~~~~ ~~P-j-nc Li.il.
jd   1  0    \                                   \/ 0  ~~~~~~~            ~      ~     ~~~~~~~PINHEIRO   X
-,-                   .                                 
/    \   |   /  -a                       /                ~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ROADS
LATERITE ROADS, 6m  wde on  8md
__/_____ OTHER ROADS
PROJECT ROADS
'  t *<PENETRATION    ROADS,  4n,  o
FARM ACCESS ROADS, 3m on4
.         |  _ _ TO  BE UPGRADED, 4n mwith Im ,hoolden,
ACCESS TRAILS
BRAZIL
AT*Nn ^xo C ;EA/NE   OC
i 1-  ,'.rf~~I  I                                                             I -- - _
v v   g               1                                                1"fA                         0       S       10      I i     20      25i K.
|TO  ACABAL
: SOUTH AMERICA 
The kbsm/drin LhO,nn on -hin map do
in0n endorsement or OOetpTn by the
World    BsRD 3ed   l  o53liatsn
A PR IL  P972                                                                                                                                                   IBED 3853



