RESTRICTED
FILE  CtPY                         Report No. P-298
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR THE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
October 24, 1962



IUTERNATIONAL DEVELOP lENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AN'D RECOHIENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF
EL SALVADOR FOR THE THIRD HIGHHAY PROJECT
1.     I submit herewith the following report and recommendations on
a proposed development credit from the Association in an amount of
3A8 million, or its equivalent in other currencies, to the Republic of
El Salvador to help finance a highwqay improvement, construction and
maintenance project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.    With loans totalling just over ';16 million made in 1954 and
1959, the Bank has assisted in financing the construction of a coastal
highway and a system of feeder roads. The coastal highway was com-
pleted in January 1962 and the feeder road project is scheduled for
completion early in 1963.
3.     In 1961, the Government of El Salvador requested assistance in
financing a third highway project in addition to projects for tele-
communications and power for which studies were under way. A mission
visited El Salvador in April 1962 to appraise the new highwTay project.
Having concluded that El Salvador should be eligible for assistance
from the Association, we decided that of the three projects before us
the highway project was the most suitable for Association assistance.
4,.    Formal negotiations began in W4ashington on September 4, 1962.
The Borrower was represented by Hr. Julio Noltenius, IMinister of
Public W4orks, assisted by IMr. Enrique Lima, Executive Director of the
Rio Lempa Commission.
5.     The proposed credit would be the first by the Association to
El Salvador. The following Bank loans have been made to El Salvador:
Year                                                        Amount
of             Borrower              Purposes          (equivalent in
Loan                                                      $ million)
19h9   Comision del Rio Lempa   Electric power development       12.5
1954   Republic of El Salvador  Coastal highway project          11.1
1959   Republic of El Salvador  Highwmay construction             5.0
1959   Comision del Rio Lempa   Electric power development        2.7
1960   Comision del Rio Lempa   Electric power development        3.8
Total (net of cancellations)                                 35.1 2.
of which has been repaid                                   7.7
Total now outstanding                                        27.4
Amount sold                  1.6
of which has been repaid  1.2                              0.4
Net amount now held by Bank                                  27 0
2/ Includes 14.7 not yet disbursed.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.     The proposed credit would have the following characteristics:
Borrower:                           Republic of El Salvador
Credit Amount:                      The equivalent, in various
currencies, of $8 million.
Purpose:                            To assist in financing the
improvement, construction or
reconstruction of seven trunk
roads and four feeder roads
totalling about 364 km in
length and the reorganization,
equipping and training of the
organization charged with the
maintenance of the Coastal
Highway.
Term and Amortization of Credit:    50 years; 80 semi-annual re-
payments of the principal:
1/2% of principal amount to
be repaid semi-annually be-
ginning November 1, 1972 and
ending May 17 1982 and 1-1/2%
semi-annually beginning
November 1, 1982 and ending
Nay 1, 2012.
Service Charge on Credit:            3/4 of 1% per annum on the
amount withdrawn and out-
standing, payable semi-
annually.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Justification of the Project
7.     A detailed appraisal of the project (TO-340a) is attached (No. 1).
8.     El Salvador's highway system, with a total road length of about
3,390 In, of which about 1,910 lm are all-weather roads, is playing an
increasingly important role in meeting the countryts transportation
needs. Vehicle registration in El Salvador is growing at the rate of
over 10%o per year while average annual fuel consumption between 1950
and 1960 increased by approximately 8%.
9.     For the past several years, the Government has concentrated on
the construction of new roads and little has been done to improve and
upgrade the more important existing roads. The rebuilding to higher



- 3 -
standards of the seven trunk roads included in the project is now
needed to accommodate the increasing traffic and will substantially
reduce transportation costs.  Three of these roads link the two
largest cities with each other and with the country's two chief
ports. A fourth provides a shorter, more direct connection between
two main sections of the country, by-passing the capital city of San
Salvador. The remaining three are being upgraded to provide better
links with neighboring Honduras and Guatemala - one of them con-
necting with the new road from central Honduras to the El Salvador
border which is also built with the Association's assistance. Their
importance is enhanced by the movement toward Central American eco-
nomic integration in which E1 Salvador, with its over-population,
managerial talent and growth of light industries, is particularly
interested. These roads will facilitate regional trade and, in par-
ticular, imports of foodstuffs into El Salvador and exports of indus-
trial products, of which the country expects to be one of the main
suppliers.  The economic returns on all seven roads is high.
10.    The four new feeder roads of the project, serving regions in
-which there are about 14,000 farm families, will not only lead to an
increase in land under cultivation but also stimulate diversification
of agriculture by enabling some land owners to shift production from
coffee to food crops. TWhereas the project financed by the 1955 Bank
Loan opened up lands mainly in the coastal zone, the proposed new
feeder roads would make accessible some of the remaining unutilized
or underutilized lands in the central part of the country.
11.    The reorganization, equipping and training of the Government
maintenance organization to introduce mechanized methods on the Bank
financed and now completed Coastal Highway will serve the double pur-
pose of protecting the country's large investment in that important
road and, at the same time, creating -within the maintenance service a
nucleus trained in modern techniques which can be gradually expanded
to maintain the entire highway system.
12.    The project is technically sound and cost estimates are real-
istic; it is adequately justified economically by the future savings
in transportation costs and by the prospective increase in agricultural
and industrial production.
Organization and Procedure
13.     The Ministry of Public Works, with the assistance of external
consultants, will be responsible for the execution of the project.
All road work will be carried out by contractors, under the direct
supervision of the Consultants. All contracts for road work and all
major purchases of equipment will be executed on the basis of inter-
national, competitive bidding.



Arrangements for Financing
l4.    Of the total project cost of 113.5 million, the credit of t8
million would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project. Local
currency requirements of the project would be covered by national
budget appropriations.
PART IV  -  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
15.    Draft of Development Credit Agreement is attached (No. 2).
16.    The agreement is substantially in the form currently used by
the Association for projects of this kind. Provisions of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement of special interest are:
(a) Section 4.01 (g) providing for the adoption of an extra-
ordinary budget appropriating the minimum amounts
needed in the next four years for the estimated
local currency cost of the project;
(b) Section 6.01 which makes the employment of consultants
by the Borrower and the adoption of the extraordinary
budget conditions of effectiveness of the Credit.
17.    The report of the Committee provided for in Article 5, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association is attached
(No. 3);
PART V - ECONOMIC POSITION
18.    A report, "The Current Economic Position and Prospects of El
Salvador"(SEc_41-6272)was distributed on April 11, 1962.
19.    El Salvador is one of the poorer countries of Latin America.
Average per capita income is estimated at about $200, and has de-
clined in recent years. Its distribution is very uneven. More than
70% of the population live under primitive conditions, and about 60g
are illiterate. IWith a total area of only 8,061 square miles and a
population of 2.6 million, population density (325 persons per square
mile) is about the same as that of India. Average annual population
increase (3.5%) is one of the highest in the world. Unlike most
countries of Latin America, land resources are scarce and there is
very little new land that can be economically brought into cultivation.
El Salvador has no known mineral resources of any importance.
20.    Despite poor natural conditions El Salvador has displayed a
real capacity for economic growth when external conditions were
favorable. Modern agricultural techniques have been adopted and
yields are high. During the period of rising coffee prices, gross



- 5 -
capital formation rose from 12% to 16% of GNP, and a considerable
share of private sector profits were invested in production facili-
ties which expanded and diversified the production structure, both
for export and for domestic consumption.
21.    El Salvador's financial position has been substantially
weakened by the decline of coffee prices. Although the increase in
cotton production in recent years has reduced her former complete
dependence on coffee (89% of total exports in 1950), coffee still
accounts for two-thirds of total exports and coffee and cotton to.
gether for about four-fifths. Foreign exchange earnings from
coffee have fallen by more than 50% since l957 and public revenues -
dependent largely on foreign trade - have also substantially declined.
To compensate for this decline the Government has drawn on the cash
surpluses accumulated in the boom and has accelerated its effort to
promote the production of other products.  However, with earnings
from coffee exports likely to decline even further, and with the
possibility of further expansion of cotton limited by land resources,
it will be difficult to increase foreign exchange earnings by more
than 3 to 312% a year for the next 5 years.  The long term growth of
exports may be more favorable if the industrial sector, which already
has a relatively capable entrepreneurial group, can be stimulated.
22.   A more rapid expansion of the industrial sector is likely to
require a rate of investment and capital goods imports well in excess
of recent levels. El Salvador has the managerial and administrative
talent to carry out an intensified program. While new tax measures
have been introduced, El Salvador wrill have to depend to a greater
extent than in the recent past on foreign loans to finance economic
development. El Salvador enjoys very little room for maneuver since
foreign exchange reserves are now at a very low level.
23.    Service on existing debt is not high (6% in 1964), mainly
because of the pruident policies followed by the El Salvador authori-
ties in the period of the coffee boom. However, any increase in
fixed debt servicing obligations in the decade ahead is likely to
impose a considerable burden. In the last two years alone El Salvador
has obtained loans amounting to $34 million. Borrowing at this rate
would soon impose an undue burden for servicing if this borrowing
were not being arranged, as some of it has been, on special terms.
In addition to the proposed IDA Credit for highway construction, we
are currently considering a telecommunications project requiring a
loan of $8 million (foreign exchange cost) and expect soon to receive
a power project (next stage of CEL program) which would require a
loan of about $4 million. It is appropriate, in view of El Salvadorfs
economic position, for the Bank and IDA to provide a blend of loans
and credits.



- 6 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLT'S OF AGREEMNT
24.    I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
25.    I recommend that the Association make available a development
credit to the Republic of El Salvador in an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to $8 million for a total term of 50 years with a
service charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum and on such other terms as are
specified in the draft Development Credit Agreement and that the
Executive Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No. 4).
Eugene R. Black
President
IWTashington, D. C.
October 24h 1962



