Ct-3)J
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-340a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
EL SALVADOR
October 11, 1962
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Official rate of exchange)
U.S. $1          = 2. 50 colones
1 colone         = U.S. $0. 40
1 million colones = U. S. $400, 000



EL SALVADOR
APPRA-ISAL OP T-IRD iICG+ThAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
page
SUIPMARY                                                 i-ii
I. I1TTRODUCTION1                                            1
II. BACKGTROLTTD                                              1-2
A.  The Coastal Highway Project                           1
B.  The Feeder Road Project                               2
C.  HighTwray HIeeds                                      2
D.  Tne Status of Liaintenance                            3
*        III. THE PROJJECT                                              4
A.  Description                                           4
B. Cost Estimate                                          5
C.  Administration and Execution                          6
D. Economic Justification                                 7
Tne Trunk Roads                                      8
The Feeder Roads                                     10
Zaintenance of thne Coastal Highway                   11
IV.  CONsTCLUSTOIT,S AiD RECOI-LjIENDATIOTQS                  11
Appendices
Table 1 - List of Roads in the Project
Table 2 - Design Standards
Table 3 - Cost Estimate of the Project
Table 4 - Trunk Roads - Projection of Traffic Volumnes
Tabl e 5- Feeder Roads - rxpansion in Cultivation
Hap 1 :El Salvador - Third HighwJay Project



M SALVADOR
APPRAISAL OF THIRD HIGHWAY PMJECT
SUPiNARY
i.        The "overnment of El Salvador has asked the Association to assist
in financing a project consisting of tlo parts: a) construction; and b) main-
tenance as follows:
a) The design, improvement, construction or reconstruction of
eleven roads totaling 364 km in length.
b) The reorganizing, equipping and training of the maintenance
organization on the Coastal Highway.
ii.       The Bank has made two highway loans to El Salvador, the first for
US$11.1 million equivalent in October 1954 for the Coastal Highway, and the
second for us$5.o million equivalent in January 1959 for a feeder road proj-
ect.  The Coastal Highway was completed in January 1962, while the Feeder
Road Project is scheduled for completion early in 1963.
iii.      As traffic on the existing road system has increased steadily, at-
tention must nowi be directed to raising the standards of certain existing
roads. Almost all of the roads included in the construction part of the
project are parts of the existing highnway system which require improvement.
reconstruction or replacement.
iv.       Field inspections have indicated that the recently-completed Coastal
Highway is not being properly maintained because of lack of equipment and lu-
familiarity with modern maintenance techniques. The maintenance part of the
project is designed to rectify this situation.
v.        Consultants satisfactory to IDA would be responsible Ifor the overall
supervision of the Project. The proposed design standards for the construc-
tion part are considered adequate.
vi.       The design and construction or reconstruction of roads included in
the project would be completed within four years. The reorganizing and train-
ing of the maintenance organization would be extended over a two-year perioc.
vii.      The total cost of the Project is estimated at USil3.5 million eauiva
lent of which the foreign exchange coiponent is US53.OO million equivalent.
The cost estimate for construction is based mainly on aerial surveys, but ap-
pears in line with the cost of work presently under way. The cost estimate fo:
the maintenance part is based on current costs of equipment and services. Both
include a reasonable allowance for contingencies including price increases.
viii.     The important benefits of the Project would be the lowering of trans
nort costs and improved communications between the two major cities of El
Salvador and the ports of Acajutla and La Libertad. Communications to the
neighboring countries of Guatemala and Honduras wTould also be improved, while
agricultural production would be stimulated in the service area of the feeder
roads.



ii.
ix.       Tle improvement in maintenance operations would help preserve the
major investment in the Coastal High-vay. The training ifhich would be given
to a select group of maintenance engineers should eventually lead to greater
efficiency in maintenance operations throughout the country.
x.        TAe Project provides a suitable basis for a development credit of
US38 million to cover its foreign exchange cost.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of El Salvador has asked the Association to assist
in the financing of a road project for: a) the improvement, construction and
reconstruction of seven trunk roads and four feeder roads; and b) the re-
organizing, eqLipping and training of the maintenance organization on the
Coastal Highlway. The total cost of the above project is estimated to be
US$l3.5 million equivalent.
2.        The Bank has made twTo highway loans to El Salvador, Loan 104-ES,
in October 194, for the Coastal Highway and Loan 216-ES, in January 1959,
for feeder roads to the Coastal High vay. The first project was completed
in January 1962, while the second project is about 80% complete.
3.        The proposed project is based on a preliminary engineering study
prepared by Tippetts-Abbett-H-fcCarthyy-Stratton (TAh3) early in 1961. The
report was submitted to the IDA later that year, but because of the unsettled
political situation, an appraisal mission was not sent to El Salvador until
early 1962. The mission recommended a number of changes in the project, nost
of which were accepted.  This report is based on the original study made byr
the Consultants and additional information prepared and submitted by the
Government and the Consultants after the visit of the mission.
II. BACKGROTJND
A. The Coastal Highway Pro;ect
4.        In October 1954, the Bank made a loan (104-ES) of USpll.l million
equivalent for this project. It consisted of the construction of a 320-km
high standard paved highway through the Pacific coastal area extending from
the Guatemalan border to the Honduran border. One section of the Highway was
already in existence when the loan agreement was signed, while another sec-
tion Twas under execution.  The construction work was let in five sections.
*   5.    The Highway was completed in January 1962, about three years behind
the originally scheduled completion date of late 1958. The delay was mainly
caused by the failure of the contractor on one section, which eventually had
to be re-bid, and the financial difficulties of another contractor on two
other sections which materially slowed his progress.
6.        Despite the difficulties noted above, the work was satisfactorily
carried out to high standards throughout under the supervision of TANIS. The
total cost of the project amounted to approximately US327.l million equivralent,
about 70j over the original estimate. The main reasons for the over-run were:
i) the Governmentlts decision at time of bidding to collect taxes on payments to
contractors; ii) the later inclusion of the cost of housing and feeding of
Government supervisory staff; iii) greater than expected quantities of hard rocd
and iv) the increased costs of supervision due to the delay in the execution of
the project.



2.
7.        The construction of a hihTTay through the Pacific Coastal region has
opened un the principal remaining area in the country with unused agricultural
potential.  Before, much of this area was practically inaccessible.  Developmeni
took place as soon as sections of the highway were onened to traffic; land was
cleared and planted, and houses and buildings erected.  Today much of the coast-
al plain is imder itensive cultivation. Corn and cotton are the most impotar
crops while the raising of beef cattle has been greatly expanded. The success-
ful development of agricultural production in the area traversed by the Coastal
Highway is very encouraging and indicates that lands will be rapidly developed
in El Salvador once proper access is provided.
B. The Feeder Road Project
8.        At the time the Coastal Highway Project wvas conceived, it wTas foresee
that a system of feeder roads would be required to obtain full benefit from the
Highwjay. A feeder road proiect was prepared in 1958 and a loan (216-ES) for
US.05.0 million equivalent was made in January L959.
9.        The Feeder Road Project consists of two parts: the construction of 20
feeder roads of which all but three connect directly with the Coastal Highway;
and the constraction of three complementary projects to the Coastal Highway.
All of the feeder roads are now under construction and are scheduled for com-
pletion early in 1963.  The three complementary projects have been comiipleted.
The quality of the work on some of the feeder roads has been somewhat unsatis-
factory but, following a recent Bank field inspection, steps have been taken to
obtain better -performance by the contractors.  The project is being supervised
bv Government forces wTith the assistance of TAMS.
10.       It is too early to cite specific benefits resulting from the construc,
tion of the feeder road proJect as only six roads have been completed to date,
and these only for a short time.  It is evident, however, that the benefits
would include a further strong stimulus to the development of the coastal regio
which be7an wmith the construction of the Coastal Highway.
C. Highway NJeeds
II11.     The gross national product of El Salvador expanded at an annual rate
of about 7% during the decade ending in 19584  Since 1958 there has been little
growth in the economy largely because of the fall in world coffee prices. The
economy remains primarily based on agriculture, although some expans-on has
taken place in the industrial sector. Some results of the economic integrat; or
of the Central American coumntries noA in process can already be seen, and un-
doubtedly El Salvador, with its centrcl location will enjoy further gains as
integration proceeds.
12.       Unile parts of El Salvador are served by two narrow-gauge railways
totaling about 750 km in length, the high m7ay system is playing an increasingly
important role in the field of transportation. The total length of thle exist-
ing road systemi is 3,390 lou classified as follo-s: 980  km of asphalt roads;
930 lou of all-weather gravel roads; and 1,40 km of unimriproved roads.  During
the last five years approxim^iiately 350 km of paved roads, 250 km of gravel roads



3.
and 40O k-ri of uninproved roads have been constructed.  This represents an over-
all incre;se of approximately 30%.  Vehicle registration in El Salvador is grow-
ing at the rate of over l/'O per year while an average annual increase in fuel
consumption of approximately cO has taken place from 1950 to 1960.
13.       For the past several years highway expenditures have been concentrate
on the construction of new roads and little has been done to improve and up'-
grade some of the most important existing roads on which traffic has increased
steadily.  Priority should now be given to rebuilding some of these roads to
higher design standards and providing paved surfaces where none presently exist
The project submitted in this report is mainly concerned with this type of  ork-
D. Status of yIaintenance.
14.        The Hi-hThay Department has been considered in the past to be a rela-
tively efficient organization. Political interference was held to a minimum,
and the Department was reason^,.bly well equipped and staffed.  However, recent
Bank inspections have indicated that maintenance standards have fallen because
of extensive use of hand labor and insufficient appropriation of funds, ancd the
Department is unfamiliar -vith modern techniques for maintaining high standard
paved highways such as the Coastal Highway.
15.       A Bank mission which visited El Salvador in October 1961 found that
the Coastal Highway had sustained consi.dIerable damage during the rainy season
which had just ended.  At that time, little effort was being made to repair the
damage or carry out necessary routine maintenance.  Following representation by
the Bank, a major effort was made to restore the highway, and the recent Bank
mission to El Salvador found that most of the damage had been repaired.  Desnitt
this improvement, the mission concluded that maintenance operations on the High-
way were inadequate.  The Txworkmanship was poor and repairs were being m.ade with
inferior matezials.
16.       The maintenance budget has not been increased for several years al-
though as pointed out in paragraph 12, the highway- system has expanded at a
rapid rate.  Furthermore, the Government has recently adopted a policy of using
hand labor on maintenance to relieve unemployment, and has discouraged the use
of equipment. Worn out equipment is not being replaced and equipment needing
repairs is being:-kept idle because of the lack of spare parts. Equipment is
considered essential on such maintenance operations as compacting materials,
repairing pavement surfaces and transporting suitable materials fromn appropriat
sources of supply, which may be some distance from the place of use.
17.        'he maintenance of the 320-km long Coastal Hi-.hway, parts of which ar,
located through the most rugged type of terrain, andc the whole of which is sub-
ject to heavy seasonal rains, is an operation of considerable magnitude. If thf
investment in the Coastal Hisghway is to be preserved, it is essential that step
be taken to strenathen the present maintenance organization by building Up its
equipment and training personnel in modern maintenance techniques. To provide
for this, the new project includes a program of maintenance for the Coastal
Highway, the countryts mnost i=oortant high standard road.



- 4 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
18.       Lhe project consists of two parts: a) construction; and b) maintenance
as follows:
a) The design, improvement, construction or reconstruction of seven
trunk roads and four feeder roads totaling 364 km in length.
b) The reorganizing, equipping and training of the maintenance
organization on the Coastal Highway.
19.       The eleven roads in the construction part of the project (see Table 1)
may be classified as a) those wihich primarily serve internal traffic (Nos. 1-h);
b) those leading to the road systems of adjoining countries (Nos. 5-7); and c)
agricultural feeder roads (Nos. 8-11).  All but one of the roads are located in
the wlestern half of the country (see map).
20.       The improvement of roads Nos. 1-3 would better the existing connec-
tions between San Salvador and Santa Ana, and the Pacific Coast ports of Aca-
jutla and La Libertad.  The work would consist mainly of upgrading sub-standard
sections in mountainous terrain.  A small amount of realignment would. also be
required, mostly on Road No. 2.  The worL on Road No. 1 would include the re-
placement of a number of small structures, the strengthening of the base on
sections Ywhere almost continuous maintenance is noT required and the upgrading
of onre1hort section to the standards generally existing elsewhere on the road.
21.       Road No. 4 provides a bhpass around San Salvador for through traffic
between the north andl the w-estern part of the countryc  The earthllorks of this
road have recently been completed by the Department of Public xJorks so that
only the base and paving of this road is included.
22.       The remaining three trunk roads would improve existing connections to
the highway systems of neighboring Guatemala and Honduras. On Road No. 5 the
work consists mainly of i;iproving the vertical aligment and the paving of an
existing road.  The Inter- merican HighwTay in Honduras, which connects with
this road, was recently reconstructed and paved.
23.       Some reconstruction and the paving of Road No. 6 would improve the
only connection between El Salvador and the western region of Honduras.  A
trunk road, known as the Western Hi-hway Extension, is now under construction
through this region of Honduras whrich will provide a direct connection from
El Salvador to Puerto Cortes on the Caribbean coast. The Extension is partly
financed by IDA funds (Credit No. 1) and is scheduled for cormnletion in 1964.
24.       Only the paving of Road 1Ho. 7 is included in the project as the earth-
works are being carried out by the Pubolic Works Department.  The road will pro-
vide another cnnnection to Guatemala.  A suitable bridge across the Rio Paz at
the border already exists, and the Guntemalan Government has indicated its in-
tention of improvina the connecting road in its territory.



-5-
25.       The four feeder roads (Ios. 8-11) are located in the highly
productive west-central mountainous region.   'To would serve the Lake
Llopango area just east of San Salvador, while tie remaining twJo would
feed the Coastal highlIway and one of thle trunk roads (;o. 4) in the
project.   Tne i-Tork on thlese four roads woul-d involve newf construction.
26.       The project includes primary (L), secondary (3), and tertiary
(4) roads.  Tuesign standards have been establlshed in accordance with
anticipated traffic volumes, and include provision -,for all-weather surface
as shown in 7able 2.
27.       The maintenance part of thae project consists of reorganizing the
maintenance of tle Coastal lighway and providing sufficient equipment, spare
parts and supplies so that the Highwav will be effectively and efficiently
maintained.   As modern maintenance techaniques can best be demonstrated on a
high-standard hiilhwa7y of modern design, it is proposed to concentrate the
maintenance efforts on the Coastal Highway.  Tle lessons learned here vould
eventually be reflected on the maintenance practice throughout tlhe country's
highway system.   T7ne hiinistry of Public Works has agreed to make available
for sacps some of tne buildings used during the construction of the Highway.
28.       The project includes a provision for a maintenance engineer for
a two-year period to train local forces in modern maintenance techaniques
includinefl the operation, scheduling and maintenance of equipment, the
selection of suitable materials for repair work, and tre application of
seal coats to preserve the existing pavement.
B. Cost lQstimates
29.       The total estimated cost of the Turoject including thle construction
and maintenance parts is US ;8.0 million equivalent in foreign emchange and
USV5.5 million eauivalent in local currency, a total of USf'P13.5 million
equivalent.  Tne foreign currency con.^ponent for thne construction part amounts
to 60.3-,, w'nile for the -maintenance part it is 50.Q01 or an average of 59.3,.
30.       The detailed estimate, which is given in Table 3, is summarized
below:
Foreign
Local Cost           Currency Cost           Total Cost
(inr.illions of US dollars equivalent)-
Constru.ction             4..8                     7.3                  12.1
£l-aintenance              0.7                     0.7                   1.4
*                                       5d5 7.0                                      73.7
31.       The cost estilmate for the construction part was prepared by the
Consultants and is based on thneir seven years of experience in El Salvador
which, as indicated above, has included extensive construction work,   It
includes the cost of equ-..pm-nt depreciation, local and non-Salvadorian labor,
materials and suppliJes, contractorst profits and consultants' fees.   Tne
quantities -ere mostly determined fromrz information obtained by aerial pho-
togra:niy rather than field survevs while unit prices were based on th e currcnt



- 6 -
cost of simlar wrork.  The estimate is considered reasonably reliable in view
of the Consultants' experience and the results being obtained on the Feeder
Road Project.   Actual costs to date on this project indicate that the Con-
sultants' cost estimnate was reasonably accurate.   As an ad.ded margin, the
Consultants' allowance of 107 for contingencies nas been raised to approxi-
mately 20C.
32.       The estimate for the maintenance part was based on a study of the
maintenance requirements by tlhe Consultants.  It covers the cost of equip-
ment, spare parts, supplies and Consultants' services. It includes an
allowance of 8's for contingencies.
33.       A larger contingency item is provided for in the construction
part of the project as compared to tne maintenance part because (i) the
greater difficulty of accurately estimating construction quantities and
unit costs, ii) the cost of maintenance equipment, parts and services
can be fairly accurately deteri-ined in advance, and iii) the longer period
of execution of the construction part.
C.  Administration and 11cecution
3,.       Final plans, specifications and contract documents would be
prepared by the HighwayT Department with the assistance of Consultants.
The latter would assist in the carrving out of field surveys and would
review and approve the co-milpleted designs.
35.       Certain problemis have arisen during the construction of the
Feeder Road iProject because of t-e lacC of direct control over the work
by the Consultants.   The new project wTould be directly supervised b,y the
Consultants and anTy local staff required would be engaged and paid by thle
Consultants.
36.       All of the work would be carried out by contractors on the basis
of international competitive bidding and contracts would be of the unit-price
type.   The work would be let in several sections of various sizes in order to
provide a bidding opportunity to small, medium and large contractors.   In
cases where imore thaan one road is included in a contract, provision would
be made to insure that the workc will be c=rried out in a progressive manner
so that it will not be necessary to wait until a contract is completed before
any of t>e roads can be accepted and opened for use.  In the two earlier
projects advances have been paid to contractors to enable them to purchase
equipment and supplies.   HowJever, the advances hlave not always been used
for this purpose and following thne payment of advances contractors have been
more difficult to supervise.    Tne Government has agreed to discontinue the
payn-ent of advances to contractors on the new project.
37'*   Diesi7n work w-ould be started l--z-ediately and i.ould be cooipleted
within the first ttwo -yerrs.   It is evipected tnat the first contract vToul-d
be let witnin one -ear and thrat te Tlroijcit would be coiTleted Tithin four
years. * On tne ea-rlier projects the Govcrnmient his aometimes taken as long



- 7 -
as six months after the tender board has recomnended an award to ap-rove
and sign a contract.   As this situation unnecessarily delays the start of
construction and increases cos-ts, particularly of supervision, remedial
maeasures were agreed upon during negotiations.
38.       The maintenance part of the project calls for a qualified highway
maintenance consultant for a two-year period to train local maintenance person-
nel.   It is essential that full advantage of this be taken by tne Highway
Department and to this end it is proposed that a number of junior engineers
be assigned to work under tlhe direction of the consultant on maintenance.
The Government has agreed to give the maintenance consultant sufficient author-
ity over local -oerso.nnel to enable him to carry out the training program
efficiently.
39.       In addition, the Government has agreed to revise its policy re-
garding the use of nand labor so thaat this restriction will not handicap the
establishment of a maintenance organization using rnechanical methods on the
Coastal Highway.   It has also agreed to provide sufficient local currency
funds in the budget of the Highway Department for the maintenance of the
Highway on a full-time basis and for the execution of the project.
D. Economic Justification
h0.       El Salvador is the smallest of the Latin American countries and,
with an average of 323 persons per square mile, one of the nost densely
populated.   Althoughl tne per capita income in 31 Salvador is relatively
high, its distribution is very uneven with the result that a large proportion
of the population lives close to the subsistence level.
41.       At present, large quantities of food are imported.  The main demand
for food is in the uplands of the interior where the population is concentra-
ted.   Imports are broughnt in either through the ports on tile Pacific Coast
or from neighboring Guatemala and Honduras.  Thus low transport costs be-
tween the population centers and the ports of entry are essential.
42.       T'ith population increasing at an annual rate of over 3%, there is
need to increase agricultural production and particularly to diversify agri-
culture. For the past several years highway construction has been centered
in thle coastal region to open up the last of the remaining large tracts of
arable land in the country.  As these lands are now being placed under cul-
tivation, further efforts to increase agricultural production will have to be
concentrated in the central region where existing farm lands near the large
market Senters are not being fully utilized.
43.       E1 Salvador has two railways, neither of which is operating economi-
cally because of limited traffic and short haulage.   A number of important
points are not served by the railways, and as slipping distances are short,
the railwTays already operate at a substantially higher cost tlan road transport-
Furthermore, the importance of the railways is becoming less and less signifi-
cant.  Tnus the country is becoming increasingly dependent on its hig-.way sys-
tem, and it appears that the trend will continue.



- 8 -
4h.       The improvements in the highwayr system which form the constru-
tion part of the project would i) facilitate the movement of domestic and
foreign goods including foodstuffs by lowuering transport costs and ii) en-
courare higher and diversified agricultural production by providing easier
access to nearby markets.   The total cost of the construction part of the
project is US\12.l mi'lion equivalent of which 80,, would be spent on im-
provement and reconstruction of the seven trunk roads (Nos. 1-7) and the
remainder on tne construction of th;e four feeder roads (a1cs. 8-11).
The Trunk Roads
45.       Apart from the Inter-American Highuay, the most important roads
in El Salvador are those connecting the capit.al, San Salvador, to Acajutla
(No. 1), and to La Libertad (No. 2), and Santa Ana to Acajutla ( o. 3).
San Salvador and Santa Ama are thne twJo largest cities in thle count,ry.
*bdern port facilities were recently completed at Acajutla and it now has
the capacity to 'handle not only a large part of El Salvador's foreign
trade, but also a considerable quantity of cargo originating in or des-
tined to neighrboring countries.   Increased industrial activity is expected
in the port area, including a proposed petroleum refinery and fertilizer
plant.   Although tlhe importance o-f the Port of La Libertad has been some-
what diminished by the new facilities at Acajutla, it is expected to con-
tinue to handle the present tonnage because it is th1e closest port to
San Salvador.
)46.     T.Xcessive grades and sharp curves exist on parts of all three
of the roads mentioned above which reduce the speed and carrying capacity
of vehicles, and increase the hauling time, thereby adding considerably to
the cost of transport.   Some sections are too narrow and too lightly built
to stand up to high speed truck zraffic.   The proposed iqprovemients would
result in substantial savings in transport costs providing roads are de-
signed to accomnodate the rapid growth in traffic wh1ich is taking place.
47.       Additional benefits accruing as a result of the proposed im-
proveniients are i) a reduction in maintenance costs, particularly on Road
r0. 1, where the pavement is presently under almost continual repair,
ii) better communications betwreen the rapidly developing coastal sections
and the populated interior, and iii) easing of congestion and a reduction
in the accident rate, particularly on Road Wo. 1 as it approaches San
Salvador and througnout the length of Road ho. 2 where the traffic is es-
pecially heavy.
V8.       The paving of' Road Iho. L would facilitate coirmLinications betwfeen
the area served by the main road in the north whic. includes Road No. 6 and
the western part of the country w:iich is primarily served by the Inter-
American Highway and Road lo. 1.   A secondary benefit would be the diver-
sion of tb7rough traffic from the congested streets of San Salvador.
49.       Improvenent of roads haos. 5, 6 and 7 is included in the project
in order to stimulate trade betwoeen  1 Salvador and neighboring countries
a-nd thus encourage further progress in the economic integration of the
Central kmerican Republics launched a few years ago.   As El Salvador is the
most industrialized country in thie group, its exports of manufactured goods
to neighboring co-ntries wTilll expand, while at tne same time imports of
toodstuffs will continue to grow.



- ' 9 -
50.       Road No. 5 woou ld provide an improved route for traffic to and from
Honduras and would shorten the travel distance by 16 Ian. At present, traffic
moves over a roundabout section of the Inter-American Highway which because of
its location in an area of unstable soils, is subect to freLIuent failure.  Road
No. 5 would serve traffic not only that between El Salvador and Honduras but
also traffic between Guatemala and the countries to the south, including Hon-
duras. Development of agriculture and cottage industry in the northeastern
part of the country around and north of San Francisco, which is under consider-
ation by the Government, would be facilitated by the improved road.
51.       Road No. 6  aill link El Salvador w,ith the Western region of Honduras
and the Caribbean port of Puerto Cortes. The Western Highway has been greatly
improved under Loan 195-HO, and it is now being extended to the El Salvador
border by the Honduran Government with the finarcial assistance of IDA (Credit
1-HO) and IDE, The estimated cost of the proposed improvement of Road No. 6
is only about one-seventh of the amount required for construction of the Westerr
Highway Extension; but it is very essential since, without this outlay, the
benefit of the investment in the Western Highway Extension, as far as interna-
tional traffic is concerned, cannot be fully realized. For traffic presently
moving from the Western region of Honduras to El Salvador via Tegucigalpa, the
savings in the driving distance would be about 350 km each way.
52.       The present traffic volume on Road No. 6 is limited to about LO ve-
hicles a day.  But with the completion of the Western Highway Extension and the
conseouent growth of trade between El Salvador and Honduras, the vol-ume of traf-
fic should increase ranidly.  On the basis of the present traffic from the West-
ern region to El Salvador, via Tegucigalpa, it is estimated that at least 80
trucks per day would cross the border over Road No. 6. Given through trlaffic
facilities betwqeen the Caribbean and the Pacific, traffic would increase not
only because of the anticipated increase in trade between the two countries,
but also by the movement of Honduran products to the ports of Acajutla and La
Libertad.
53-       Road No. 7 would crovide the shortest and most direct route between
Santa Ana and Guatemala City and would facilitate international trade between
Eastern Guatemala and Western El Salvador.  This road would also serve as a
trunk road for feeder roads included in the Rural Roads Development Program of
the Government of El SalvadorQ The area traversed by the road is particularly
suitable fDr intensification of livestock production and for increased produc-
tion of staple foodstuffs such as corn and sorghum.
54.       The road user savings resulting from the proposed improvement to the
seven roads described above are substantial, as calculations show a benefit-
cost ratio of 1.9 for the year following their completicn (see Table 4). None
of the individual roads show a benefit-cost ratio below 1.5.  These ratios have
been derived from raw data supplied by the Government, and calculations are
based on an estimate of the average daily traffic flow for each road which
includE diverted traffic from existing roads.  The road user savings are con-
sidered reasonable while maintenance savings have not been included for the
reason stated in Table 4. The rate of increase in traffic volume of about, S%



- 10 -
per year estimated by the Consultants and the HighwJay Department is regarded
as reasonable and was used for the purpose of traffic projection.
Feeder Roads
55.       The feeder roads included in this project are renerally located
in the foothills adjacent to the coastal plain.  Two of then would act as
extersions of feeder roads being built under Loan 216-ES. 'he Government
plans to further extend agricuzltural roads under its Rural Roads Develop-
ment Program, which would mainl-y penetrate the northern and more moun-
tainous part of the country.
56.       Hlany of the existisno feeder roads are dry-weather tracks which
become impassable in the w,et season.  Even during the dry season the steep
grades and very rough surfaces oblige truck-s to operate far below capaci-
ty.  Some tracks are virtually impassable to vehicles the year around and
on these produce is carried out by mule back.  The condition of these roads
deters farmers in the expansion of production of crops for market. It also
discourages a switch from coffee to other products which would be consi-
derably more difficult to transport because of their greater bulk in re-
lation to value.
57.       Construction of Road No. 8 would provide improved highway coL-
nections between the best coffee growing area in El Salvador and the
coffee processing plant at Juayua.  In addition, it would stimulate in-
creased diversification of agriculture within its immediate service area.
A proposed change in cropping pattern and an increase in land under cul-
tivation of about l0ro wviould result in an estimated additional annual
gross production of approximately ?4S% ten years after com,pletion of con-
struction.
58.       On Road No. 9, farmers are being encouraged by the Government to
shift production from low-grade coffee to citrus fruits because of the
distress to marginal coffee producers caused by the recent fall in inter-
national coffee prices.  About 6,000 farm households wTould be affected by
the proposed improvement of this road. It is estimated that the gross
value of agricultural production would increase by about 50e ten years
after the projec-t is completed.
.59,      Roads Nos. 10 and 11 would greatly improve access to farmland in
an area 10 to 40 km from San Salvador where coffee, grains, sugar cane
and fruits are grown.  The same may be said for Road NTo. 4 which, although
primarily a connection road,would also provide better access to good agri-
cultural lands. In the areas served by these three roads there are several
thousand small farms whe2e production and productivity would be stimulated
by better access to the San Salvador market.
6o.       Improved access to the service areas of the proposed feeder roads
would stimulate agricultural development by opening up wider markets and by
increasing opportunities for export. The acreage under cultivation in
these areas woilld be expected to increase by almost 25% within a period



- 11 -
of five to ten years after comlpletion of construction.   In addition, an in-
tensification of agricultural production on lands presently cultivated would
be brought about (see Table 5).   However, 657, of the estimated additional
gross production would be derived fron an increase in fruit production.
There is scope for increasing production of bananas for local consumption,
and of avocados and mangoes but most of the increase would be in citrus
fruits.   Considering the difficulties in adapting to citrus production,
which is new to most of the areas, thnis level of production is not likely
to be reached before ten years after cornletion of construction.   At
present there is a good internal market for citrus fruits and tne bulk
of the production would be locally consuimed.   The Ministry of Agriculture
is carrying out field experiments and will furtner assist farmers in the
introduction of citrus fruits.
61.       The total increase in annual gross production withain ten years
after completion of construction is estimated to be in the order of about
_40i7,or an average of about 3.5% per annuiz.   At this rate, the increase in
0           the gross value of production would almost equal the cost of the feeder
roads at the end of the 10-year period.
Aaintenance of the Coastal Highway
62.       The main benefit of this part of the project is thae preservation
of the large investment made in the Coastal Hijhwav.   Further benefits
would include improved reliability of service by reducing to a minimum the
time the hignhway is closed for major repairs following s torms, and savings
in vehicle operating ccsts by maintaining a smooth riding surface.  Ihe
training of local personnel in -modern tec7lniques woild be a key part of the
maintenance program.   It is hoped that improved s1aaintenance practices on
the Coastal iighaway would eventuallyr be reflected throughout the highway
system.
IV.  C0-IHCLUSIOKS AI\TD RBGOiivlEh',DATIONS
63.       The Project is technically sound and would provide a high return
on thae proposed investment.
64.       The Project provides a suitable basis for a development credit
of U3Si8 million to cover its foreign exchange cost.



Table 1
THIRD HTGRHHAY PROJECT
*                              List of Roads Included in the Project
Estimated-c
Ref;                                         Design          Length   Construction
No. (See map)       Name of Road             Standard        Km       Cost
1     San Salvador - Acujutla                Primany           85        1,700
2     Santa Tecla - La Libertad              Primary           23        1,100
0          3      Sonzacate - San Jorge                  Secondary         26          950
L     Sitio Del Nino - Apopa                 Secondary         28           380
5     San Miguel - Agua Salada               Prip.mary         50       1,470
6     El Poy - Tejutla                       Secondary         40       1l,h00
7     El Jobo - Ahuachapan                   Primary           16           380
8     Juayua - Los Arenales                  Tertiary           9           300
9     Teotepeque - Santa Tecla               Tertiary          36           380
10     Santo Tcmas - Cojutepeque              Tertiary          36           6ho
11     San Ramon - Inter-American Highway   Tertiary            15           300
364        9,000
* In thousands of U.S. Dollars equivalent
*



THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
PRIMARY                      SECONDARY                     TERTIARY
It
Design Element     Level Rolling  Mountainous   Level Rolling  Mountainous , Level  Rolling  Mountainous
Design speed (knVhr)        90      70         50     T  80       70         50     '  60       50         40
I                             t
Maximum grades(%)            5       6          7     '   5        6          8     '   6        8         10
t                             I
Minimum radius (meters)    250    200          80     ' 150    100           60     ' 150      100         30
t                             t
"  sight distance (m) 160    130         100      ' 130    100           80     ' 120      100         80
I                             t
Width of roadway (m)        12.0    12.0       12.0        9.5     9.5        9.5   '   8.0      7.0        6.5
Width of pavement (m)        7.3    7.3         7.3   '   6.5      6.5        6.5
I                             I
Width of shoulder (m)        2.35    2.35       2.35  '   1.5    1.5          1.5
t                             t
Width of bridges (m)         8.50    7.90       7.90  '   7.4    6.8          6.8   '            6.0
t                             t
Width of right-of-way (m)           30.0                          20.0                          20.0
Bridge design loading             H15-S12                        H15-512                        H15
t                             t
Type of pavement          Double surface treatment       Single surface treatment   I Compacted select material
I-- - -!
(*) Asphalt concrete for Roads Nos. 1, 2 and 3.
II*-9
H
CD



Table 3
THIRD HIGh1,.AY PROJ.CT
Cost Estimates of the Project
(In thousands of US dollars equivalent)
Foreign
Construction                     Local Cost    Currency Cost  Total Cost
1,  Construction contracts                  3,500             5,500        9,0C0
2.  Design and supervision                    500               625       1,125
3,  Contingencies (about 20%)                 800             1,175       1,975
Sub-total                4,800             7,300      12,100
Maintenance
1.  Maintenance equipment                     _                 285          285
2.  Spare parts                               -                  40           40
3.  IKt*intenance operations                  650               250         900
4. Supervision                                -                  75           75
5.  Contingencies (8%)                         50                50          100
Sub-total                  700               700       l,4CO
Total                    5,500             8,ooo       13,500



Table 4
THIRD HIGHvKAY PROJECT
Trunk Roads - Estimated Benefit Cost Ratios
(Based on estimated traffic in 1966)
Driving     Estimated    Proportion
Distance    Vehicles      of Commer-    Annual 1/   Total Savings j   Benefit
Shortened   per day       cial to to-   Capital       Attributable        Cost
Road No.         Km         1966       tal traffic %    Cost         to Project         Ratio
(thousands US dollars
equivalent)
1-A 3/         -         3i,500            50          41.0           lOi40            2.5
*   1-B             -           620             50          82.0           127.0           1.5
2              -           710             50          80.0           147.5            1.8
3             47            80             50          69.0           150.8            2.2
4             11           230             50          27.6            64.8            2.3
5             16           230             70         106.5           176.5            1.6
6            350            60             60         101.5           157.1            1.5
7             22            60             50          27.6            59.o            2.1
Average   1.9
*   Assuming 6% interest and economic life of investment of 30 years.
g/Based on the following savings per km over a 300-day year:
Roads Nos. 1 and 2 - passenger cars 0.6, commercial vehicles 1.60
Roads Nos. 3 and 7 - passenger cars 2.2¢, commercial vehiches 5.3¢
Santa Tecla-Junction with Inter-American Highway
v4/ Junction with Inter-American Highway-Acajutla
Note:  To be conservative, savings in maintenance costs have not been included.
While some savings will accrue from the proposed improvements, maintenance
costs of roads to be paved would probably increase. As only the pavement
for Roads Nos. 4 and 7 is included in the project (earthworks are being car-
ried out by the Government), the total savings have been adjusted accordingly.
The savings attributable to Road No. 6 are based on the ratio of the cost of
the road as compared to the cost of the Westerh Highway Extension in Honduras
(see paragraph S1).



*   ,,   t                                                                           r     d
EL SALVADOR - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
FEEDER ROADS - EXPANSION OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Estimated Acreage under Cultivation    Estimated Annual Gross Production 1/
5 to 10 years                              10 years                     No. of Farm
after completion       %                after completion                  families
Road                 Present   of the Project   Increase   Present   of the Project         Increase      served
- ha. --------------   -------------- $ 000 ------------  %
8. Los Arenales-Juayua        4,650         5,113            10         460            570          110   24       2,900
9. Teotepeque-Santa Tecla   15,970         18,747            17       1,200          1,800          600   50       6,000
10. Santo Tomas-Cojutepeque  10,419         14,028            35       1,700          2,500          800   47        3,000
11. San Ramon-Inter American
Highway    7,768         9,79             26          850         1,060           210   25       2,100
Total   38,807        47 687            23       4 210          5,930        1,720   41      14,000
1/ At present fam  prices in US dollars equivalent.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(D
VI



'~--Wostorn Hih,5~y                                                           E
5L1                  O)   o e euWe sou,ndoer,                                                                EL  SALVADOR
r v    'i'J                                 ooepocostuce o                                                      THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 75_-Yvd rocsd6i
*1                                                          P5 .e . .                ads ude   cOnstrUCtiOn
Tro 6uot ne/ry cor                                               i                               
~~ >s 7 rf W ) _ ~~~~~~~~~~~H                                                                                   O                   f                        Rai]way 
0         0        20        30        40       50
KILOMETERS
~~~                                L~~~~~O,PO                            C~~~~~~~~~HALATENANGO
fkf   Jv~~~~~~ t tA                 NT  ANAt                                                                       hre  1  Q{D                                                 >8
HIGHF/C Y  1    AHUACHAPANk ic    , 
SAN FRANCISCO                                    'o
m>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                                          C d  C  O                           r  X/  
JUNE I9S2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRDO-1020



