CREDIT NUMBER 31 ES
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1962


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 31 ES
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1962


﻿wotrlopment (Trrbit Ag~rummut
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1962, between RE-
PUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties hereto accept all the provi-
sions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of the
Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this
Agreement set forth or referred to, a development credit
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million dollars ($8,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit. The
amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall be entitled,
subject to the provisions of this Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account (i) such amounts as shall have
been expended for the reasonable foreign exchange cost


﻿4
of Parts B and C of the Project; (ii) the equivalent of
a percentage or percentages to be established from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the As-
sociation of such amounts as shall have been expended by
the Borrower for the reasonable cost of goods required
for carrying out Part A of the Project; and (iii) if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be re-
quired by the Borrower to meet the reasonable cost of the
foregoing; provided, however, that no withdrawals shall
be made on account of expenditures prior to October 1,
1962.
SECTION 2.04. Withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be in such freely convertible currency or currencies
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
select.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associ-
ation a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 17o) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time. The Borrower shall also pay to the Association a
service charge at the same rate on the principal amount
outstanding from time to time of any special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 4.02
of the Regulations.
SECTION 2.06. Servic charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual instalments payable
on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
1972 and ending May 1, 2012, each instalment to and in-
cluding the instalment payable on May 1, 1982 to be one-
half of one per cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each instalment thereafter to be one and one-half per
cent (1 //) of such principal amount.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the
cost of goods required to carry out the Project described
in the Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
methods and procedures for procurement of such goods
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, subject to modification by further
agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associ-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
used in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in
the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering and financial practices.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in
the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed engineering consultants acceptable
to, and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to, the
Borrower and the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by
contractors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation employed under contracts satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the Association.
(d) The general design standards and the type of sur-
facing (including pavement) to be used for the Project


﻿6
shall be as determined by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, subject to modification by further
agreement between them.
(e) Upon request from time to time by the Association,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association the plans, specifications and
work schedules for the Project and any material modifi-
cations subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Association shall request.
(f) The Borrower shall at all times make available by
appropriation or otherwise, for disbursement promptly
as they are needed, all sums which shall be required for
the carrying out of the Project.
(g) The Borrower shall adopt before 1963 an extraordi-
nary budget pursuant to Article 125 of the Constitution
of El Salvador appropriating an aggregate amount of
not less than 12,000,000 colones to be used in the carrying
out of Parts A and C of the Project. The minimum amounts
to be appropriated in such budget for the calendar years
1963 through 1966 for the execution of Parts A and C
of the Project are as follows:
1963                  2,000,000 colones
1964                  3,500,000  "
1965                  4,000,000  "
1966                  2,500,000  "
If the sum expended for carrying out Parts A and C
of the Project in one calendar year exceeds the amount
appropriated for such year, the difference will be deducted
from the amount appropriated for the calendar year 1966,
provided that such deduction would not interfere with
the proper carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project.
In addition an aggregate amount of 1,750,000 colones
shall be made available as a separate item in the Highway
Maintenance Budget for Part B of the Project. This
amount shall be made available in equal sums during the
calendar years 1963 to 1966.


﻿7
Any sums appropriated as provided herein shall be used
only for the purpose for which they were appropriated,
and if not completely expended in one calendar year shall
be carried over to the next calendar year or years and
shall be used only for such purpose.
The obligation contained in this sub-paragraph (g) shall
be without prejudice to the general obligations set forth
in Sections 4.01(a), 4.01(f) and 4.05 of this Agreement.
(h) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the
agency or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof; shall
enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods and the opera-
tions and financial condition of the agency or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit


﻿8
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accor .plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenanee of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.03. The principal of, and service charges
on, the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and
free from, any taxes or fees imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories and free
from all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Bor-
rower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes or fees that shall be imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower 8hall cause the roads in
its highway system to be maintained at all times in accord-
ance with sound engineering standards. To this end, the
Borrower shall engage such technical personnel as shall
be necessary and shall establish and maintain an adequate
number of maintenance field shops.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for


﻿9
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any
subsequent time the Association, at its option, may declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due
and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration
such principal shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b) of the Regulations:
(a) any action necessary to enable the Borrower to employ
the engineering consultants referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement shall have been taken, and such con-
sultants shall have been employed; and (b) an extraordi-
nary budget shall have been adopted as provided in Section
4.01 (g) of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (c) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association: (a) that all action neces-
sary to enable the Borrower to employ the engineering
consultants referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment has been taken; and (b) that all action necessary
for the adoption of an extraordinary budget as provided
in Section 4.01 (g) of this Agreement has been duly and
validly taken.
SECTIONx 6.03. A date 90 days after the (late of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
8.04 of the Regulations.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be May 1, 1967,
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Obras Publicas
Palacio Nacional
San Salvador
El Salvador
and
Ministro de Hacienda
3a Avenide Norte y 13a Calle Poniente
San Salvador
El Salvador
Alternative addresses for cablegrams and radiograms:
Ministro de Obras Publicas
San Salvador
and
Ministro de Hacienda
San Salvador
For the Association:.
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿11
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective iames and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ H. BERNAL H.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
A. The improvement, construction or reconstruction of
seven trunk roads and four feeder roads totaling about
364 km in length. The general location and design
classification of the roads are as listed below:
Trunkc Roads                  Design  Estimated Length
Standard       Km
1. San Salvador-Acajutla     Primary        85
2. Santa Tecla-La Libertad       "          23
3. Sonzacate-San Jorge       Secondary      26
4. Sitio Del Nino-Apopa          "          28
5. San Miguel-Agua Salada    Primary        50
6. El Poy-Tejutla            Secondary      40
7. El Jobo-Ahuachapan        Primary        16
Feeder Roads
1. Juayua-Los Arenales       Tertiary        9
2. Teotepeque-Santa Tecla        "          36
3. Santo Tomas-Cojutepeque       "          36
4. San Ramon-Inter-American
Highway                                   15
364
B. The reorganization, equipping and training of the or-
ganization charged with the maintenance of the Coastal
Highway so that it will be effectively and efficiently
maintained, and the provision of three suitable work-
shops along the Coastal Highway.
C. Engineering services for the construction and recon-
struction of the roads under Part A,.and for the main-
tenance program for the Coastal Highway under Part B.


