Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24801-BIH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0030; TF-24084; TF-21087; TF-23571)
ONA
CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.0 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES PROJECT
November 20, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 20, 2002)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark
KMI.00 = US$ 0.515842
US$ 1.00 = KMI.938577
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHBP     Basic Health Benefit Package
BiH    Bosnia and Herzegovina
DFID     Department for Intemational Development
EHSP     Essential Hospital Services Project
FBiH    Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FHIF    Federal Health Insurance Fund
HIF    Health Insurance Fund
ICR    Inplementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
ILO    Intemational Labor Organization
IMG     International Management Group
IPH    Institute of Public Health
ICB    Intemational Competitive Bidding
IT   Information Technology
KBF     Know How Fund
MOH      Ministry of Health
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
NHA     National Health Accounts
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PHI    Public Health Institute
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PMU     Project Management Unit
RS    Republika Srpska
SITAC     Social Insurance Technical Assistance Credit
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
WBI     World Bank Institute
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:    Armin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader:    Betty Hanan



BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA
Essential Hospital Services Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                 10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                        13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             24
Annex 8. Borrower's contribution to ICR                                           25
Annex 9. Italian Grant Assistance                                                 45






Project ID P044522                                       Project Name: Essential Hospital Services
Team Leader: Betty Hanan                                 TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: November 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Essential Hospital Services                   L/C/TFNuinber: IF-N0030; TF-24084,
TF-21087; TF-23571
Countiy/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                              Region  Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Health (78%); Health.insurance (18%); Central
government administration (4%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/01/1996                             Effective: 03/26/1997        03/26/1997
Appraisal:  06/24/1996                               MTR    11/29/1998
Approval:  12/13/1996                              Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2002
Borrower/Inmplementing Agency:  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/FEDERATION AND RS MINISTRIES OF
HEALTH(PIUS)
Other Partners: GOVERNMENT OF ITALY, GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman,                   Christine Wallich
Sector Manager:      Armin Fidler                              Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:  Betty Hanan
ICR Primary Author:  I'mporter@vamsle.net"
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was prepared almost immediately following the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) as the second of
a series of three projects conceived to assist victims of the war and rehabilitate and reform the health services in
both the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH) and Republic Srpska (RS). The three projects were: (i) War
Victims Rehabilitation Project that was confined to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and closed 12/31/99;
(ii) Essential Hospital Services Project; and (iii) Basic Health Services Project.
The project had twin key objectives. The first was to rehabilitate hospital services, restoring them to acceptable
functional levels and standards. The second was to commence health-financing reforms. The rehabilitation and
restoration of essential hospital services was set in a broader and longer-term context of contributing to moving the
hospital sector towards a more modem and ultimately cost-effective sector although achievement of the latter was
not a specific objective . The set of objectives were to be implemented in each of the separate administrative
regions, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. Although identical in objectives,
administratively there were two separate projects.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
There were five components to the project in each jurisdiction.
Federation of Bosnia and Herzeeovina
Physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of essential hospital facilities (estimated cost US$10.1 million). The
project aimed to support the necessary civil works to restore adequate operational conditions in eight cantonal
hospitals and secondary level facilities at three clinical centers. The project supported facilities that had remained
active during the war. Repairs and reconstruction focused on priority structural, electrical, mechanical and heating
systems for: (i) laundry, kitchen and sterilization facilities; (ii) accident and emergency services; (iii) diagnostic
services; (iv) operating theatres; (v) internal medicine; and (vi) neonatal intensive care facilities.
Medical equipment and supplies (estimated cost US$7.4 million). The project provided the selected hospitals
with their most urgent needs in diagnostic and therapeutic equipment for secondary level care and essential
medical supplies for the duration of the project. Equipment and consumables were provided for radiology,
hematology, clinical laboratory services, surgery, anesthesia, obstetrics and gynecology, internal medicine and
neonatology.
Clinical skills upgrading (estimated cost US$1 million). The project aimed to provide technical assistance,
training and equipment in support of: (i) adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and clinical
protocols for cost effective clinical interventions; and (ii) in-service training of physicians, midwives, and
diagnostic and laboratory technologists.
Health finance reform (estimated cost US$2.9 million). Contributing to the ultimate goal of establishing a
sustainable system for financing the health sector, and in particular the hospital sector, the project supported
technical assistance, training, office equipment, limited civil works and operational expenditures. The emphasis
was on establishment of a credible process, delivering interim products to facilitate attainment of specified
objectives consistent with the Letter of Development Policy in the Transition Assistance Credit, approved by the
Board of Directors in September 1996.
Project implementation support (estimated cost US$0.7 million). Recognizing the extremely tight post-war fiscal
position, the project provided for most of the foreign and local costs of implementing the project.
-2 -



Republika Srpska
Physical repairs at the Institute of Public Health (IPH), Banja Luka (estimated cost US$0.7 million).
Expecting donor funds, the project undertook to provide limited civil works at the IPH that provides support to the
network of hospitals in RS.
Medical equipment and supplies (estimated cost US$6.2 million). The project provided the IPH, 8 pnonty
hospitals and the Banja Luka clinical center with their most urgent needs in terms of repairs to existing equipment,
new equipment, supplies and consumables and equipment maintenance for the project's duration.
Clinical skill upgrading (estimated cost US$0.9 million). Identical to the program in the Federation of BiH.
Health financing reform (estimated cost US$3.0 million). Identical to the program in the Federation of BiH.
Project implementation support (estimated costs US$0.7 million). The project supported all needed investments
and incremental recurrent expenditures for the duration of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                 Cost           Rating
PHYSICAL REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION                     $2,300,000.00        S
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                                 $8,100,000.00        S
HEALTH FINANCE REFORM                                          $3,200,000.00        S
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                             $1,400,000.00        S
3.5 QuahtyatEntry:
The Quality at Entry is rated as Satisfactory. The immediate post-conflict situation posed a highly unusual set of
conditions in which to prepare projects. The need to speedily assess situations, conceive and prepare the trilogy of
projects that emerged - War Victims Rehabilitation, Essential Hospital Services and Basic Health projects - placed
a considerable burden on the responsible staff. Timing was important. The developed assistance strategy and the
effectiveness with which the most critical immediate needs of the sector were addressed and met through a
carefully structured series of responses demonstrated a high level of professionalism. The team had to deal with
social and political antagonisms that were initially difficult to bridge, two separate political entities resulting in two
projects, essentially similar in content but administered independently, and an array of donors some of whom
looked to the Bank for direction and leadership. This second project correctly assessed immediate service delivery
needs and initiated a process through which the sector would be placed on a more sustainable financial basis.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The project aimed to strengthen essential hospital services and initiate steps towards reform health care financing.
Outcomes were not anticipated to have any major impact on the aggregate health status of the population, but
rather to reflect the reestablishment and improvement of services especially within war damaged and affected
facilities and commencement of a financing reform process. The indicators selected at appraisal represented
functional achievements and were sensibly marked by relative simplicity.
The credit was extended twice for a total extension of two years. Extension was required due to the complexity of
the procurement and development of a software to implement a simplified automated management information
system (one insurance fund in RS and 11 health insurance funds in the Federation) for the health insurance funds
in both entities.
-3 -



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Although reference was made during project preparation to the expectation that a more efficient hospital system
would emerge in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the actual outcome of this intention was difficult to
predict in the immediate post-war period. The idea was supported by the Ministry of Health and project inputs
were only directed to cantonal hospitals and clinical training centers, which provided both secondary and tertiary
levels of care. The decision to support only cantonal hospitals will eventually significantly contribute to the
consolidation of the hospital sector. It should be noted that the concept of cantons, and thus cantonal hospitals,
was introduced as a result of negotiations at the Dayton Peace agreement late in 1995. So, in addition to restonng
services at the selected hospitals, the activity contributed to decisions that will lead to a broader reform of the
hospital sector. The completion of civil works and supply of key items of equipment to restore services at a
secondary level of care is rated Satisfactory.
The complimentary effort to undertake a program of upgrading of selected skills and practices suffered a severe
setback when the proposed co-financier, the Government of Iceland, decided to reallocate the indicated resources
(US$750,000) to the War Victims Rehabilitation Project following internal disagreements with its national
consultants. Much to the credit of the Director of the Project Implementation Unit, through personal initiative and
contacts and a small reallocation within the IDA budget, this program continued, also thanks to the generosity of
the host organization. As a result this activity is rated Satisfactory.
Much of the work of the initial work towards health financing reforms consisted of undertaking a series of studies,
including design of the National Health Accounts. These studies were initially undertaken with the support of the
Department of International Development (DFID), U.K. in an informal relationship with the project. Some
digressions emerged over time between project expectations and outcomes and the work bemg performed by the
DFID consultants. The relationship was terminated and the project proceeded to finance consultants to complete
the work. The studies were completed and have contributed to the development of reforms and to enacting
legislation. The latter includes the consolidation of cantonal funds into single funds and the establishment of the
Federal Solidarity Fund on July 1, 2002, under the Federal Government, through which some risk pooling with
individual cantonal funds will be achieved. With the assistance of local consultants, new accounting and financial
management systems continue to be under development. The outcome of this activity whose work is being further
developed by the Ministry of Health under the Basic Health Project and, later, through the proposed Social
Insurance Technical Assistance Credit (SITAC), is rated Satisfactory.
Republika Srpska
With less damaged facilities, the civil works activities were limited to the Institute of Public Health (IPH) and
selected Health Insurance Fund offices. Due to lack of funds no civil works was undertaken at IPH. The main
focus was to restore and improve clinical services at selected hospitals and capabilities at IPH in Banja Luka
through the provision of equipment and supplies. Completion of this activity is rated Satisfactory.
Upgrading of clinical skills and practices never took place due to the withdrawal of financing (see above), and
consequently is rated Unsatisfactory.
The general comments above regarding health-financing reform also apply to the Republika Srpska. Although
there has been less application of the results of this work at this stage, using their own resources, the Health
Insurance Fund has developed an accounting/financing software to be used with the hardware financed through the
project. The results are rated Satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by conmponents:
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
(i)     Physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of essential hospital facilities (rating - Satisfactory). Civil
- 4 -



works were conducted at 11 facilities, including seven cantonal hospitals, three clinical training centers
(larger hospitals that also provided tertiary level care), one other hospital and at the Federal Health
Insurance Fund in Sarajevo. The cantonal hospitals were located at Bihac, Gorazde, Orasje, Travnik,
Zenica, and Livno; the clinical training centers at Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar; and the remaining hospital
is at Jajac. A further cantonal hospital, the State hospital at Sarajevo, was identified for civil works
assistance but, independently, the Government of Greece undertook rehabilitation work at an
approximate cost of $9 5 million. The civil works were of a wide variety based on an assessment of war
damage made through a working group with the assistance of the International Management Group
(IMG). The civil works were of different types but may be divided into two general categories: (a) general
services, including heating and cooling systems, laundry services, kitchens, sterilization units; and (b)
diagnostic and clinical services, including operating rooms, intensive care units and obstetrical and
medical services units.
The civil works that were undertaken were completed in a timely manner and the quality of the work was
fully satisfactory. In several instances, the need for additional civil works was apparent but the
implementing agency was constrained by the lack of funds to undertake such work.
Civil works (and equipping) at three sites (Gorazde, Jajce and Bihac) were financed through Italian Grant
assistance of $3 million (TF 024084). At Gorazde, although the work undertaken was completed to a
high standard, the hospital authorities have yet to commission the new facilities despite being officially
opened in March 2001. At issue is the lack of some basic equipment including a boiler (the room has
been constructed), a fuel tank and a cooler for the air conditioning unit. The cantonal authorities have yet
to make some allocation to fulfill their contribution towards assuring a fully functioning cantonal hospital.
In a letter sent to the Cantonal Authorities during the ICR mission, the Bank urged the authorities to
fulfill their commitment to ensure the optimization of the investments made. Although, originally
classified as a cantonal hospital, Jajce's hospital status is now under discussion since Travnik has been
identified as that canton's hospital. At Jajce, the hospital only serves a small population, in part because a
significant potion of the population has been slow to return to the area. The situation is gradually
improving and it is expected that the present 40 beds, which serve the area now, wil increase to about 150
over the next three to four years as conditions further stabilize. The restoration of physical facilities at
Zenica and Livno hospitals (and equipping) was assisted through a grant by the Dutch Government for
$0.5 million (TF023571) and the IDA Credit.
l    Medical equipment and supplies (rating - highly satisfactory). An assessment was made to identify
priorities for replacement of damaged or existing equipment using a series of criteria including
identification of essential services according to their social and epidemiological impact, condition and age
of existing equipment, uniformity of levels of technology between services and hospitals and size of
populations served. Identification of medical equipment needs and supplies during the life of the project
were identified, procured and distributed in a timely fashion. Equipment for Gorazde, Jajac and Bihac
was purchased using Italian grant funds and for Zenica, Livno, Travnik and Orasje hospitals through the
Dutch Government grant. Acquisition of this equipment has significantly contributed to the restoration of
secondary levels of services at the hospitals. Staff attitudes towards the availability of this new equipment
were universally positive since it has allowed them to better provide services to their patients.
)    Upgrading clinical skills and practices (rating - satisfactory). The decision of the Government of Iceland
to reallocate $750,000 earmarked for financing of this component was a serious setback. Instead, the
funds were allocated to the War Victims Rehabilitation Project that had earlier received assistance from
the Government of Iceland. Using contacts, initiative and a reallocation of $150,000 from the Health
Finance Reform component the program was continued, albeit at a reduced level. As a result, three
groups of four physicians and four midwives/nurses, one group from each clinical training center, each
spent three weeks at the University of South Carolina Clinical Center, Charleston, USA. This institution
provided the training gratis. On their return, a series of workshops were conducted for 65 persons by the
participants on subjects according to their specialty at cantonal hospitals. While it was hoped that the
clinical training program and protocol development could be continued, it was thwarted by lack of
- 5-



funding.
(iv)   Health Finance Reform (rating - satisfactory). This program element was included under the project as an
initial activity designed to provide the basis for further work leading to an adequate and stable national
health sector financing system. The development of a new health financing system anticipated the need
for significant amounts of technical assistance, training and provision of IT equipment and supplies for
the health management information system. As mentioned in section (i) above a limited amount civil
works was undertaken satisfactorily.
A series of studies and workshops were to be undertaken through the use of intemational and local
technical assistance to aid the Govemment in its reforms of the health finance system. These studies and
workshops included: (i) design of a methodology for a basic package of health services; (ii) terms of
reference for the Federal Health Insurance Fund; (iii) study of National Health Accounts; (iv) training
about evidenced based medicine; (v) preparation of 18 health finance policy documents; (vi) preparation
of strategic plan for health system reform; and (vi) WBI workshop about health finance reform in March
1999. This body of work and activities was successfully concluded although not without some delays.
Initially, the intemational technical assistance was provided through DFID. There was no formal
association between DFID and the project, and over time what was being undertaken by them and what
was required under the project diverged. The result was that the project established its own unit in
January 1999 to address this project component and recruited intemational consultants to assist with its
work.
The acquisition and installation of Information Technology (IT) equipment and associated software to
equip and provide 113 offices of the Health Insurance Fund was delayed when a decision by the Bank was
reached to divide a joint tender for both hardware and software into two parts after much of the paper
work had been done for the joint tender. Although the decision to divide the tenders caused delays, in the
end, the decision provided the opportunity to expand the initial objectives of the IT component, for
instance, to simplify the information systems at the cantonal health insurance funds. This decision,
together with the lengthy procedures needed to ensure all cantonal funds agreed to the TOR for software
development and strategy for implementation of this activity led to considerable delays and was the main
reason why the project was extended three times, totaling two years. Eventually, all the IT equipment and
software was delivered and installed at the recipient offices just prior to the credit closing date of June 30,
2002.
The health financing reforms initiated under this project provided the foundation for further reforms being
conducted through the Basic Health Project and will be supported in more depth through the proposed
Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project (SITAC).
Republika Srpska
(i)    Civil Works for Health Facilities (rating - satisfactory). A limited amount of civil works was anticipated
to be conducted at the Institute of Public Health (IPH) at Banja Luka but this was not carried out. It was
expected that additional donor funds would be made available but these did not materialize. Through a
Govemment of Italy grant for $0.62 million (TF 021087), some limited civil works were satisfactorily
carried out at the hospital at Trebinje. Civil works were undertaken at HIF buildings in Banja Luka and
some limited works were carried out at offices in Trebinje, Rogatica and Doboj.
(ii)   Medical equipment and supplies (rating - highly satisfactory). Through the IDA credit, medical
equipment and supplies were procured and supplied for two clinical centers at Banja Luka and Serb
Sarajevo and for eight general hospitals located at Gradiska, Prijedor, Doboj, Brcko, Bijeljina, Nevesinje,
Trebinje (Italian grant financed) and Zvomik. Hemodialysis units were supplied to Dom Zdravija's at
Samac and Gacko and other equipment items were provided for the Institute of Physical Rehabilitation
- 6 -



and IPH at Banja Luka.
(Iii)  Clinical Skills (rating - unsatisfactory). The costs for this activity were not included in the IDA financing
plan but were to be financed through a Government of Iceland grant that was reallocated. No activities
took place under this component.
(iv)   Health Finance Reform (rating - highly satisfactory). The studies that were envisaged under the project
were satisfactonly completed. A variety of courses, workshops , seminars and study tours including one to
Bled in Slovenia which contributed to the Health Financing Reform document were undertaken.
The project procured and installed IT hardware, including 274 PCs and 14 servers at 60 HIF locations
although with delays due to the need for re-bidding of IT hardware since there was no response to the
initial ICB. This has contributed to establishing a simple accounting and financial management system.
Activities under this component contributed considerably to local skill development, for instance through
assisting development of National Health Accounts and a Basic Health Benefit Package.
Based on the work initiated under this project, further reforms were enacted under the Public Finance
Sector Adjustment Credit and will be pursued under the proposed SITAC project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not applicable.
4 5 Institutional development impact:
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The investmnent in restoring and enhancing the clinical capacity at the cantonal hospitals and clinical training
centers has clearly improved the availability and quality of secondary level services at most of the selected
hospitals. At the time of Credit closure, there were two exceptions to this achievement. The first concerned
Gorazde whose facility enhancement was supported by the Italian Government. Prior to the conflict this health
facility was not a hospital, rather a polyclinic. However, through project inputs this health facility can now operate
as a hospital but it is not yet fully commissioned due to some remaining needs that the cantonal authorities were
expected to provide but have failed to do so. However, a process has been put in place to rectify the situation that
may reasonably be expected to be successful fairly shortly. The second concerns Jajce, whose redevelopment was
also financed through the Italian Government grant assistance. Although termed a cantonal hospital, in fact, it is
not, since Travmk in the same canton is the recognized cantonal hospital. The selection of Jajce for investment
was a political choice. Its facilities have been restored but it is underutilized at present due to continuing local
ethnic animosities. Expectations that these may have been overcome in the intervening period of time have
unfortunately not been met. Given the political divisions close to Jajce, it is imnpossible to predict whether
conditions will be moderated to a point when all elements of the local communities may access these facilities.
While it provided a framework for the project, nevertheless, the assertion in the Bank's Technical Annex that the a
modern cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector would emerge as a result from this project was, in
itself, unrealistic, particularly given the post-conflict environment when the project was identified and the type of
inputs, mostly civil works and equipment with some clinical training that were financed. The Federation not only
faced the immediate needs of an aftermath of war but transformation of one model of health care found in the
former Yugoslavia to one that more closely identified with those in Western Europe. Certain aspects of medical
care have been modernized but not yet the way most hospitals continue to be managed and financed, although
some steps have been taken through the introduction of global budgets at two hospitals. The evolution towards the
goal of transforming the hospital sub-sector requires a sustained and complex series of actions. However,
- 7 -



important steps have been taken by virtue of identifying a single cantonal hospital in each canton to serve the needs
of that canton, with the exception of West Herzegovina, reductions in bed numbers, the introduction of global
budgets at two hospitals and an emphasis on primary care that is supported by the third Bank project, the Basic
Health Services Project. What will happen to the remaining hospitals in the Federation has yet to be determined
and is a politically charged subject. Additional steps towards a more sustainable hospital sector have also been
taken through the health financing component. While the upgrading of clinical skills provided a means of
updating staff skills, the activity was limited and there is no sustainable system of ensuring continuous medical
education for hospital personnel.
The studies about health financing and other activities such as the Bank's Flagship course in health sector reform
and sustainable financing, which had to be held in two parts due to bombing in Yugoslavia at the time, have
provided the framework for reforms in health care financing, an ongoing process. Recent new legislation (July 1,
2002) establishing the Federal Solidarity Fund for risk pooling of patients and a recent experiment to introduce
global budgeting of two hospitals are evidence of a shift in thinking and actions towards, for instance, the goal of a
more cost effective and better managed hospital sub-sector. Most important has been the consolidation of health
insurance funds in each canton into a single fund. Although the steps are limited at this point, the initiatives are
promising and laid the foundation for additional Bank support through the Basic Health Project and SITAC,
currently under preparation. Investment in IT for the FHIF will significantly enhance capacity and efficiency in
the management of insurance funds.
Renublika Srpska
Far less physical damage was sustained to the facilities in this region, hence the limited investment in civil works
apart from the Italian Government contribution to Trebinje hospital. Lack of maintenance and investment had led
to a substantial decline in ability to provide adequate clinical services. Investment in new medical equipment has
led to a substantial improvement in the ability to provide a more modern set of clinical and surgical procedures
contributing to a higher standard of medical services for the population. In a few cases the provision of newer
equipment outstripped the skills of the practitioners but these few problems have been overcome. It was unfortunate
that the program to upgrade clinical knowledge and skills was not funded.
Although much work was undertaken, including studies, workshops and study tours abroad, fewer steps had been
taken in the Republika Srpska to utilize this knowledge than was the case in the Federation. Possibly, this may be
accounted for by the fact that the Republika Srpska has a much more coherent political and ethnic structure in
which the need and even desire for innovation and change is less pressing.
Within the Health Insurance Fund structure, considerable progress was made in modernizing its functions.
Technical capacity was significantly increased and, with local technical assistance, software applications for
improved financing and accounting systems were introduced. Increased dialogue between the Federation BiH and
RS is proving to be rewarding as the RS is now discussing the idea of a Solidarity Fund within its jurisdiction
although its conditions are markedly different.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governnent or iniplemienting agency:
The legacy of bitterness and distrust from the period of conflict in the area under the Federation's control still
haunts the region. This has made reaching consensus about issues especially across cantonal boundaries a
particularly difficult exercise although slowly the situation improved over the course of the project. The structure
of government in the Federation was a result of the Dayton Peace Accords of November 1995. The resulting
compromises struck at that time led to a degree of decentralization that has almost no parallel given the size of the
population. The 10 cantons are almost completely autonomous with control over most revenue collection, their
own mini health ministries and their own cantonal health insurance funds. The authority of the Federation's
Ministry of Health is extremely limited and every reform step taken so far has been fraught with politics and a
great deal of negotiation. Nonetheless, through significant efforts by the Federal Ministry, agreement as reached
-8 -



with the 10 cantonal Ministers for Health for a common strategy and TOR for the design of computer software for
a computerized accounting system now installed at the cantonal health insurance funds and the Federal Health
Insurance Fund.
While political tensions between the two governments may still be evident, at a technical level there was increasing
collaboration between the two implementing agencies through the life of the project, a rewarding by-product of the
activity. The level of coordination between the entities started under the project is continues to improve under the
Basic Health Project with implementation of joint contracts.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although expected to make a modest contribution towards overall project costs, in each case the governments
failed to do so with the modest exception of a 25% contnbution to the running costs of the PCU in Banja Luka. In
both cases the poor revenue situation post-conflict has to be recognized. Fortunately, the effect of this failure to
contribute had only a limited effect on the project and other financing issues were more important as indicated
below (para 5.4). In the Federation, most revenue is in the hands of the cantons and most have appeared reluctant
to make a contribution towards restoring health services as evidenced in Gorazde.
In RS, with arguably more opportunity to do so, the desire by the Ministry of Health for reforms in the health
sector appear limited although some small steps have been taken.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implenmenting agency control:
Overall, the implementing agencies have performed well. The PIU in Sarajevo had one director throughout the
project implementation period providing continuity and consistency. The main lapse in continuity in performance
occurred when the Basic Health Project was being processed and the Bank proposed that the PIU for this project
and that of the Basic Health Project be merged into a Project Management Unit (PMU). This seemingly sensible
suggestion was not executed well by the authorities since managerial responsibilities and guidelines were not well
identified and defined, and some inappropriate decisions were made about appointments. Eventually, the issues
were smoothed out and the new PMU emerged as a well functioning body. But, there were some costs to project
performance during the period of uncertainty. The PCU in Banja Luka had three directors over the life of the
project, but during the last two years the PCU has been well managed and the PCU has coordinated
implementation in a very satisfactory manner.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was under-funded for what needed to be done. This was both in absolute terms and also in relative
terms when donor funding that was expected to materialize when the project was identified failed to do so, leaving
a funding shortfall for the identified project. Sectoral needs for this project were initially identified as $121
million. A limited project for $33.5 million was appraised, divided into $22 million for the Federation BiH and
$11.5 million for RS. The Bank contribution of $15 million, divided into $10 million for the Federation and $5
million for Republika Srpska (based on population distribution), was modest in contrast to identified needs.
However, the multiple claims on IDA allocations in a post-conflict situation with a finite pool of resources have to
be recognized. There was also a substantial exchange loss due to changes in the SDR - USD relationship. The
various factors contributed to less being achieved than was originally intended and certainly what the sector
actually required. Most of the under-achievement was reflected in a more limited civil works program. While the
needs of facilities dealing with essential system and clinical services were mainly addressed, it was clear from field
visits that the hospitals overall needs were much greater than the resources allocated or that became available.
While there were a number of expressions of interest among donors during meetings convened under the Bank's
leadership, the willingness to co-finance with the Bank was limited. The project's organization through adopting a
modular approach so that precise units could be identified by a donor was intended to make it more attractive to
donors. The project's finance plan was based on the expectation that bilateral donors would come forward to fill
the financing gap. In the event, this failed to materialize leaving project financing short. There were risks to the
-9-



project in adopting this strategy, nsks that may have appeared acceptable at the time when much donor interest
was expressed in assisting the restoration of the health sector. However, narrower bilateral interests prevailed in
many cases, as a number of plaques recognizing assistance affixed at various hospitals attest. The case of the
Government of Iceland was particularly disappointing although the allocation for this project was redirected to the
War Victims Rehabilitation project, the first of the series of three projects undertaken by the Bank.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilty rating:
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The decision to identify, in principle, a single cantonal hospital and three clinical centers, that offer the highest
level of diagnostic and patient care services, already represents a significant reform of the hospital sector. The
intention of the FHIF to only deal with the cantonal hospitals and clinical centers will mean a consolidation in the
sector and has, in fact, already led to a reduction in bed numbers. The enhanced understanding of health financing
issues and capacity of the FHIF through project investments and inputs may be expected to lead to even further
efficiencies, such as the already introduced global budgeting system for two hospitals and improved accounting and
financial systems that are increasingly linking jurisdictions together. However, there are some serious political
impediments to making the overall HIF system more efficient through consolidation of separate cantonal funds.
The slow return to the normatives of a civil society also auger well for the future. Structural problems in the health
care system are there, a result of necessary political compromise in 1995. The Federal Ministry of Health appears
to be exerting more influence over the cantonal health authorities although this has a long way to go and remains a
concem. The continued presence of the Bank through direct support for the health sector, policy dialogue and
other instruments (Public Expenditure Review, Public Finance Sector Adjustment Credit, and proposed SITAC)
that impinge on the health sector will help to ensure that the sector's strategic development proceeds in appropriate
directions.
Republika Srpska
Perhaps as a result of less political fragmentation and a more cohesive society, the incentive and appetite for
reform of the hospital sector is less pressing in RS. Emphasis has been on restoring and improving function and
less attention has been focused on improving the efficiency of the hospital sector. This may change with the
increased interest in health financing issues, the introduction of improved systems within the HIF structure and the
growth of an interest in internal hospital efficiencies through improved management. External influences, such as
continued support through Bank activities, will play a more significant role here to ensure that gains to date are
reinforced and built upon.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The ongoing Basic Health Project continues to provide intellectual and material support to the sector as it moves
through a transition period from post-conflict devastation and also from an old socialist model of health care to one
adapted to a changed environment that emphasizes a system in which primary care plays a dominant role. These
efforts will be further consolidated with the assistance of the proposed SITAC with which the Bank will support
capacity building for strategic planning and business processes both at the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance
Fund.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was identified and processed under formidable circumstances, perhaps unique in the modem annals of
- 10-



the Bank. Given the prevalent political and social conditions, a totally newly created set of government
institutions and a plethora of donors whose interests were not always clear, it is remarkable that a series of three
projects were identified that have served and continue to serve the health sector in the two political entities as well
as they have. The two political entities also meant, in essence, the preparation of two separate projects. The short
time frame in which this project was identified and prepared, the identification of pnorities and especially the
decision to introduce health financing reforms at this stage reflect a high level of competence. The main blight
was the ultimate project under-funding, a combination of a limited IDA allocation, losses due to exchange rate
differences and some donor decisions not to make a collective effort. Overall, Bank performance in project
preparation is rated highly satisfactory.
72 Supervision:
Although comments were received about some Bank staffing discontinuity in the early stages of the project, on
closer evaluation there seemed to be little supporting evidence for this contention. The project preparation was
conducted by staff from both the Washington and Budapest offices but, soon after the project had been approved,
the Task Manager relocated to Budapest, providing ready access to the project. The Task Manager was not
changed until 1999, so there was, in fact, considerable continuity in the early phases, although an Operations
Officer was reassigned away from the project relatively early on. For the past three years there has been a
consistent team that received high praise from both project implementation units. Particularly noted was the speed
of response by the current Bank's supervision team to requests related to project implementation including overall
guidance and speedy review of documents and issuance of no objections. It should be noted that the initial
problems encountered with project coordination in the Federation were effectively resolved by the merging of the
PlUs of the two projects, which resulted in acceleration of project implementation. Due to events in September
2001, a planned mission was postponed but the supervision team initiated video-conferences and team members
undertook individual visits to offset the postponed mission. The overall rating for supervision is satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The rapid identification of sectoral priorities and establishing a series of activities, that not only met some
immediate needs but set the stage for a sectoral reform process, was a signal achievement given the prevailing
circumstances of mistrust and of future uncertainty at the time of project identification and preparation. The
Bank's leadership was important in conducting discussions about the sector's future and contributed to mobilizing
additional resources some within the project's umbrella, some without. As appropriate in post-war conditions, the
Bank allocated considerable resources to assist with project implementation. With the start of the project, the
appointment of a consultant based in Sarajevo as an implementation specialist during the first two years of the
project made a significant difference to the overall project performance, especially since no one at the project
implementation units had had any prior experience of working with the Bank. Recruitment by the Bank of a local
health specialist also contributed significantly to progress and, in time, Dr. Jaganjac became the project's Task
Manager. Over the past two years, a Bank Financial Management Specialist has been resident in Sarajevo and
again the presence of this person has been of assistance to the PMU in Sarajevo and PCU in Banja Luka. Their
presence, along with strong support from the Bank's supervision teams, has provided more than the usual level of
assistance and meant that implementation proceeded rather better than might otherwise been expected given
overall conditions and the level of in-country inexperience with Bank procedures. In the meantime, local staff
have built confidence in decision making, learnt about the Bank and are now better positioned to manage more
independently. The Disbursement Office at the Bank also came in for praise by the implementation authorities for
their prompt responses in dealing with the project. Improved Bank support was noted, at least in the Federation
BiH, following the Country Portfolio Program Report, in 1999. The main problem that emanated as a result of a
Bank decision was the lack of consensus about how to proceed with procurement of IT hardware and software.
The decision to re-package the procurement into two parts (hardware and software) led to the only significant delay
in project implementation and was one cause of the need to extend the Credit 's closing date. The other cause was
the later signing of the TF 023571 agreement with the Dutch Government on September 28, 2000. The overall
performance is rated highly satisfactory.



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
A Government working group was formed to work with the Bank's team for project preparation. However, given
that in the immediate post-conflict period all institutions and officials were new and that tensions still pervaded the
community, the contribution of the borrower during the project preparation period was perhaps less evident than
what is normally encountered in preparing a project. Given the conditions, performance is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, in both the Federation and Republica Srpska, performance is rated satisfactory. The financed activities
under the project were accomplished fully satisfactorily and in the initially agreed time frame. All available funds
have been disbursed. The delay in Credit closing was mainly caused by changes suggested by the Bank rather than
Govemment performance.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
The implementing agencies have performed well. Some difficulties were experienced through the implementation
period by both the PMU in Sarajevo and PCU in Banja Luka. At Sarajevo, the blending of two PIUs into the PMU
was marred by unclear definition of responsibilities in project management and some poor decisions that might
have been mitigated by better managerial oversight by the Ministry of Health. The staffing levels at the PIU there
were low given the tasks to be performed, especially in the financial and accounting areas. In Banja Luka, the
turnover of directors in the early stages of project implementation caused some discontinuities although in the
latter stages of the project, there was better managerial consistency and leadership.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
While overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, there are two caveats. The first is that both governments
failed to meet their modest contribution to the financing of the project apart from some support to the PCU in
Banja Luka. Within the Federation, the problem of financtal support was compounded by the very fragmented
system of financing and control. The level of cantonal support for the project was weak and the ability of the
Federation's Ministry of Health to influence their decisions was limited. The second was that the main engine for
reform emanated largely from the implementing agencies rather than through inputs from the respective Ministry's
of Health. Having said that, the handicap in exercising influence by the ministry in Sarajevo in its relationships
with the cantons has been noted.
8. Lessons Learned
Donors and secure funding. There was a risk associated with developing a project finance plan based on the
expectation that additional financing may be forthcoming. It was likely a difficult judgement and decision at the
time since a post-conflict environment is highly unusual one for staff to deal with. Already the financing plan
represented but a small portion of the identified sectoral needs, so the fact that additional donor financing sufficient
to cover the financing plan need did not materialize proved to be an impediment to fulfilling the appraised needs.
Working with bilateral donors is frequently time consuming and sometimes marked with uncertainty.
Co-financing and parallel financing arrangements are usually worth working towards, especially as bilateral grant
financing usually complements Bank inputs. However, agreements should be formalized and not informally on an
ad hoc basis. In the case of the cooperation with DFID regarding the health financing system studies, the lack of a
Memorandum of Understanding or some other agreement that would have spelled out expectations might have
circumvented the breakdown in conducting this work. On the Government side, it has to be recognized that in
immediate post-conflict situations the ability of the authorities to make financial commitments may be limited and
note needs to be taken of the policy framework through which decentralization processes are enacted.
Sufficient staff and strengthening capacity. It is essential to ensure that there is a sufficient number of local staff
- 12 -



to implement projects in such situations. It is also essential that the Bank provide sufficient support to new
implementing agencies through training and providing consultants to assist the Borrower. In this case, the local
staff managed but barely initially since they were few and unaccustomed to the needs of the situation, which is not
too surprising under the circunstances. This was offset by the strong backing of the Bank through provision of
consulting services and training but the training should have been at the beginning of the project rather than later.
Certainly, such situations call for more than a usual contribution by the Bank in terms of support, as was the case
here.
Introduction of reform. A post-conflict environment may appear to be an unlikely one in which to introduce
reforms. But, ironically, such times may provide a receptive environment compared with those surrounding static
and entrenched bureaucracies. To use an old adage, "Strike while the iron is hot". The introduction of a process
leading towards reforming how the health system of the future is to be financed and structured and its acceptance,
by some if not by all, is proving to be of fundamental importance. The Bank will need to support and assist the
new governments over a protracted period of time with the reform process but initiating it with this project rather
than waiting until the political situation had calmed has proved to be an important move.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplenmenting agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Three further Bank activities, the Basic Health Project, the Public Finance Sector Adjustment Credit and proposed
SITAC may be expected to contribute in an adjunct way to continued reforms in health sector financing.
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
1. - indicat r/Matr x Ae, '   2,12Projected in iast-PSi                   Actual/LatestEstimatez.   ff
Fully functional clinical service departments.                            All key clinical services at 3 clinical centers
and 7 hospitals in the federabon and 2
clinical centers and 8 hospitals in RS are fully
functional One hospital in the Federaton has
ncomplete services.
Overall policy design for health care system.                              Significant steps have been taken and this
work is still in progress in both jurisdictions.
Output Indicators:
__________________________-_- .  . -  Projected in'ast PSR             ActualULatest Este' aW'
Selected hospitals and diagnostc facilities  24 hospitals provided with medical  24 hospitals and adjunct health facilities have
provided with their most urgent diagnostic  equipment, hemodialysis and laboratory  received identified critical equipment and
and therapeutic equipment and adequate  consumables                        supplies.
supply of essential medical supplies.
Completion of In-service training for  Staff from 4 clinical centers trained  Staff (doctors, nurses and midwives) from 3
physicians, nurses and midwifes                                            clinical training centers in Federation trained.
None from RS.
Inventories of sources of finance end areas  NHA private and public.       Completed in both entities
of expenditures
Composition and cost of altemative forms of Completed in RS and Federaton  Both completed in Federation Solidanty
basic package and solidarity formula                                       concept is still under discussion in RS.
Nationals of BH skiled in development of  Nationals skilled in development of basic  Four nationals trained.
basic packages of care               package.
Preparation of an overall policy document  Completed in Both Entities.     Policy documents completed.
Number of nabonals of BH in each entity with Nabonals trained              96 natonals received training through HF
demonstrable knowledge of evidence based                                  flagship courses and 12 on evidenced based
heahh service management contract                                          medicine.
setting/monitoring and provider payment
aitemaives.
Fully functional general service departments                               General service departments fully functional
at 11 faclities in Federation                                              at 10 facilities In Federabon.
End of project
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
.- Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction               10.03            4.69           46.7
Medical Equipment and Supplies                           7.36             5.29           71.8
Upgrading of Clinical Skills                             0.97             0.14           14.4
Health Finance Reform                                    2.92             1.82           62.3
Project Implementation Support                            0.8             0.94          117.5
Total Baseline Cost                                     22.08            12.88
Total Project Costs   22.08            12.88          58.33
Total Financing Required                22.08           12.88
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement. Method                     -
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB         - Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00           6.40          3.41          0.00         9.81
(0.00)        (1.50)         (0.58)       (0.00)        (2.08)
2. Goods                       2.00           0.00          5.94          0.00         7.94
(1.25)        (0.00)         (3.50)       (0.00)        (4.75)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          1.51          0.00         1.51
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.44)       (0.00)        (1.44)
4. Training                    0.00           0.00          0.91          0.00         0.91
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.41)       (0.00)        (0.41)
5. Recurrent Expenditures      0.00           0.00          1.91          0.00         1.91
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.28)       (0.00)        (1.28)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        2.00          6.40          13.68         0.00         22.08
_    (1.25)        (0.00)         (7.21)        (0.00)       (9.96)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method.                       '     ,
Expenditure CategQry -      ICB '         NCB           Oter          N.B.F.      TotalCost:
1. Works                       0.00           0.73          3.96          0.00          4.69
(0.00)        (0.40)         (2.54)        (0.00)       (2.94)
2. Goods                        3.90          0.00          2.32          0.00          6.22
(2.87)        (0.00)         (1.61)        (0.00)       (4.48)
3. Consulting Services          0.00          0.00          1.06          0.00          1.06
- 15 -



(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.06)        (0.00)       (1.06)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00          0.16          0.00         0.16
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.16)        (0.00)       (0.16)
5. Recurrent                    0.00          0.00          0.75          0.00         0.75
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.70)        (0.00)       (0.70)
6. Pciscollaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        3.90          0.73          8.25          0.00         12.88
(2.87)        (0.40)        (6.07)        (0.00)       (9.34)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ ._ _ __ _ L:Id.   x .  ---     aan   - .  -  ;e;:o t  -  :r;F.  'r.dl:  'IovS.  C eI^.
Physical               2.30               7.73     2.94               1.75   127.8         22.6
Rehabilitation                                                                    _
Medical Equipment      4.30     0.30      2.76     3.55      0.00     1.74   82.5   0.00   63.1
Upgrading of skills    0.97     0.00      0.00     0.14                       14.4
Health finance reform  1.73      0.20     0.99     1.82      0.00     0.00   105.2         0.00
Project management     0.70      0.10     0.00     0.89      0.05     0.00   127.1  50.0   0.00
TOTAL                 10.00      0.60    11.48     9.34      0.05     3.49    93.4   8.3   30.4
- 16 -



ReDublika Srpska
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.  Appraisal     ActualLatest  Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million    US$ million.
Rehabilitalion of Institute of Public Health            0.66           0.15         22.72
Medical equipment                                       6.21           5.46         87.92
Upgrading clinical skills                               0.87           0.00          0.00
Health finance reform                                   2.97           1.28         43.11
Project management                                      0.77           0.45         58.44
Total Baseline Cost
Total Project Costs   11.48           7.34         63.94
Total Financing Required               11.48          7.34     1
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
, -' ,.          .                   Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category      ICB            NCB       .   Othe         N.B.F;     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00           6.4           4.8          0.00         11.2
(0.00)        (1.5)         (0.6)        (0.00)        (2.1)
2. Goods                       5.5           0.00          7.9          0.00         13.4
(3.0)        (0.00)         (3.9)       (0.00)        (6.9)
3. Technical Assistance       0.00           0.00          2.4          0.00         2.4
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.2)       (0.00)        (2.2)
4. Training                    0.00          0.00          1.7          0.00         1.7
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.7)       (0.00)        (0.7)
5. Operations and             0.00           0.00          4.9          0.00         4.9
Maintenance                   (0.00)        (0.00)         (3.1)       (0.00)        (3.1)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        5.5           6.4          21.7         0.00         33.5
(3.0)         (1.5)         (10.5)       (0.00)       (15.0)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methopd'
.j-ExpenditureCategory ICB                 NCB -N..F.
1. Works                       0.00          0.08         0.00          0.50         0.59
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.22)        (0.22)
2. Goods                       0.87          0.00         0.24          0.91         2.02
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.1 1)       (0.11)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         0.17          0.00         0.17
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.09)        (0.00)        (0.09)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
- 17-



(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        0.87          0.08          0.41           1.42         2.78
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.09)        (0.33)        (0.42)
11 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
. .                           ActuallLatest             Percentageiof   praisal
Component -'. 4  KAppraisal Estimate'    ActuaULatestEstimate    r
*          .     Bank   Govt    CoF.   Bank     Govt.    CoF.     Bank -Govt.      CoF.
Rehabilitation of IPH  0.51           0.15                     0.15     0.00            100.00
Medical equipment     4.54            1.67    3.96             1.50    87.22             89.82
Upgrading of clinical  0.87                                             0.00
skills
Health finance reform  2.01  0.023    0.93   0.33     0.019    0.93     16.4    82.60   100.00
Project management    0.74   0.033           0.42     0.029            56.76    87.88
- 18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
-19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of P-roject Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty      Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count        Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/96                    6   TEAM LEADER/ECONOMIST
(1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (3);
HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
IMPLEMENTATION
SPECIALIST (1)
05/96                    8   TEAM LEADER/ECONOMIST
(1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (4);
HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
IMPLEMENTATION
SPECIALIST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/24/96                 6   TEAM LEADER/HEALTH
SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
FINANCE SPECIALIST (2);
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
OPERATIONS OFFICER
(2)
Supervision
07/24/1997               2   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);       S           S
TEAM LEADER (1)
01/06/1999               7   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S           S
(1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
(1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); PROJECT OFFICER (2)
04/17/2000               7   TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH       S           S
ECONOMIST (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
(1); FIN. MANAGEMENT
SPEC. (1); PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1);
PROCUREMENT ANALYST
(1)
09/29/2000               6   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S           S
(1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
HEALTH FINANCE SPC. (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
FIN. MANG. SPECIALIST (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
03/02/2001               6   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER           S           S
(1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
- 20 -



HEALTH FINANCING SPCT.
(1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
(I); FINANCIAL MANG. SPCT
(1); PROCUREMENT
ANALYST (1)
02/05/2002               6   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER            S           S
(I); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); FIN. MGMT. SPECIALIST
ICR
07/22/2002               4    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
OPERATIONS ANALYST
(1); PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCE MANAGEMNT
SPECIALIST (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle              Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks           US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          36.0                     82.6
Appraisal/Negotiation               31.7                     68.6
Supervision                        217.5                    343.8
ICR                                  4.7                     15.4
Total                              290.1                    510.4
-21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H OSU*M O N O NA
O Physical                            O H OSU*M O N O NA
O Financial                           O H *SUOM ON O NA
O Institutional Development           0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
OI Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
D Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N * NA
LI Gender                       OH   OSUOM     ON    *NA
l Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N * NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N * NA
-22-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS OS       Otu   OHU
X Supervision                                       OHS OS       Ou    O HU
z Overall                                           OHS Os       OU    OHU
6 2 Borrower performance                            Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS *s       O u   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     O U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
z Overall                                           OHS OS       O u   O HU
-23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank Documents:
Essential Hospital Services Project, Memorandum and Recommendation to the President, November 1996
Essential Hospital Services Project, Technical Annex, November 1996
Essential Hospital Services Project, Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, February 1997
Essential Hospital Services Project, Interim Fund Credit Supplemental Letter I and 2, February 1997
Essential Hospital Services Project, Italian Grant Agreement and Subsidiary Grant Agreement, July 1997
Essential Hospital Services Project, Dutch Grant Agreement, September 2000
Essential Hospital Services Project, Aide-Memoires, Form 590s and Project Supervision Reports
Policy and Strategy for Health Financing Reform in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, December 1998
Review of the Health Sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, Verdon
Staines, January 2002 (Draft)
War Victims Rehabilitation Project, Implementation Completion Report, June 2000
Project Implementation Unit Documents:
Progress reports.
Miscellaneous disbursement and procurement information
-24-



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to ICR
A.     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES PROJECT
l.     INTRODUCTION
The war destruction in Bosnia and Herzegovina led to the drastic reduction of access to priority
health services at primary and secondary levels. The hospital infrastructure in the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered major damage as a result of the war. The direct (damage due to
shelling) and indirect (absence of maintenance and repair due to lack of resources) effects of the
war have led to a collapse or loss of function of a significant portion of the hospitals. As a result,
the Federation Ministry of Health made a plan to develop a streamlined and efficient hospital
system based on the network of eight cantonal hospitals and three clinical centers.
Program preparation and appraisal were based on several documents and the outputs of the
Working Group of the Federation Ministry of Health. A War Damage Assessment was prepared
with the assistance of the International Management Group (IMG) in April 1996. The War
Damage Assessment was further modified by the Working Group of the Federation Ministry of
Health to include essential hospital services at secondary health care level and various projects
that were parts of a long term program interrupted by the war. It was necessary to identify more
clearly the objectives and nature of needs in order to justify selections on the basis of explicit and
rational criteria for inclusion in the Federation Program (Federation Health Program, Health
Reform and Reconstruction Program in the Federation BiH, Federation Ministry of Health,
January 1996). The Essential Hospital Services Project was prepared as modules of the Essential
Hospital Services Program which was given a positive appraisal by IDA World Bank Working
Group in May 1996.
II.    BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
The Bank followed the Government activities in the creation of Federal Health Program and
Health Reform and Reconstruction Program in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina from
its beginning and gave a positive appraisal through IDA World Bank Working Group in May
1996. A Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and International Development
Association (IDA) was signed on February 6, 1997. The Credit supports the Essential Hospital
Services Project (EHS). In collaboration with donors, the World Bank administered other
country's donations in the form of grants to support the program under the EHS project.
Ill.   PROJECT
Project Objectives
The overall objective of the Essential Hospital Services Project was to support the development of
modem, cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector, as a part of the essential
hospital services Program. More specifically, the Project was developed to: (a) strengthen
essential hospital services at the cantonal level, focusing on the most needy segments of the
population and (b) establish and support the initial steps in health financing reforms.
-25-



Quality at Entry
Quality at Entry was satisfactory. The objectives of the project were clear. They were set in the
immediate aftermath of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the direct consequences of the
war, particularly time loss and dysfunction, were known. This justified the set objectives,
primarnly because the preparations for BiH health reform were underway, as foundations for the
reconstruction program and health development strategy.
Project components:
The Project was structured in five components:
1)     Physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of essential hospital services component
(estimated cost US$10.1 million);
2)     Medical equipment and supplies component (estimated cost US$7.4 million);
3)     Upgrading clinical skills and practices component (estimated cost US$1.0 million);
4)     Health finance reform component (estimated cost US$2.9 million); and
5)     Project management component (estimated cost US$0.7 million)
Revised Components
The original project components were not revised.
Project Financing
Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and International Development Association
(IDA) was signed on February 6, 1997. The Date of Effectiveness was September 1, 1997 and the
original project closing date was June 30, 2000. The Project had three extensions: first extension
was to June 30, 2001, second to December 31, 2001 and third to June 30, 2002.
Sources of Funds
*   ;.          IDA-     -. GITAAN *   GD .3   H GQVERNM.       DONORS       TOTAL
Total            10.00       3.00        0.50          0.70        3.45         17.00
Actual             9.30       3.00        0.50         0.05         3.45         16.30
XDR/US$           0.70                                                           0.70
Total project funds were reduced by about 7% due to exchange rate difference XDRIUS$, and
the scope of the plans was reduced accordingly.
The Technical Annex and Credit Agreement specify the counterpart Government funds in the
amount of US$0.7 million. These funds were not provided during the project life in spite of
regular requests for counterpart funds submitted by EHS Project to the Government. The EHS
Project financed a large portion of costs with the funds earned through the sales of tender
documents and organization of PCU Conference. The problem with counterpart funds was
avoided because staff salaries were shifted from operating costs to the consultant services
category, which reduced the need for the Government counterpart funds.
Credit proceeds and grants were administered by the EHS project implementing agency. Donors'
- 26 -



funds were admnmistered by donor countries, while EHS Project was responsible to prepare
technical specifications and medical equipment content in accordance with the program specified
in the Technical Annex.
Achievement of Objectives
The implementation of the program under EHS Project supported the development of modem
essential hospital services. Project management, with the World Bank assistance and close
collaboration with Federation Ministry of Health strengthened essential hospital services on the
cantonal level and ensured universal access to health services for all population groups.
Outputs by components:
1. Physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of essential hosDital facilities comwonent
Rational and quality criteria could be applied for the evaluation of this project component since
they were condition for the inclusion in the Federation program. These criteria could be used to
determine more clearly the effectiveness of completed civil works.
1) Relation to war: direct and indirect damages: The criteria was applied for total 11 project
sites (8 cantonal hospitals and three clinical centers with complex or limited works in
hospitals).
2) Essential care: higher hygienic conditions of care for patients and more efficient conditions
of work for doctors, nurses and hospital professionals were accomplished in total 11 project
sites.
3) Effectiveness: civil works enabled hospital infrastructure to function immediately after the
completion (10 hospitals and Federation Health Insurance Fund building, except an annex
constructed in the Cantonal Hospital Gorazde, because the final user did not set this unit into
function immediately after the takeover. Reasons for this are beyond the responsibility of
EHS Project implementation unit. (issue to be resolved between the hospital and cantonal
government).
4) Evaluation of financial effects of implemented works is not possible because selective, exact
data are not available with hospitals.
Procurement and implementation of works were generally without major problems.
In some locations, there were delays in completion of works for the following reasons:
*   funds under IDA Credit were not allocated for the preparation of necessary detailed project
documentation for reconstruction;
*   funds allocated for planned works were insufficient, which resulted in the reduction of scope
of works, or change of locations.
Very often there was a high discrepancy between needs, planned activities and available funds.
Since the period between the assessment of the situation and the implementation date was rather
long, so we modified the reconstruction of facilities in accordance with actual needs, user's
requirements and available funds. The duration and quality of implementation depended
significantly on the user's willingness to cooperate and their ability to provide funds to co-finance
the works. Procurement and implementation of civil works was made easier by the training of a
procurement manager at ILO Center, Torino. Our view is that training should be organized prior
to the project implementation start date.
- 27 -



2. Medical equipment and supplies component
The most urgent equipment for secondary level care for the cantonal hospitals, Bihac, Gorazde,
Jajce, Livno, Orasje, Travnik, Zenica and General Hospital Sarajevo, and three clinical centers
Sarajevo, Tuzla and Mostar was planned under tlus project component. The priority was given to
the procurement of anesthesia equipment, instruments and supplies, surgery, gynecology and
obstetrics, intemal medicine, intensive care units, radiology, hematology and clinical chemistry.
Total funds allocated for medical equipment were spent during the project life. Generally, all
bidding procedures for the procurement of medical equipment were implemented successfully.
Procurement experience indicates that small procurements should be aggregated into one large
tender. This will produce better financial effects because large tenders are more attractive for
potential bidders. Also, this approach ensures more rational work of the procurement staff.
We would like to emphasize that EHS project completed all delivenes in accordance with the
Technical Annex. This means that the equipment was delivered even to those hospitals which,
for various reasons, cannot use the equipment adequately (Gorazde, Jajce) because those hospitals
do not function at full capacity. During the preparation of the Technical Annex, i.e. EHSP
program of work, and during the implementation process, those hospitals were expected to
become fully functional and provide conditions for a maximum use of equipment.
All procurement procedures were in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. Problems were
not encountered in procurement of goods. In the initial implementation period, assistance was
provided by the World Bank's procurement adviser at the Resident Mission in Sarajevo.
3. Upgrading of clinical sidlis and practices
The main objective of the component Upgrading of Clinical Skills and Practices was: (a) to
support the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols for
essential clinical interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (b) provide in-service training for
physicians, nurses, midwives and diagnostic and laboratory technologies.
For this component, the Ministry of Health of Iceland planned to provide US$0.75 million. The
Federal Ministry of Health, Bosnia and Herzegovina established the Clinical Skills Development
Group to work with the expert team from Iceland through the PIU in the preparation and
implementation of this component. Unfortunately, the Government of Iceland later informed PIU
that they had cancelled their grant for this project component. EHS Project management
established the partnership with the Medical University, Charleston, South Carolina, USA, which
provided free training for three medical teams from three clinical centers (Sarajevo, Tuzla,
Mostar). Each medical team comprised of two specialists in gynecology/obstetrics, 2 specialists
in pediatrics/neonatal, 2 midwives, 2 pediatric nurses so that total 24 medical professionals had
three weeks training at MUSC in Charleston, during the period from July 1999 to April 2000.
These teams conducted the workshop for gynecologists, pediatrics and nurses from cantonal
hospitals in May 2001. Unfortunately, it was not possible to provide additional funds for this
component. Our view is that sufficient funds should have been provided for this project
component at the beginning from the IDA Credit proceeds. The contribution of this component is
very valuable for this sub-sector.
4. Health finance reform component
Technical assistance
FBiH Government undertook initial steps for the health finance reform in the country. It is a part
- 28 -



of an overall post-war health sector development supported through the PIU EHS health finance
reform component This component was partly financed from IDA credit proceeds. Health
finance reform component was designed so to assist to FBiH Govemrnment, specifically Ministry
of Health, in the initial reform phases.
The broad objective of technical assistance was delivering specific interim products. Detailed
information is specified in Appendix 12 of the EHS Technical Annex. Overall outputs specified
in the Technical Annex were achieved during the project implementation. It was planned that
DFID would complete the health finance reform component as originally agreed between the
Federal Ministry of Health and the World Bank. However, DFID project outputs and timeframe
were not in compliance with the Technical Annex. As a result of this misunderstanding and lack
of coordination we lost precious time to complete the activities in time. After this, EHSP hired a
health finance reform manager in January 1999 to work in the implementation of this
component.
Information System for Health Insurance Institute, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Computer equipment was delivered to cantonal health insurance funds and Federal Health
Insurance Institute. Application software was installed in all cantonal health insurance institutes,
except the Canton Sarajevo, for reasons that are beyond the EHSP responsibility (relationship:
Cantonal Health Insurance Institute - Govemment).
5. Prolect Management
The Essential Hospital Services Project implementation unit was established under the provisions
of the Credit Agreement signed between the State Bosnia and Herzegovina and World Bank, and
a subsidiary Credit Agreement signed between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Federation of Bosnia
and Herzegovina. During the preparation of Basic Health Project, it was decided to change the
original PIU structure and establish PMU-Project Management Unit to integrate both projects
(Essential Hospital Services Project and Basic Health Project). With three extensions of project
closing date, EHSP successfully completed the overall program and spent the credit proceeds in
accordance with the credit agreement. Our view is that restructuring of implementing agencies
should be avoided during the implementation life. Reason for this is that when established,
project implementation units hire project staff based on specific qualifications and project
requirements.
Financial Management
Implementation of financial management was conducted without problems. The work was
performed by one person. Due to lack of financial software and an operational assistant, the
finance manager worked very hard to complete all operations in a timely manner. During the
project implementation life, from 1997 to date, more than 60 applications for replenishment were
processed by all sources of funds.
In September, every project year, we submitted requests to the FBiH Government to include
counterpart funds in the Government budget. Unfortunately, the Government did not ensure
these funds, which affected financial management implementation.
In accordance with the recommendations given by the World Bank finance officer we made the
efforts to maintain minimum funds at local bank accounts that required continuous planning of
funds by the project team. Frequent withdrawals from Special Account, two signatories for every
withdrawal application, resulted in payment schedule delays.  After the CPPR mission,
significant improvements were achieved regarding signing of applications for withdrawals from
Special Account. Compared to the period up to the end of 2001, when withdrawal of funds from
- 29 -



credit account was difficult due to long waiting for signing of applications, signing procedure
was faster and more efficient after the mission. Reporting from Special Account was done in a
correct and timely manner. Correspondence between Deutsche Bank and EHSP Finance
Manager aimed at upgrading of reporting was very frequent. The selection of banks is a
responsibility of the Ministry for Treasury and the project was not allowed to select the bank.
Monitoring of credit accounts in Washington through the Internet was very efficient. This
ensured a very good collaboration with the disbursement officer who performed reporting
obligations in a timely manner. The same communications should be established for monitonng
from Special Account.
Training of the finance manager at ILO Training Center in Torino and training in project
management in post-conflict countries in Austria was a positive and good experience. Based on
our experience, finance managers in future projects should be trained prior to the project
implementation start date.
IV.    SUSTAINABILITY
The Essential Hospital Services Project implementation was completed. The list and number of
cantonal hospitals and clinical centers under the project have not been revised. Implementation
of project components did not directly resolve the organization of secondary health care level. In
fact, a key project implementation objective was to ensure universal access to the secondary
health care for the total population in FBiH. Sound indicators on sustainability of outputs are not
available.
V.     LESSONS LEARNED
1. Due to complexity, partial solutions in the health sector are not possible, since such approach
will not lead to sustainability.
2. Rehabilitation, construction and equipping are not sufficient for the system to be sustainable.
Parallel to this, sustainability of the system should be organized and ensured through
organization and economic - market conditions.
VI.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION
I . More than 1.5 years delay in the implementation of the health finance reform component are
result of an inadequate involvement of UK Government which was supposed to support
technical assistance in this component.
2. Delays in the upgrading of clinical skills and practices component are due to the Iceland
Government cancellation of grant in the amount of US$750,000, ten days prior to the
implementation start date. For this reason three teams comprised of doctors, midwives and
pediatric nurses did not leave for Reykjavik. This caused serious delays because preparatory
activities with Icelandic teams were cancelled. Therefore, EHS project team made efforts to
find new financing source, i.e. a new donor, which was achieved with the Medical University
in Charleston, South Carolina, USA.
3. Merging PIUs into PMU unit, movement into new premises, efforts to appoint a new PMU
General manager, integration of PMU managers in PMU, took more than one year and
affected the implementation of EHS project.
4. PIU-EHS was the organizer of the Fifth Conference of World Bank Project Coordination
Units and Phare Health Finance and Infornation Conference in Sarajevo, September 6-10,
1999, entitled: Coordinating International Aid for Health Sector Reform (Including
Post-Conflict Situation). The Conference was evaluated as successful.
5. Long implementation of the sub-component Information System was a result of very
-30 -



complex activities and changes of procedures. Namely, in May 2000 when tender
documents, comprising both hardware and software, were developed for the procurement
process, the World Bank recommended to split the tender into two separate tender
documents. Preparation of separate tender documents lasted from 5 to 6 months. Further
problems occurred due to delays in contract signing and delivery of hardware which caused
delays in the software implementation.
6. Some delays in implementation of specific phases in different components were a result of
different views between the Federal Ministry of Health and the World Bank.
7. Some implementation problems are due to the FBiH Govemment's inability to provide the
counterparts funds for EHS project, as specified under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
-31 -



Annex.1
Credit Agreement between World Bank and State of Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed on February 6,
1997. Credit proceeds were effective as of September 2, 1997. The onginal project closing date was June 30, 2000.
Project had three extensions of project closing date, first till June 30, 2001, second till December 31, 2001, and
third till June 30, 2002.
Program Components and Cost Estimate
Program Components                                                    Cost Esdimate
. :(UlaSS mrillion)
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction                                   60.7
Medical Equipment                                                            56.5
Upgrading of Clinical Skills and Practices                                    0.9
Health Finance Reform                                                         2.7
Project Management                                                            0.8
Total Program:                                                               121.6
Estimated Project Cost was US$22 million for the following project components:
PJet    Componeht     -I                                .  Id s-s .      .     ma
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction                                   10.03
Medical Equipment                                                             7.36
Upgrading of Clinical Skills and Practices                                    0.97
Health Finance Reform                                                         2.92
Project Management                                                            0.71
Total Program:                                                               22.07
Sources of Funds
1.     IDA Credit                    US$10.0 million
2.     Italian Grant                 US$ 3.0 million
3.     Dutch Grant                   US$ 0.5 million
The following donor funds were not administered by EHSP: (i) The Netherlands Government grant in the amount
of US$3.35 million for medical equipment; and (ii) UNDP grant in the amount of US$0.1 million for design in
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Component.
Total Actual Funds
1.     Total IDA Credit funds (N003-O-BOS) were XDR6.7, or equivalent US$10 million as at the Credit
Agreement date of signing. Due to exchange rate difference between XDR and US$ total credit funds
were reduced by about US$0.66 million. Therefore, total scope of project activities was reduced
accordingly.
Upon the agreement made with the Federal Ministry of Health, non-allocated funds in the amount of
- 32 -



US$1.0 million were reallocated into the civil works category. World Bank issued no objection for
reallocation of the above funds under the Amendment to the Credit Agreement on March 12, 1999.
Project Cost by Categorv
US$
ExpenditureCaregory                                  Estimated Cost        Total Actual Cost'
Civil Works                                               1.90                   2.94
Goods                                                     4.30                  4.48
Consultants Services                                      1.70                   1.22
Operating Costs                                           1.10                   0.70
Non-allocated                                             1.00          _
LOSS XDR/US$                                                                     0.66
TOTAL                                                     10.00                 10.00
Project Cost by Component
US$
Project 'Component       .                           Estimated CoX    -    TotalActiwi Cost
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction                2.30                   2.94
Medical Equipment                                         4.30                   3.60
Upgrading of Clinical Skills and Practices                                       0.14
Health Finance Reform                                     2.70                   1.77
Project Management                                        0.70                   0.89
LOSS XDRIUS$                                                                     0.66
TOTAL                                                     10.00                 10.00
2.     Italian Grant (TF 24084) - The Agreement was signed on July 16, 1997. Grant funds were completely
spent in accordance with the Grant Agreement. The Grant was administered by the World Bank
Reallocation of funds under the Italian Grant was made also. Funds in the amount of US$130,000 were
reallocated from the medical equipment category to the civil works category. Reason for this was to close
the civil works financing structure in the Cantonal Hospital in Gorazde.
Category                                            Estmated ost          TotalActual Cosi
Civil Works                                              1.42                   1.43
Equipment                                                1.57                   1.55
TOTAL                                                    2.99                   2.99
3.     Dutch Grant (TF 23571) - The Agreement was signed on October 5, 2000. Grant funds were spent in
accordance with the Grant Agreement. The Grant was administered by the World Bank
Grant Funds in the amount of about US$6,000 have not been spent.
US$
I                      -      -        _         _-_ I _ I _c   .   -                    I
- 33 -



Category         - - ; -     . -Estimated Cost                           Total Actual Cost
Civil Works                                             0.30                  0.297
Equipment                                               0.20                  0.196
TOTAL                                                   0.50                  0.493
Technical Annex and Credit Agreement specify the Government counterpart funds. The Government did not
provide those funds during the project life, in spite of regular EHSP requests submitted to the Government to
ensure counterpart funds.
Under the said Credit Agreement, the Govermment counterpart funds were planned to finance 25% of operating
costs. Most portion of operating costs was financed by EHS Project from income generated through the sale of
tender documents and organization of PCU Conference.
Proiect Cost by Hospital and Financier
The Essential Hospital Services Project funds were spent for the procurement of equipment and civil works in eight
cantonal hospitals (Bihac, Gorazde, Jajce, Livno, Orasje, Travnik, Zenica and Sarajevo -State Hospital) and three
clinical centres (Sarajevo, Tuzia and Mostar).
EOUIPMENT
PROJE CTSITE 7: -       ' <K  -           IDA CREDIToO    '  -ITALIAN      lb -  *UTCHGRANT
- t':'.',.w ~w - .           .      .   ..      .     .....F -  ~   G;'  n-> RANT*,  - .. . . ,  *~ .- ..~n
CLINICAL CENTRE SARAJEVO                    752,500.00
CLINICAL CENTRE TUZLA                        497,500.00
CLINICAL CENTRE MOSTAR                       552,000.00
STATE HOSPITAL SARAJEVO                      320,800.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL LIVNO                      328,500.00                          43,300.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL ORASJE                     313,600.00                          30,500.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL TRAVNIK                    347,000.00                          68,000.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL ZENICA                     404,000.00                          54,000.00
SARAJEVO- PIU EQUIPMENT                      105,700.00
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT                           817,500.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL GORAZDE                     13,700.00        690,500.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL BIHAC                       13,100.00        348,200.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL JAJCE                       13,700.00        518,700.00
TOTAL                      4,479.600.00      1,557,400.00      195,800.00
CIVIL WORKS
-PROICTSITE                    DA CEDI          . ITALIN '      DUTCH GWANT
i  . N   -;  .     .             - -x  , >.  ;GRAW tNT.  .- 
CLINICAL CENTRE SARAJEVO                      868,200.00
CLINICAL CENTRE TUZLA                         455,800.00
CLINICAL CENTRE MOSTAR                        793,000.00
STATE HOSPITAL SARAJEVO                                                     _
CANTONAL HOSPITAL LIVNO                        120,000.00              -         100,100.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL ORASJE                       178,200.00  _                _
CANTONAL HOSPITAL TRAVNIK                      217,900.00                   _    _     _
CANTONAL HOSPITAL ZENICA                       102,200.00              -         197,200.00
-34 -



CANTONAL HOSPITAL GORAZDE                                    1,053,000.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL BIHAC                                       284,200.00
CANTONAL HOSPITAL JAJCE                               -       102,100.00
RECONSTRUCTION OF FEDERAL FOND OF             202,400.00
HEALTH INSURANCE
TOTAL                       2,937,700.00    1,439,300.00       297,300.00
B.     Republika Srpska
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES PROJECT
I.     PROJECT DATA
Responsible implementing agency: Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Banja Luka
Project Coordination Unit
IDA N003-0 BOS
Credit      Signed  Effecdve CIsing 'Date 'Extension     Closing  . Reallocatiok
'   : ,,   . . ; .          : ^   v ,- , - Approved  Da'leRe'vised: -_     s
1           2        3          4            5            6            7
1 1-Apr-00   30-Jun-01
IDA N003-0 BOS 6-Feb-97 26-Mar-97   30-Jun-00   14-May-00    31-Dec-01    04-May-00
_  15-Nov-01   30-Jun-02
TF  024084      _ _  _              _ _  _ _                              _  _ _  _
t.  Grant  -   Signed ' i;.ffictive Closing Date  Extension1  Closing  JReallocatioi-
'______     _  '_     -          ,'_       _ '.  .,  .  ,,  ..Appr*o..ed  . ;Da,t i&ised.   _____.e.;
I       2 ~<' ^, 3           4          5 1 0         6.            7'
I l-Apr-00   30-Jun-01
TF 024084    16-Jul-97 15-Sep-97  30-Jun-00  14-May-00    31 -Dec-01    12-Dec-00
15-Nov-01    30-Jun-02
TF 021087
',  Grant .  7 Signed  EffeCtive  Closingl Dite  Ei n             Cn ising
Grant --                             I__ _ _ _fi_       _
1 ?   s  * i . 2~. 7Y-                   Approved .Dat      vhed
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  . _   .1.  -  3:   4           5           . 6
TF 021087   08-Sep-99 08-Sep-99  31-Dec-00   14-Dec-00     30-Jun-01
II.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
Project Objectives
- 35 -



The Essential Hospital Services Project was designed as an emergency response to postwar health needs, and as
initial support to health sector reform in Republic of Srpska. MOH prepared an Essential Hospital Services
Program as part of the effort to: (i) reduce the burden of illnesses and deaths, and (ii) provide an effective means
for rationalizing the functions, size, and financing of the hospital sub-sector. The Program was prepared in March
- July 1996 by a Working Group of MOH, with the understanding that IDA and other donors will support coherent
modules thereof as "projects". Essential Hospital Services Project comprised selected priority modules from the
Program. In order to provide flexibility in co-financing decisions by donors and in order to facilitate
implementation, modules of the Program could be defined as follows:
*   By hospital, i.e., the needs of individual hospitals across a range of components; or
*   By component/input category, i.e., the needs of some or all hospitals for a specified component.
In this context, overall objective of the Essential Hospital Services Project was to support MOH strategy for the
medium-term: to develop a modem, cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector. More specifically,
the Project was aiming to:
a) Strengthening of essential hospital services focusing on the most needy segments of the population; and
b) Establishing and supporting the initial steps in health financing reforms.
Proxy indicators set for the project (described in Appendix 11 of Technical Annex) were:
1. Service delivery
1.1 Fully functional clinical service departments (#)
1.2 Fully functional general service departments (#)
2. Health finance reform
2.1 Overall policy document
2.2 Inventories of sources of finance & areas of expenditure
2.3 Composition and costs of alternative forms of a basic package of health services
2.4 Nationals of RS skilled in developing basic packages of care
2.5 Nationals of RS skilled in evidence-based health service management
Project Components
The EHSP was structured into five components:
a) Component 1: Physical repairs at the Bania Luka Institute of Public Health
The Project intended to support limited civil works required by the Institute of Public Health in Banja Luka.
Repairs and reconstruction would focus on the priority structural, electrical, mechanical and heating systems,
including repairs of the roof and the basement. The completion of these activities would improve the capacity of
the Institute to accommodate the equipment used for diagnostic tests, including serology, microbiology and culture,
and sensitivity tests.
b) Component 2: Medical equipment and supplies
The Project provided two Clinical Centers, eight general hospitals, two DZs, Institute for Physical Rehabilitation
and Institute of Public Health with their most urgent needs in the procurement of new medical equipment
according to priorities set by MOH and provision of spare parts and consumables for RS hemodialysis centers for
one year. The Project included equipment for hematology, microbiology, clinical chemistry, anesthesia, surgery,
diagnostic and therapeutic obstetrics and gynecology, internal medicine, hemodialysis, etc.
c) Component 3: Upgrading of clinical skills and practices
The Project intended to support the following: (i) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and
therapeutic protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (ii) in-service training for
physicians, nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory technologists. The Project intended to establish a
- 36 -



Continuous Medical Education Center (CME) in the medical library of the Clinical Center in Banja Luka. It would
start with providing basic skills training courses and progressively would cover more specialized fields of
medicine.
d) Component 4: Health finance reform
The Project supported technical assistance, training, office equipment, and operational expenditures for: (i) the
development of the new health finance system as proposed by MOH; (ii) support to the institutions in charge of
implementing the new system; and (iii) the development and implementation of an automated management
information system at the Health Insurance Fund.
e) Component 5: Proiect implementation support
This Component included all needed investments: salaries, limited civil works, office equipment, cars, staff
training as well as incremental recurrent expenditures for three and a half years of operation. Since the required
management capacity was not available in MOH, an effective Project Implementation Unit has been created within
MOH.
Project Cost
Component                                   Cost (US$)
Physical repairs at the Banja Luka Institute of Public Health          700,000.00
Medical equipment and supplies                                        6,200,000.00
Upgrading of clinical skills and practices                             900,000.00
Health finance reform                                                 3,000,000.00
Project implementation support                                         700,000.00
TOTAL                                                                11,500,000.00
The World Bank financing toward the Project consisted of US$5 million equivalent in the form of an International
Development Association (IDA) Credit (Credit N003-0 BOS), Italian co-financing in the form of a trust fund
managed by IDA in the amount of US$2.16 million (TF024084) and the Italian co-financing in the form of a trust
fund managed by IDA in the amount of US$0.65 million (TF021087). The Project was also co-financed by the
Government of Republic of Srpska in accordance with the signed Development Credit/Grant Agreements at
amount of US$57,192.
III.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
Outcome/achievement of objective
The overall project objective - to support MOH strategy for the medium-term: to develop a modem, cost-effective
and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector - is not achieved. There are several reasons for making such a
statement but a few of them are worthwhile to be mentioned here: a) policy and decision making processes have
been too slow; b) strategic and operational management and planning as well as implementation of health policy
directions (related to hospital sector) in MOH have been inadequate; c) implementation of health laws and
sub-laws have been very weak due to human resource problem in MOH; d) implementation progress of health
financing reform has been slow; e) inappropriate hospital management; f) there was negative attitude (resistance)
towards overall implementation of health sector reform coming from health professionals; and last but not least g)
due to socio-economic problems in RS there has been very strong and constant political pressure on health decision
makers. Furthermore, it should be remembered that EHSP had no project component to support initial important
steps in hospital restructuring/rationalization i.e. regulations, organizational transformation, strategic and business
management/planning, contracting and its monitoring, hospital management training, financial management,
procurement, introduction and implementation of new hospital payment mechanisms with development of different
mechanisms for performance incentives, redundancy/overcapacity problem, hospital quality assurance, clinical
excellence, communication, public/private mix, etc. Knowing the fact that component 3 - upgrading of clinical
skills and practices - wasn't implemented at all (due to reasons mentioned below) the whole picture concerning
achievement of overall project objective is even worse. Bearing in mind all circumstances prevailing at the time
when the project was under preparation and giving the fact that EHSP had no component for the support of initial
- 37 -



steps in hospital reorganization then the conclusion would be that overall project objective was set too high and
was too ambitious.
Secondaiy objectives of the project - strengthening of essential hospital services focusing on the most needy
segments of the population and establishing and supporting the initial steps in health financing reforms - are
achieved. Through six procurement packages the Project provided two Clinical Centers, eight general hospitals,
two DZs, Institute for Physical Rehabilitation and Institute of Public Health with different kind of medical
equipment. Territorially, the whole RS was covered by the project as well as functionally, most of clinical services
departments in health institutions were covered. Attention was given to certain hospital services marked as
"essential" by MOH i.e. general surgery, internal medicine, anesthesiology, hemodialysis, gynecology, pediatrics,
sterilization, laboratory, etc. Approximately eighty different hospital wards were included in the Project. Because
of the lack of data cost-effectiveness at the hospital sector level cannot be measured i.e. how many hospital
procedures by categories and in total was performed by each hospital before the equipment was installed and after
that and what are the real outcomes on RS' population.
Initial steps in health financing reforms have been achieved successfully. Functional outputs mentioned above
were achieved. Regarding NHA and BHBP a problem of institutionalization of these functions is still an issue. Up
to date no decision/consensus was made in key health institutions (MOH, HIF, PHI) on where these very important
functions should be established. Civil works on HIF's four main buildings have been completed successfully. After
successful delivery of computers and telecommunication equipment and its installation at 60 HIF's locations
throughout RS, simply accounting system has been established successfully on new technical platform. It is very
important to mention here that, after the closing date (June 30, 2002) of EHSP, further work on development of
new software application and its installation on new technical platform will be continued in all HIF's offices
(central, branch and municipal units). This particular task wasn't a subject of Essential Hospital Services Project
but in order to get maximum results from the supplied equipment and in order to establish fully automated
management information system in RS HIF it is of vital importance to continue with a Contract realization that
HIF signed recently with one consulting company specializing in the IT field. It is expected that at the end of this
year/beginning of next year this project will be fully completed. In conclusion, all achievements/outputs mentioned
above have created solid ground for further development of health financing reforms in Republic of Srpska.
Outputs by components
Component 1: Physical repairs at the Bania Luka Institute of Public Health
Originally, a financing plan of EHSP didn't envisage money from the IDA Credit to be allocated/disbursed for
purposes of financing physical repairs at the Banja Luka Institute of Public Health. It was expected that donor's
money would come for co-financing of this particular activity. Unfortunately, during the life of the Project, this did
not happen.
An Italian Grant (021087) funded limited civil works - interior works, installation works, doors and windows
replacement - on General Hospital Trebinje. The whole process was out of planned timetable. The original scope
of the works estimated during identification phase had to be revised, due to the different changes caused by
hospital management. Finally, according to revised scope of work and new timetable civil works have been
completed successfully.
Component 2: Medical equipment and supplies
From IDA Credit this component funded procurement of medical equipment and consumables for two clinical
centers in Banja Luka and Serb Sarajevo, eight general hospitals in Gradiska, Prijedor, Doboj, Brcko, Bijeljina,
Nevesinje, Trebinje, Zvomik, Banja Luka, two DZs (hemodialysis units) in Samac and Gacko, Institute for
Physical Rehabilitation in Banja Luka and Public Health Institute in Banja Luka. Two hundred ten pieces of
medical equipment were delivered and approximately eighty hospital wards were covered by the Project throughout
RS. Hemodialysis units in ten hospitals and two DZs were supplied with consumables for one year.
An Italian Grant (021087) funded the supply of prioritized medical equipment to General Hospital Trebinje.
According to local needs assessment management team of the hospital prepared a list of medical equipment to be
- 38 -



purchased through ICB. This list was subject to PCU pnor review and approval. Through supply of 40 pieces of
equipment this activity supported 11 different clinical services departments by which its functional status was
considerably improved. The whole procurement process was in accordance with timetable. One thing should be
mentioned here. Because of very difficult financial situation RS hospitals are facing now it is expected that
problem of maintenance of medical equipment and supply of spare parts and consumables might appear in near
future. This will certainly jeopardize the function and operations of medical equipment delivered under EHSP. In
conclusion this component enabled secondary health care institutions to improve their technical capacities for
provision of high quality (at least from technical point of view) health services.
Component 3: Upgrading of clinical skills and practices
Same as in Component 1, a financing plan of EHSP did not envisage money from the IDA Credit to be
allocated/disbursed for purposes of financing this Component. It was expected donor's money to come for
co-financing of this Component. Unfortunately, during the life of the Project, donor's money hadn't been found.
Component 4: Health finance reform
In health financing reform component all functional outputs as defined in Technical Annex of EHSP were
achieved. The starting point was the document called "Health Financing Reform", drafted at Bled in 1998, and the
end point is the fact that nearly a hundred people from RS were trained in evidence-based health service
management through different courses, seminars, workshops and study tours. Major steps have been taken in the
development of National Health Account and Basic Health Benefit Package. ITA developed appropriate concept
and methodologies (including costing and alternative options for Basic Package) for the design of NHA and BHBP
and provided the training for HIF and PHI employees. Furthermore, at some point local people took an initiative in
the process of development of contract for hospital sector (secondary health care level), when RS HIF organized a
study tour to Slovenia and EU PHARE to UK.
Through the PFSAC Project several outputs were achieved: a) Law on Health Insurance and Law on Contributions
have been adjusted; b) amendments on HIF Statute were adopted; c) inspection department within HIF was
established; d) guidelines for inspectors work was approved; and e) decision on Fund revenue distribution was
adopted by HIF assembly (this document defines precisely proportion on how much money will be allocated on
PHC level versus secondary care level). The PFSAC project has had direct impact on further development of RS
health financing reform especially in terms of creation of new mechanisms and tools for improvement of HIF
revenue collection system.
This component funded limited civil works on four HIF's buildings in Trebinje, Rogatica, Doboj and Banja Luka.
Taking into consideration a lot of problems that occurred during implementation of civil works, i.e., starting date
for CW was at the end of season, Project Coordinator was changed two times during implementation, civil works
did not start on time, unresolved property issues, etc., finally all works have been completed successfully. Also,
this project component funded procurement of computer's equipment, case tools and telecommunication equipment
for HIF. Two hundred seventy four PCs and 14 servers plus other equipment were distributed on 60 HIF's
locations (central, branch and municipal units) throughout RS. Simple accounting system has been established
successfully on new technical platform. In conclusion this component greatly supported HIF in terms of human
resource development (training and skills transfer in NHA and BHBP) and development of automated management
information system, which will improve the capacity of HIF for further implementation of health financing reforms
in RS.
- 39 -



Component 5: Proiect implementation support
Comparing the years (1997-98) when PIU was established and its performance with last two years when new
project management team have undertaken the responsibility for project implementation, the conclusion would be
that there is a big difference today in overall project management as well as in overall project's coordination with
other RS institutions and intemational organizations, NGO's and donors. Management functions such as project's
coordination, planning, financial management, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, internal control, etc. are very
well established. PCU consists of: four medical doctors, who carry leading positions in the team as project
managers; four economists, who are responsible for procurement and financial functions in PCU; one architect,
one administrative assistant, one system administrator and one field officer. In conclusion, today PCU represents a
group of highly qualified professionals, whose commitment for the achievement of project's objectives could be
rated as extremely high.
IV.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
In the past five years very complex political and socio-economical environment in RS had a great impact on
implementation of Govemment's projects supported by WB financing.   The Govemment role in the
implementation of EHSP has been too vague since no serious attempt to make hospital sector reorganization was
made. Although it was planned that Govemment should start co-financing at the very beginning of project
implementation, the first time that the Government Counterpart Funds were approved was in April 2000. From
that time, every month the Govemment's counterpart funding was delayed. The Government did not request any
form of regular reporting to respective Ministries, which was a sign that the Government had no particular interest
in tracking project implementation results. Issues related to the Government of RS were solved at the end of
project implementation but it should be noted that the whole process of getting Govemment's counterpart funding
was very painful. All these factors mentioned above have been outside of PCU control.
Because of the lack of qualified people and having no experience in the implementation of WB projects, PIU staff
faced great challenges at the beginning of Project implementation. A special problem was inexperience with WB
procedures and requirements.  Because of the lack of technical personnel, the preparation of technical
specifications as well as bidding documentation preparation was extremely difficult. Similar to this, until June
2000 PIU had no adequate staff for project management (especially health financing reforms component suffered),
planning, monitoring and evaluation, etc. Specific financial and procurement issues are listed below:
Financial issues
*   From the beginning of project implementation the project did not have accounting software, although very
good accounting evidence was produced in the Microsoft Excel. Lack of accounting software does not
allow automatic production of financial reports, statements of expenditures etc. Therefore, all of the
above mentioned have been produced manually, which caused some occasional typing errors;
*   Procedure for approval of replenishment of the Applications for Withdrawal was long, as too many
signatures were required for it;
*   Until mid 2000 internal control was very weak, but then establishment of strong intemal procedures for
approval of the expenditures considerably improved it;
*   A major issue was the existence of only one Gyro-Account (in local currency) and few different sources of
funds, where all funds were mixed on one gyro account. Therefore, it was a huge problem to correctly
divide paid expenditures per different sources of funds. That caused problems in justifying of
expenditures to the World Bank. This problem was existed until June 2000, when a few sub-accounts were
opened separately for each fund; and
*   Changes in exchange rates caused negative consequences to the Project, as the Project lost
US$265,822.63, during the life of the Project.
Procurement issues
*   The legislative framework in BIH/RS to support commercial procurement practices was at a very low
level;
*   Anticorruption and conflict of interest legislative was at a very low level;
-40 -



*   The knowledge and expenence in World Bank procurement procedures in BIH/RS was at a very low level;
*   There was strong political influence from the Government; and
*   At the beginning of project implementation there was no computerized procurement system.
Co-financing problem was continuing as donor's money has not been identified during the implementation of the
project components. As of closing date (June 30, 2002) financial gap was approximately US$4 million. It was
mentioned above that component I and 3 greatly suffered because no money has been found at donor's side.
V.     BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Borrower performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory; particularly MOH's Strategy for
Health Sector Development and an Essential Hospital Services Program were extremely helpful for the design of
Project and its components. Project preparation was supported by WB technical assistance.
MOH's implementation performance could be rated as Modest. No mechanism for tracking of project activities
and its effects on overall performance of hospital sector was developed. MOH support in the implementation of the
project components was of formal nature. PCU's performance in the implementation of EHSP could be divided into
two phases. By mid 2000 due to reasons mentioned above, PCU's performance could be rated as Modest. As of
June 1, 2000 new management team undertook responsibility for project implementation and in short period of
time PCU achieved much better results in overall project management. In this period of time (June 1, 2000 - June
30, 2002) PCU's performance could be rated as Satisfactory. PCU focused on project implementation as well as on
internal management issues like i.e. procurement, financial management, internal control, communication,
reporting, etc. The Project was under the scope of annual financial audit, delivered by the Price-Water-House and
Coopers, during the whole life of the Project. All Management Letters were with an unqualified opinion.
Regarding procurement, the final Audit Certificate issued by PMAU did not show any material errors, but
represented procurement activities were generally in accordance with World Bank Guidelines and procedures.
VI.    BANK PERFORMANCE
Bank performance during project preparation could be rated as Satisfactory. In very short time WB consulting
team together with MOH officials outlined project objectives and the design of the Project. Giving the explanation
above in section II it should be noted that the project's overall objective was set too high and was too ambitious.
The project's secondary objectives were adequately defined and could reasonably be expected to be met by the
project's components.
Bank performance during project supervision could be rated as Satisfactory. The project was supervised by Bank
staff and consultants located at Headquarters in Washington and in the Sarajevo Resident Mission. During
supervision missions Bank staff thoroughly reviewed and carefully analyzed all issues that appeared in the
implementation of certain activities and provided solutions/advice for overcoming problems.  Bank staff,
particularly in the Resident Mission, provided close support for many aspects of project implementation, mostly for
procurement and financial issues. Bank staff coordinated well with other organizations and donors, especially with
Italian Government and UK DFID. Bank's leverage and involvement in health financing reforms component was
crucial for the achievement of outputs defined in Appendix 12 of EHSP.
VII.   LESSONS LEARNED
Adequate staffing for project management, monitoring and evaluation: This is most important lesson we have
leamt during the life of the Project. One idea for consideration is that, before starting with investment projects in a
country, the Bank should consider an option to provide for the organization and provision of specific training
courses for staff, identified by respective authorities, that would be involved in project implementation. Training
courses would be organized specifically for project management, WB procedures and requirements, procurement,
financial management, etc.
- 41 -



Strengthening procurement and financial management capacities of implementing agency in immediate post
conflict situation are essential to overcome possible problems: In an immediate post-conflict situation, where
the Boffower does not have sufficient skills to implement projects, it is essential to strengthen the procurement
capacity. Establishment of financial department within PCU is very important step and requires strong planning
and preparations before implementation of the Project begin. Development and installation of financial accounting
software at the beginning of project implementation is also very important step since it's very difficult to have good
quality financial work (accounting and reporting) without it. Internal control procedures have to be established at
the beginning of the Project implementation.
Detailed project implementation plan have to be developed before project implementation starts: Equivalent
to BHP Project Operational Manual which proved to be very good tool for project planning, monitoring and
evaluation, each Bank's project in future should have similar document. All technical specifications, TORs,
detailed procurement plan, detailed budget with chart of accounts, etc. that are relevant for project implementation
should be developed in advance.
Future projects of similar nature must include components, whose content should have hospital
restructuring/ rationalization issues: Hospital restructuring/rationalization functions and issues i.e. regulations,
organizational transformation, strategic and business management/planning, contracting and its monitoring,
hospital management training, financial management, procurement, introduction and implementation of new
hospital payment mechanisms with development of different mechanisms for performance incentives,
redundancy/overcapacity problem, hospital quality assurance, clinical excellence, communication, public/private
mix, etc., should be included in similar projects. Otherwise, project objectives that are set too high will not be
achievable if a project doesn't support essential reform directions in a hospital sector.
Donors and other partners with their financial support have to be identified before project implementation
starts: During the life of the project there was a lack of funds (approximately US$4 million). Because of that,
certain project components have not been implemented at all, contributing to the non-achievement of EHSP's
overall objectives. Therefore, it would be recommended that Government and Bank in future put much stronger
emphasis on creating a strategy for attracting possible donors to take a part in the financing of a project.
VIII. CONCLUSION
The Essential Hospital Services Project was an emergency project that responded to immediate postwar health
needs and provided support for initial steps in health sector reform in Republic of Srpska. Project was focusing on
hospital sector (civil works and procurement of medical equipment) and supported initial steps of health financing
reforms.
Since the overall objective of EHSP was not achieved as the EHSP did not support project component 3 nor
components for the support of hospital sector reorganization, it would be very wise to explore different options for
further WB investment in hospital sector reform in RS. Bearing in mind that PCU is implementing Basic Health
Project, in which the central point is development of family medicine model, it should be stressed out that further
development of this model will greatly depend on whether the hospital sector and its functioning and development
is based on considerations of efficiency and cost-effectiveness or not. Therefore, it would be strongly recommended
that the RS Government, with Bank assistance, undertakes a new project that will support further steps in hospital
sector reform in Republic of Srpska.
-42 -



ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
_ _ .  -  _  - Appralsal-w -                  .Xctual/Latest;Estimate * a-Perc-e-ntageaofs- 
.-.~~C       npnn                     Aprai..  stiale -.:  -AuI : - ,  -.t:~- M--  ppraisal . 
F- \  |_           USS ri,il -  . a--US$.rillion ,--
Structural Rehabilitation (of Institute of Public  0.66           0.15               22.72
Health)
Medical Equipment                             6.21                5.46               87.92
Upgrading Clinical Skills                     0.87                0.00                0.00
Health Finance Reform                         2.97                1.28               43.11
Project Management                            0.77                0.45               58.44
Total Project Costs           11.48                7.34               63.94
Total Financing Required             11.48                7.34
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
..~~~~~~~~~~ '-'. i-  E--ProcuremeritMetho6d- .........                   _       -
Categor  .of. enditur .- --.,r.1i.~S,--%P -'          'u r: -  '~ o. .,  _-_rar~ r.!'r'l-- _ _ _  _ in
1. Civil Works                                              6.4    4.8b/           11.2
(1.5)   (0.6)          (2.1)
2. Technical Assistance
a. Policy Development                                          0.3c/            0.3
(0.3)           (0.3)
b. Capacity Building                                           0.6 c/           0.6
(0.5)           (0.5)
c. Project implementation                                      1.5 c/          (1.4)
(1.4)
3. Training, Fellowships and Study Tours                            1.7            1.7
(0.7)           (0.7)
4. Equipment and Materials                          5.5            7.9d/           13.4
(3.0)          (3.9)           (6.9)
5. Operations and Maintenance                                      4.9            4.9
(3.1)          (3.1)
Total Financing Requirements                        5.5    6.4     21.7           33.5
(3.0)  (1.5)   (10.5)        (15.0)
_/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
b/ Procurement of Small Works using Bank Guidelines.
c/ Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
d/ Prudent National Shopping/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregate Federation: US$280,000-RS:
US$210,000) of less than US$200,000 per contract; international shopping (aggregate
Federation: US$5,500,000-RS: US$1,470,000) of less than US$2.0 million per contract;
-43 -



direct contracting (aggregate Federation: US$120,000-RS: US$300,000) for books,
intellectual property, spare parts.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
9~~~ -',<                         7_~   _Mtrfoc7Ii'rment Method' s-    1- m     -, f,-  t
_gfry,qfdped, re        I    --;N         NCB'      LIB     ' - ,-ICB-'"  S   -,Other ,-
1. Goods (Equipment and     1.82    0 13      0.22     1.24     2.05                        5.46
Materials)
2. Civil Works                      0.02      0.74                                0.04      0.80
3. Consultants' Services,                                                0.22     0.11      0.33
Technical Assistance,
Training and Audit
4.Operating Costs                                                            _              0.76
Total                    ,1_ 7.35
Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
tjXA-.-; t  ',t,-- l-.,--~APPr a,isal EstlA-ate- Actu'llatest Estimate-  2 Percnttage'6f-'A 'risal
,7w,<.:_;%.Z',_-2it^W7> * nir\ ~Bank  G  t:', CbEt- Bank:-.' Go't., C`oF.   Bank' . Go-t CoF.-
Structural Rehabilitation (of Institute  0.6                           0.15     0.0    0.0
of Public Health)
Medical Equipment                3.8     0.5     1.8   3.96            1.50   104.2    0.0  83.33
Upgrading Clinical Skills                       0.9                             0.0    0.0    0.0
Health Finance Reform                    0.5    2.5    0.33  0.029     0.92           5.80   36.8
Project Management               0.1     0.7           0.42  0.034   _   _   420.0    4.86    0.0
* Numbers may not add up to total due to rounding.
-44-



Additional Annex 9. Italian Grant Assistance
The Italian Government made a very critical contribution to the success of this project. During the preparation
phase of this project, the Bank was seeking collaboration in financing the project's activities. At that time, only the
Italian Government came forward with grant assistance within the framework of the Bank project although later
the Dutch Government also provided some grant assistance.
There were two grant agreements. The first (TF024084) and agreed in July 1997 was for $5 million with $3
million allocated to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzogovina and $2 million for Republika Srpska. In the
Federation, support was extended to three hospitals, Bihac, Goradze and Jajce, while in Republika Srpska
assistance was extended to reforms in the health financing system. The second (TF021087) for $620,000, and
agreed in August 1999, was earmarked for the physical rehabilitation and equipping of the hospital at Trebinje,
Republika Srpska.
The project was organized in such a manner that the activities financed with grant assistance were targeted so
could be readily identified, so that all the needs at a particular institution were met through one financing source.
All the work conducted through the project using funding provided by the Italian Government was satisfactorily
undertaken and completed. All the grant funds were fully expended.
There was a lingering issue at the cantonal hospital at Goradze. All the work was completed and equipment
provided but the facility was not yet fully operational at the time of the ICR mission. This matter was raised by the
Bank with the Governor of Goradze, Mr. Halilovic Salem, on July 29, 2002 and this was followed up by a letter
from the Bank expressing its concerns and urging commissioning of these facilities. The Bank will continue to
monitor the situation there.
The collaboration between the Italian and the Bank in assisting the health sector was an example of a particularly
effective co-financing agreement. Without the level of commitment by the Italian Government to this project much
less would have been achieved and the beneficiaries, the people of the country, less well served in this difficult
post-conflict situation.
-45 -









Report No.:         24801
Type:     ICR



