Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6991-BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES PROJECT
November 19, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1, 1996)
Unit of currency: Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar (BHD)
100 BHD = US$0.68
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH        Bosnia and Herzegovina
CEE        Central and Eastern European
CY        Calendar Year
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DC       Direct Contracting
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EHS        Essential lflospital Services
ERP        Emergency Recovery Program
ESDF        Council of Europe's Social Development Fund
EU       European Union
FY       Fiscal Year (of the World Bank)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GSP       Gross Social Product
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA(ITF)      International Development Association (Interim Trust Fund)
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IS      International Shopping
MOH         Ministry of Health
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NS       National Shopping
PA       Procurement Agent
PIU       Project Implementation lUnit
RS       Republika Srpska
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TA       Technical Assistance
TFBH        Trust Fund for Reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina
UNHCR         United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO/EURO          World Health Organization European Office
WVR         War Victims Rehabilitation
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President:                       Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director, BH:                 Christine Wallich, EC2DR
Division Chief:                       Ralph W. Harbison, ECI/2HR
Staff Member:                         Olusoji Adeyi, EC 1/2HR



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A. BACKGROUND  ....................................................................I
Health Status, Health System  and Financing Prior to the War ..............                          .........................I
Impact of The War on Health Status and
The Health Care System  ......................................................................2
B. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: FROM EMERGENCY TO DEVELOPMENT ..................... 10
Developing a Medium-Term  Strategy ....................................................................              10
Immediate Interventions to Restore Essential Hospital Services .................................. 11
Developing a Sustainable Health Financing Regime .................................................... 12
C. IDA  ASSISTANCE  STRATEGY  ....................................................................                                14
D. SUMMARY  OF THE  PROJECT ....................................................................                                  16
E  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION ....................................................................                                      17
THE PROJECT IN THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ........ 17
Project Objectives and Components ............................................................                      17
Detailed Project Description ............................................................ 1 9
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Component .......................................... 19
Medical Equipment, and Supplies Component .......................................................... 19
Upgrading of Clinical Skills and Practices Component ............................................ 19
Health Financing Reform  Component ............................................................                   20
Project Implementation Support Component ............................................................ 21
Project Cost and Financing Plan ............................................................                        22
Environmental Aspects ............................................................                                  22
This report is based on the findings of three Bank missions that visited Bosnia and Herzegovina between March and July, 1996. The
missions included Messrs./Mmes. Guy Ellena (Sr. Health Economist, ECI/2HR ), Olusoji Adeyi (Health Specialist. ECI/2HR), Virginia
Jackson (Operations Officer, EC1/2HR), Verdon Staines (Economist, EMTHR), Ilona Szemzo (EC2BA), Volkmar Dunkel and Paolo
Giribona (Consultants, Equipment Specialists), Aynur Kadihasanoglu (Consultant, Planning and Implementation Specialist), Daniel Puzin
(Consultant, Architect and Hospital Planning Specialist), Morag Reid (Consultant, Health Finance and Management Specialist), and
Catriona Waddington (Consultant, Health Finance Specialist). In designing the Project, the Bank missions collaborated with the Working
Groups of nationals in charge of developing the Essential Hospital Services Program in the Federation and Republika Srpska, established by
the respective Ministries of Health. Eleanor J. Dila, Ross Pavis, Edith Santos and Damnika Somasundaram (ECI/2HR) contributed to the
preparation of the report. StaffMember/Task Manager: Olusoji Adeyi (ECI/2HR); Division Chief; Ralph W. Harbison (EC1/2HR);
Country Director for Bosnia and Herzegovina: Christine Wallich; Director: Jean-Michel Severino; Vice President: Johannes Linn; Peer
Reviewers: Willy de Geyndt (ASTHR) and Xavier Coll (HDD).



THE PROJECT IN THE REPUBLIKA SRPSKA ...............................................................                                                23
Project Objectives and  Components ...............................................................                                23
Detailed  Project Description ...............................................................                                     24
Physical Rehabilitation  and  Reconstruction  Component .......................................... 24
Medical Equipment, and  Supplies Component .......................................................... 24
Upgrading  of Clinical Skills and  Practices Component ............................................ 24
Health  Financing  Reform   Component ...............................................................                           25
Project Implementation  Support Component ............................................................ 25
Project Financing  Plan ...............................................................                                           26
F. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION ................................... 27
Implementation  Arrangements ...............................................................                                      28
Development of a New  Health  Financing  System  ......................................................... 30
Simplified  Automated  Information  System  ...............................................................    30
Project Implementation  Schedule ...............................................................                                  31
Procurement Arrangements ...............................................................                                          31
Disbursement ...............................................................                                                      35
Accounts, Auditing  and Reporting ...............................................................                                 36
Supervision  Plan ...............................................................                                                 36
Agreements Reached ...............................................................                                                37
G.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................................... 38
Project Justification  and  Benefits ...............................................................                              38
Project Risks ...............................................................                                                     41
TABLES
Table  la:  Federation:  Estimated Needs for Civil Works and  General Services ............................                                         4
Table I b: Republika Srpska: Estimated needs for civil works and general services . .................5
Table 1 c: Institute of Public Health, Banja Luka, Republika Srpska: Estimated Needs
for Civil Works and General Services .................................................................6
Table 2: Most Frequent Supply Gaps for Drugs, Equipment and Other Items ..............................7
Table 3a: Essential Hospital Service Program  : Estimated Costs By Entity   .                                                  .11...................... 1
Table 3b: Priority  Health  Services and Levels of Service Delivery .                                            ............................................. 15
Table 4:   Summary  of Project Costs by Component and Entity ................................................... 16
Table 5:  Federation  Component - Financing  Plan ................................................................                                  22
Table 6:  Republika Srpska - Financing  Plan ................................................................                                     26
Table 7:   Summary  of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ....................................................... 32
Table 8:   Disbursement Categories ................................................................                                               35
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Federation Hospital Infrastructure (Civil Works)
Appendix 2: Federation Hospital Equipment and Supplies
Appendix 3: Federation Project Cost Estimates
Appendix 4: Federation Project Procurement Plan
Appendix 5: Federation Project Implementation Schedule
Appendix 6: Federation Monitoring and Evaluation Tables
Appendix 7: Republika Srpska Hospital Equipment and Supplies
Appendix 8: Republika Srpska Project Cost Estimates



Appendix 9: Republika Srpska Project Procurement Plan
Appendix 10: Republika Srpska Project Implementation Schedule
Appendix 11: Republika Srpska Monitoring and Evaluation Tables
Appendix 12: Termns of Reference: Technical Assistance for Health Finance Reform
Appendix 13: General Procurement Notice
MAP






A. BACKGROUND
Health status, health system and financing prior to the war.
1.      By the end of the 1980s, the contrast between the development of health care services and the
uneven achievements in health status suggested that systemic problems were limiting further progress in
health outcomes in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH)1. Like most other formerly socialist economies in
Central and Eastern Europe, BH had a well developed health system. The whole population enjoyed
reasonable access to a large network of clinics, hospitals and public health facilities. There were 5.8
hospital beds per 1,000 population and 2.6 doctors per 1,000 population.2 There were 46,000 health
workers, of whom about 65% were professionally qualified. On the one hand, the system had achieved
remarkable coverage and the use of high technology; on the other hand, some key health status
indicators still showed low achievements.
2.      Although substantial gains were achieved in health outcomes during the two decades preceding
the war, the indicators of health status showed a mixed picture. The infant mortality rate had declined
from 56 per 1,000 live births in 1970 to 21 per 1,000 live births in 1991. But, partially due to the weak
primary care network, the percentage of infants immunized against childhood illnesses in 1991 was less
than in other European socialist countries, with the exception of the former USSR. While the age-
standardized mortality rate for communicable diseases, maternal and perinatal causes (87 per 100,000
population) was worse than the average of 52 per 100,000 for other European socialist countries, the life
expectancy of 73 years at birth was at the higher end of the range observed in the region.
3.      The pre-war health system suffered from a number of problems. A supply-dominated
approach to centralized planning had led to the proliferation of large hospitals and heavy reliance on
specialized poly-clinics, with relatively little attention being given to primary health care or family
practice. The centralized decision-making process did not encourage strategic planning to achieve the
most efficient use of resources. Instead, decisions were most often the result of bureaucratic bargaining,
rather than a rational assessment of needs and available resources. Clinical decisions were not based on
considerations of the effectiveness or costs of the desired interventions.
4.      Total health expenditure was around 6.5 percent of GDP, leading to an annual health
expenditure per capita of about $150 in 1991, which was on the high side of the range encountered in the
region. In addition to the large infrastructure, the reasons for these high costs were that payments were
based on norms for number of beds, items of equipment, as well as staff and size of buildings, all of
which combined to create perverse incentives. Over-specialization and high rates of utilization, referrals
and prescribing also contributed to high costs.
5.      As part of the wider Yugoslav system, a health insurance system operated through a parastatal
fund which had limited autonomy. It essentially funded activities carried out by the existing public
services. Funds for health care were raised through a compulsory payroll-based scheme with
contributions from employer and employee, passed through the health insurance fund in Sarajevo. With
a minuscule official unemployment, 74% of health insurance income came from state
1     Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of two entities, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the
Federation) and the Republika Srpska (RS).
2      Source: The World Bank World Development Report. 1993. Investing in Health, Oxford University Press.



- 2-
workers/enterprises, 19% from the pension fund and about 7% from the agricultural/private sector, while
co-payments were low but increasing. A plan to deal with the increasing imbalance between health
sector costs and revenue was initiated shortly before the war. It called for strengthening the role of the
health insurance fund as an independent purchaser, encouraging private provision of health services,
ensuring that the expenditure of the insurance fund did not exceed its income, and increasing co-
payments. The implementation of this plan was prevented by the war.
Impact of The War on Health Status and the Health Care System
6.       The war has taken an enormous toll on the health status of the population. The drastic
reduction of access to priority health services at the primary and secondary levels, decline in living
conditions, malnutrition and intense psychological stress have caused dramatic declines in overall health
status of the population. Based on information from Sarajevo, the infant mortality rate is estimated to
have doubled, reaching an average of 30 to 40 per 1,000 live births in urban areas. The incidence of
serious congenital malformations rose from 0.7% to 2.1% of births during the war. Almost 25% of these
malformations were anencephalus (absence of a brain) or hydrocephalus (excessive water in the brain),
which will have been detected during the pre-natal period and managed appropriately, had access to and
functions of diagnostic and treatment services not been severely constrained during the war. Similarly,
premature births have doubled, while the average birth weight has dropped by more than 20 percent. The
rate of perinatal mortality rose from about 15.3 per 1,000 live births before the war to 38.6 per thousand
during the conflict. Available data on morbidity show a two- to five-fold increase in the number of
people affected by epidemics and communicable diseases (influenza, tuberculosis, hemorrhagic fever),
with a surge in the number of fatal cases. Although reliable figures are scant, the MOH in each entity
reports an increasing trend in infant and matemal mortality, tuberculosis, mental disorders and suicides,
accidents and mortalities due to chronic diseases.
7.       In the area of reproductive health3, family planning as reflected by contraceptive use had never
been given a high priority within the health care system of formner Yugoslavia. As a result, the incidence
of induced abortion was traditionally high. With the onset of the war, the number of induced abortions
increased significantly. Pre- and intra-war data for Sarajevo indicate that abortions increased from a
ratio of one for every birth to at least two for every birth. The high rate of abortions, especially under
constrained medical resources, including the capacity to sterilize equipment, creates the condition for
subsequent low-grade infections and infertility. With the end of the conflict, particular attention will
need to be given to primary prevention of unwanted pregnancies with contraceptives, as opposed to the
dependency on abortion as a secondary prevention technique, as well to infertility counseling and clinical
services.
International Center for Migration and Health. Reproductive Health and Pregnancy Outcomes Among Displaced Women. Report
of the Technical Working Group, October, 1995.



-3-
Hospital Infrastructure
8.      The hospital infrastructure has suffered major damage as a result of the war. The direct
(damage or destruction due to shelling) and indirect (absence of maintenance and repair due to lack of
resources) effects of the war have led to a collapse or loss of function of a significant portion of the
hospitals. The deterioration and destruction of physical facilities have constrained the availability of
good quality physical space for the provision of essential hospital services. Some equipment cannot be
used due to disrupted electrical systems. In some hospitals, uncompleted structures are deteriorating due
to prolonged exposure to the elements.
9.      In the Federation, the destruction of hospital buildings has led to the elimination of about 35%
of beds and the loss of function of many others. About 7,700 hospital beds remain "active" throughout
the Federation (3 beds per 1,000 population). The Federation MOH plans to develop a streamlined and
efficient hospital system, based on a network of eight cantonal hospitals and the three Clinical Centers in
Mostar, Sarajevo and Tuzla. A summary of the methods used for the assessment of hospital
infrastructure is presented below. Detailed estimates are shown in Appendix 1.
10.     Program preparation and appraisal were based on several documents and the outputs of the
Working Group of the Federation MOH. A War Damage Assessment was prepared with the assistance
of the International Management Group (IMG) in April, 1996. The process involved five teams of BH
nationals. Each team included an architect, a civil engineer, a plumbing and sewage specialist, a
mechanical engineer and an electrical engineer. This assessment was a useful source of data for the
appraisal. The War Damage Assessment report was further modified by the Working Group of the
Federation MOH to include various "projects" that the Working Group found judicious, many of which
were parts of a long term program interrupted by the war. It was necessary to identify more clearly the
objectives and nature of the various projects in order to justify selections on the basis of explicit and
rational criteria. The criteria for inclusion in the Federation Program were the following:
*  Relation to war: In addition to repairing direct and indirect war damage, the completion of work interrupted
by war and new construction considered critical were eligible for inclusion in the broad Program.
*  Essential care: Program should focus on essential care, avoiding unnecessary hi-tech equipment. The
facilities should ensure hygienic conditions of care for patients and efficient conditions of work for doctors,
nurses and para-medical professionals.
*  Geographical distribution: The number of functioning beds after completion of civil works should be
approximately uniform across the Federation and less than or equal to 4 beds per 1000 inhabitants. About
10% of the beds should be used for tertiary care.
*  Time: Projects should be implementable within a short period, say 2 or 3 years at most.
*  Effectiveness: Civil works should enable buildings to be effective (i. e., to function and enable workers to
deliver care) immediately after completion.
*  Funding: Beyond the criteria specified, no arbitrary limit was fixed for the Federation MOH Program. It was
clear that the Government and donors had limited resources, hence decisions were based on criteria of need,
relevance to efficient service delivery and prospects for sustainability. The rationale for this approach was



-4 -
that donors will finance the most urgent priorities as functional modules, hence there was no need to set an
arbitrary ceiling on the Program.
11.    Table la below shows the estimated needs for civil works in the Federation. Two broad categories are
presented: clinical services (wards, clinics and operating theaters) and general services (for example, laundry and
kitchen). The needs in the area of clinical services are sub-divided into: rehabilitation of damaged structures,
completion of work already begun and construction of new buildings. The needs in general services sub-divided
into: general service buildings and general service equipment. The presentation of needs by categories, sub-
categories and by hospital provides a basis for the flexible packaging of inputs to be financed by donors while
maintaining a focus on functional service delivery units. The proposed Essential Hospital Services Project in the
Federation was defined from a series of modules identified by the Federation MOH in collaboration with the
Bank.
Table la. Federation: Estimated needs for civil works and general services
Name and location             Estimated cost of required work
of hospital                        (US$ millions)
Wards/clinics/operating theaters   General services
Rehab. of ::Completion::  New      General   General   Total
damaged    of work    building    service    service    for
structures   already              building   equipment hosp*.
started
I Clinical Center, Sarajevo        5.9        10.0        7.6        0.6        0.9      25.0
2  Clinical Center, Tuzla           1.1        2.0        1.7         1.5        0.9      7.2
3  Clinical Center, Mostar          1.1        6.1        1.0        0.0        0.4       8.6
4  State Hospital, Sarajevo        0.9         0.0        0.0         0.4        0.0      1.3
5  Cantonal Hosp., Zenica          0.0         0.0        0.0        0.9        0.5       1.4
6  Cantonal Hospital, Livno        0.0         2.2        0.0         0.3       0.2       2.7
7  Cantonal Hospital, Bihaj        1.2         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.9       2.1
8  Cantonal Hospital, Travnik      0.6         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.6       1.2
9  Cantonal Hospital, Jajce        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.4       0.4
10 Cantonal Hospital, Orasje        0.0        0.0         4.9        0.0        0.6      5.5
11 Cantonal Hospital, Gorazde       0.3        0.0         1.2        0.4        0.7      2.6
Columntotals*                   11.0       20.3        16.4       4.1        6.1      58.0
*Numbers may not add up to total due to rounding
Note: This table shows only the civil works and general services component of the Essential Hospital Services
Program in the Federation. Table 3a shows the total Program costs for each entity.



5-
12.      In the Republika Srpska, the total number of hospital beds is about 5,200, approximately 5 per
1,000 population. About 4,213 hospital beds (4 beds per 1,000 population) are planned for the priority
hospitals identified by the RS MOH. The RS MOH has made initial estimates of the civil works needs,
and, in July 1996, made contact with the IMG with the intention of refining these estimates with the
assistance of the IMG, using professional methods similar to those applied in the Federation. Table lb
below shows the preliminary estimates made available to the Bank by the RS MOH  It is yet to be refined
using the same criteria as those in the Federation. These gross estimates must be refined using explicit
criteria as in the Federation (see paragraph IO).
Table lb. Republika Srpska: Estimated needs for civil works and general services
(Refers to the initial estimate by the MOH of the entire Essential Hospital Services Program in RS)
Name/Location          Broad description of needs as defined by RS MOH       Estimated cost
of facility                                                                  of required
work
(US$ millions)
1. Clinical Center,    Uncompleted building at Paprikovac, plus equipment               30.4
Banja Luka
2. General Hospital,    The RS MOH intends this, a new hospital, to be a Clinical       30.4
Pale.                Center (teaching hospital)
3. General Hospital,   Civil works (repair of war-damaged structures)                    0.7
Gradiska
4. General Hospital,    Civil works (repair of war-damaged structures)                   0.7
Doboj
5. General Hospital,   Civil works (repair of war-damaged structures)                     1.0
Brcko
6. Institute of Public  Civil works (structural rehabilitation)                          1.8
Health, Banja Luka*
7. Institute for Physical  Civil works (structural rehabilitation) and equipment         7.8
Medicine & Rehab,
Banja Luka
8. General Hospital,    Civil works (structural rehabilitation) and equipment            1.5
Bjeljina
9. General Hospital,   Civil works (structural rehabilitation) and equipment             0.4
Zvornik
10. General Hospital,    Civil works and equipment                                       0.5
Prijedor
11. General Hospital,    Civil works and equipment                                       0.4
Foca
12. General Hospital,    Civil works and equipment                                       0.5
Trebinje
Total                                                76.1
Source:Ministry of Health, Republika Srpska,. The list of medical institutions which should be visited by
the international community in order to estimate the possibilities of the reconstruction, 1996.
*: "Institute of Public Health" refers to diagnostic facilities within the institute.



13.      On the basis of available information, discussions with RS MOH counterparts and site visits,
the most immediate requirement for civil works --for which detailed estimates are available --is the
restoration of the Institute of Public Health in Banja Luka, a diagnostic center which provides services to
hospitals throughout the RS, to a fully functional status. Table I c shows the estimated civil works
requirements for this Institute. During the appraisal mission of July 1996, the RS MOH informed the
Bank of its commitment to the rehabilitation of the diagnostic facilities in the institute as a top priority.
Table lc.      Institute of Public Health Banja Luka, RS:
Estimated Needs for Civil Works and General Services
Location/ description    Functions                                          Estimated cost
(US$ '000)
1. Basement            Microbiology,                                             50.0
radiation control and dose measurement
2. Ground floor        Anti-tuberculosis, sanitary chemistry, receiving ward and  72.2
intervention
3. First floor         Hygiene, microbiology, epidemiology, social medicine      69.5
and planning.
4. Flat roof           Protection from the elements.                             367.4
Total                                                                            560.1
Source: Ministry of Health, Republika Srpska. Plan of the repair and equipment for the building of
Public Health Institute of Renublika Srpiska. Banja Luka. July, 1996.
Medical Equipment. Supplies and Pharmaceuticals
14.      The stock of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment was subjected to varying degrees of
disrepair, lack of maintenance and direct destruction during the war. Further complicating the situation,
significant amounts of equipment were transferred from civilian institutions to war hospitals during the
conflict. Although some equipment remain fully functional, a substantial part of the stock has been
affected by a lack of spare parts and scheduled maintenance. Table 2 below shows a categorical
distribution of supply gaps as reported by the International Committee of the Red Cross in a study
involving 68 hospital representatives. The study was conducted between April 1994 and May 1995.
There is a need to restore an adequate stock of equipment for essential hospital services, within the
projected capacity of the health system to sustain these investments.



- 7 -
Table 2: Most Frequent Supply Gaps Indicated for Drugs, Equipment,
and Other Items*
Items/drugs                                Indicated as lacking
No. (%)
Diagnostic reagents                              33 (75)
Laboratory equipment                             33 (75)
Dentistry material                               28 (64)
Blood products                                   27 (61)
Dermatological supplies                          27 (61)
Diagnostic equipment                             26 (60)
Dental equipment                                 26 (60)
Diagnostic agents                                26 (60)
Sterilization equipment                          23 (52)
Antineoplastics/immunosuppressives               22 (50)
Microbiological diagnostic material              21 (48)
Operating theater equipment                      21 (48)
Ophthalmic drugs                                 21 (48)
Immunological supplies                           21 (48)
Vaccines                                          16 (36)
* These were gaps indicated on a given list of 46 drugs, equipment and supplies by 44 respondents
Source: Michael, M. "Medical Supplies Donated to Hospitals in Bosnia and Croatia, 1994-1995'.
Journal of the American Medical Association. Vol. 276, No 5. August, 1996
15.     In March 1996 and July 1996, as part of the preparation of the Essential Hospital Services
Program of each entity, studies of medical equipment needs and sustainable investments in this area were
conducted by Working Groups of nationals established by the Federation MOH and the RS MOH. The
studies used methods and expatriate technical assistance from the Center for Research on Biomedical
Technology in Trieste, Italy, and was actively supported by IDA and the WHO. In the Federation, the
global replacement value of installed medical equipment in the 11 priority hospitals identified by the
Federation MOH was estimated at US$40 million. About a quarter of this equipment is partially or
totally out of order, mainly due to the lack of maintenance, spare parts and consumables during the war.
In the RS, the global replacement value of the installed medical equipment in the nine priority hospitals
and the Public Health Institute, Banja Luka, was estimated at US$22 million. Details of the methods for
the assessment of essential hospital equipment and supplies, as well as the results of the assessment, are
contained in the appendices, and more extensive documentation available in the Project files.
16.     In both entities, the activities in some basic diagnostic and therapeutic services, including
radiology, clinical laboratory and hemodialysis, are largely dependent upon donations of consumable
materials and the delivery of such services, hence service availability is unpredictable. Locai technical
personnel, already working in the hospitals, could assure adequate maintenance of the equipment, if
provided with training, technical documentation and spare parts. The use of local personnel will result in
substantial savings in maintenance costs. Supplies and pharmaceuticals were provided by internationial
humanitarian organizations and NGOs during the war. The principal contributors to pharmaceutical
supplies and stock management have included Pharmaciens Sans Frontieres (PSF) and the World Health
Organization (WHO). These efforts enabled the war-time health care system to meet a substantial
proportion of its essential needs. However, partly due to a weak local stock management capacity and
provision of inappropriate supplies by some other organizations that lacked the technical expertise



- 8 -
needed to determine real requirements, large quantities of expired pharmaceuticals remain in the system
and are currently being identified and destroyed. The Ministry of Health in each entity is currently
conducting activities in support of the development of a policy on pharmaceuticals, with the assistance of
the WHO.
Clinical Skills and Quality of Care
17.     Basic education and in-service training were disrupted by the war. Established curricula could
not be adhered to, on account of damage to infrastructure, insecurity, loss of faculty and the absence of
required textbooks and supplies. In-service training and continuing education were severely constrained,
as the emphasis was on responding to the immediate needs imposed by war-time casualties, and there
was very limited access to professional joumals. Doctors and nurses have not maintained knowledge of
the use of modern, cost-effective medical technology.
18.     The combination of inadequate equipment, loss of some of the most capable professionals and
a weakened educational system has resulted in decreased clinical skills and quality of care in the
hospitals. There is a clear need to ensure that the care provided in hospitals is consistent with modem
and safe practices by restoring and improving upon in-service training for doctors, nurses and laboratory
technologists, and by providing adequate equipment, joumals and books for self-instruction.
19.     Improving the quality of care is important both in practical terms and conceptually. Although
only a limited study of health status and health outcomes in BH was conducted in the preparation of this
Project, emphasis was placed on two other dimensions of quality: structures and processes. "Structure"
refers to the buildings and equipment discussed earlier. The underlying assumption is that without
proper settings and functioning equipment, good medical care cannot occur. From the earlier
presentation of civil works and equipment requirements, it is evident that additional resources are
required to provide adequate buildings and equipment for appropriate care in BH. "Process" considers
not only that medical technology exists, but also whether what is known to be scientifically sound health
care is applied, such as appropriate clinical history, physical examinations, diagnostic tests, justification
of diagnosis and therapy. The assumption is that without proper procedures, good health outcomes
cannot be obtained. Clearly, the process of care in BH needs to be improved to guarantee care of good
quality to the population.
Health Care Financing
20.     The unified financing system collapsed during the war. Three "systems" emerged, two for the
Federation and a separate one for RS. As for the current Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in
Bosnian-majority areas, the insurance fund merged with the Ministry of Health in January 1994. In the
HVO Army-controlled area, a separate insurance fund has been in operation since 1993.
21.     In the Federation, knowledge about the current sources of financing for the health sector is
very patchy. Non-payment of salaries, donations in kind and amassed debts mean that the health system
has been and remains demonetized to a large extent. There are at least seven major sources of financing
for health services in the Federation:
* budget payments from the Federal Ministry of Finance for nine (later 10) institutions in the former
BH Army-controlled areas;
* funds (magnitude unknown and unestimated) originating in, or channeled through, cantons and
municipalities;



*  the health insurance fund in HVO Army-controlled areas;
*  unestimated private out-of-pocket fee-for-service payments for both public and private care;
* international assistance through multilateral and bilateral agencies and NGOs (unestimated);
*  debts (total debts are estimated to be over $200 million); and
*  military funds for war hospitals and clinics (unestimated).
22.     There are substantial differences in resource availability between the areas controlled by the
BH Army and the territory controlled by the HVO Army. Using tentative data for December 1995,
expenditure in the HVO army controlled areas is almost twice that of the BH Army controlled area (6.2
DM per capita per month compared with 3.2 DM per capita per month). Salaries are low throughout the
Federation, but were almost three times higher in the HVO army controlled areas (614 DM per health
worker per month on average) compared to the BH army controlled areas (215 DM) in December 1995.
In March 1996, salaries for health sector workers in the areas formerly controlled by the BH Arrny were
increased to 520 DM per month, but counterparts have advised that these increases have not been fully
sustained since March.
23.     In Republika Srpska, the main institution for health care financing is the Public Health Fund, which
is engaged in the collection and distribution of capital through regional funds that in turn undertake direct
payment to health institutions for services at prices set by the Public Health Fund. These prices are not based
on actual cost and payments to health institutions, and therefore, they do not cover even the minimum needs
of the health system. Salaries declined drastically during the war -- a doctor received, and still receives,
about DM 75 per month. Other health workers receive about DM 45 per month. Money for the Public Fund
comes from compulsory contributions of 14 percent of employees' salaries, paid by employers. In addition,
the government assumes responsibility for the unmet financial needs of the Public Fund, a responsibility that
could not be met during the war.
24 .    Health insurance contributions covered only 20 percent of costs between 1991 and 1996,
whereas all citizens had access to the services in principle. About 2 to 3 percent of the total income of
health institutions came from user charges, while 30 to 40 percent of health institutions' expenditures
were covered by humanitarian assistance (drugs and supplies, food, etc.). The RS MOH plans major
changes in the health financing system, including the introduction of voluntary health insurance in
addition to the existing compulsory health insurance. In this planned system, groups of beneficiaries of
free health services will be restricted to pregnant women, mothers of infants, persons aged less than 15
years or over 70 years, those suffering from infectious diseases or mental illnesses, patients requiring
renal dialysis, and others yet to be specified. The government will be responsible for these groups and
for those unable to contribute to either health insurance fund.



- 10 -
B. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: FROM EMERGENCY TO DEVELOPMENT
25.      With the end of the war, the health sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina faces a triple challenge.
It must: continue to function on an emergency basis for some time; undertake its recovery; and transition
to a modem efficient system. First, and for some time to come, the sector professionals will continue to
live and work under emergency-type conditions. With living conditions still precarious, controllable
epidemics will continue to break out, and health services will still handle larger proportions of
emergency cases and war-related injuries than their colleagues in the average country. Second, the
reconstruction must start without delay. Especially in light of severe resource constraints, this puts an
enormous pressure on sector authorities to prioritize activities and to plan large investments quickly, in
many cases without access to all relevant information. Such plans will have to be guided by the
judicious use of the most reasonable estimates of resource availability and prospects for sustainability.
Third, and highly critical, the reconstruction effort must avoid rebuilding the unwieldy pre-war health
system. This requires that much attention be given to the right balance between modem primary health
care services and high quality but streamlined hospital services.
Developing a medium term strategy
26.      The Federation: Initiating its response to the above-mentioned challenges, with the assistance
of WHO/EURO, the Federation MOH has outlined the guiding principles for the development of a
national master plan for the country's health sector recovery4. This document covers both the short-term
reconstruction needs and the future structure and functions of the health sector that could be achieved in
the medium-term. Five pillars were identified in the master plan: (i) health system design (sector profile,
health financing, administrative and organizational structures); (ii) human resources development; (iii)
development of the infrastructure and basic essentials (physical reconstruction, medical equipment and
supplies, pharmaceuticals, information systems); (iv) public health programs (communicable diseases
and epidemics, non-communicable diseases, nutrition and health promotion, maternal and child health/
family planning, environmental health); and (v) rehabilitation (physical and psycho-social/mental).
These pillars also constitute the framework for the Task Forces that the Federation MOH has established
or intends to establish for specifying the reconstruction and reform master plan.
27.      The Republika Srpska: With the assistance of WHO/EURO, the RS MOH has prepared its
Strategy of Health Development for Republika Srpska by the Year 2000, which outlines the guiding
principles for the development of the health system5. This document covers both the short-to-medium
term goals and the means to achieve the goals in broad terms. It includes a global policy framework and
health situation and trends, targets to be achieved by the Year 2000, development of health care and
insurance systems, public and private mix, drug policy, as well as priorities in health service investment.
Federation Health Program. Health Reform and Reconstruciion Program of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Federation
Ministry of Health. January 1996.
Strateey of Health Development for Republika Srpska by the Year 2000. Ministry of Health, Republika Srpska, 1996.



- 11 -
Immediate Interventions to Restore Essential Hospital Services
28.      Immediate restoration of the most essential quantity and quality of hospital services is a
precondition for improving the overall viability of health services. In order to ensure that immediate
interventions are consistent with medium-term development objectives, short-term investments need to
be and are being undertaken concurrently with a fundamental review of the hospital sub-sector, in
recognition of the fact that hospitals accounted for the vast majority of public sector health expenditure
before the war.
29.      The MOH of each entity has prepared an Essential Hospital Services Program as part of the
effort to: (i) reduce the burden of illnesses and deaths, and (ii) provide an effective means for
rationalizing the functions, size, and financing of the hospital sub-sector. The Programs were prepared in
March - July 1996 by Working Groups of BH health professionals, with the understanding that IDA and
other donors will support coherent modules thereof as "projects". The proposed Essential Hospital
Services Project comprises selected priority modules from the Program of each entity. In order to
provide flexibility in co-financing decisions by donors and in order to facilitate implementation, modules
of the Program for each entity can be defined as follows:
*  by hospital, i.e., the needs of individual hospitals across a range of components; or
*  by component/input category, i.e., the needs of some or all hospitals for a specified component.
30.    The principle for decision making on modules to be implemented is that major donor inputs
finance activities resulting in functional service delivery units. However, the specific combination of
modules remains subject to change, in view of the variations among potential donor contributions in
terms of amount, interests, geographical foci, timing and technical expertise. Table 3a below shows the
estimate Program needs by component and by entity. The physical rehabilitation and reconstruction
estimates for RS are subject to revision following further professional assessment by the IMG, as
requested by the RS MOH in July 1996.
Table 3a. Essential Hospital Program: Estimated Costs By Entity
Estimated cost (US$ million) *
Program Component        Federation    Republika         Total by
Srpska         component
Physical rehabilitation and         60.7         42.8                103.5
reconstruction
Medical equipment and supplies      56.5         23.3                 79.8
Clinical skills development          0.9          0.9                  1.8
Health finance reform                2.7          2.9                  5.7
Program management                   0.8          0.8                  1.6
Program total by entity            121.6          70.0               191.6
Proposed Project cost               22.0          11.5                33.5
* Numbers may not add up to total due to rounding
31.      Table 3b (Priority Health Services and Levels of Service Delivery) illustrates the expected
roles of secondary-level hospital services in: (i) meeting the needs of the most epidemiologically



- 12 -
vulnerable segments of the population; (ii) serving as the functional linkage between primary care and
tertiary care. Secondary-level hospital services will, for example, provide back-up for the future
primary health care being defined by the MOH of each entity. For example, where a screening test at
the sub-hospital level shows that a woman has pre-invasive cancer of the cervix at the sub-hospital level,
there will be appropriate treatment at the secondary hospital level.
Developing a sustainable health care financing regime
32.     The Federation: The Federation plans to introduce new heath financing arrangements in the
medium- to long-term, as stated by the Government of BH in the Letter of Development Policy dated
May 15, 1995 (Transition Assistance Credit, Report and Recommendation of the President of the
International Development Association, Number P-691 1-BIH, August 14, 1996). The plan calls for the
establishment of a three-tiered system of health insurance. The first tier will ensure that all people have
access to a Federation-specified package of basic services that is uniform across the Federation. At the
option of each canton, a second compulsory tier will provide coverage for a canton-specified
supplementary package of health care, financed by a mandatory payroll tax. A third tier of voluntary
private insurance, financed by private premiums, will cover enhanced amenities of care and additional
services not included under the compulsory services. Compulsory insurance will be managed and
administered at the cantonal level. Nevertheless, this will occur within Federation guidelines. Uniform
data reporting requirements for service utilization, for health revenue and expenditure patterns, and for
standard indicators of health sector inputs, outcomes and management will apply to all cantons. Other
guidelines will relate to service use outside the canton in which an individual is insured and to the
operation of cantonal insurance organizations.
33.     The first tier will be funded through a Federation Health Fund, to be financed from two
sources. First, a nominal contribution from the payroll tax will be paid into a Federation Health Fund.
Second, matching transfers from the budget, up to a limited amount per month, could be made to the
Fund. The combined funds from both sources will be divided on a per capita basis and returned to the
cantons, to be used for financing basic health services under Tier I of the new insurance arrangements.
The Government of BH has undertaken to "ensure that any new health insurance legislation provides for
the continued existence and function of this fund."
34.      Republika Srpska: According to the "Strategy of Health Development for Republika Srpska
by the Year 2000", the health insurance system in RS will aim to achieve a balance between health care
needs on the one hand and the limited financial resources on the other. The RS MOH plans to have one
compulsory insurance system and optional private insurance systems. The compulsory system will cover
the entire population, with an administrative structure comprising one Public Health Fund (the health
insurance fund) and eight branch offices. In this scenario, all resources will pass through the central
Fund. The branch (municipal) offices will pay, inter alia, for maternity clinics, travel costs for referred
patients, and free aids for children, such as spectacles and orthopedic devices. Prices will be determined
by the central Fund. Contributions will be paid by employees and employers for the employed and their
families - 28 percent of salaries, with equal shares paid by employer and employee. Self-employed
people and farmers will also pay contributions. The RS Government will pay for those with low income
(undefined), invalids and indigent families of soldiers killed during the war, as well as other population
groups exempt from insurance contributions and from co-payments. At this stage, little or no financial



- 13 -
projections underpinning the RS MOH's intentions have been prepared. Governance and regulatory
mechanisms are equally vague. The technical assistance planned under the proposed Project will, inter
alia, help the RS MOH resolve these issues.



- 14 -
C. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
35.      The Government's sector strategy is being developed in collaboration with and supported by
the WHO and IDA. A Recovery Program for the Health Sector of BH, estimated at US$540 million
over 3 to 4 years, was submitted in December 1995 for consideration to the international donor
community. This program, which is part of the US$5.1 billion Government reconstruction program,
encompasses all priority areas that require immediate attention and support, in order to prevent further
deterioration in the health status of the BH population and progressively rehabilitate the health services
delivery system. The Recovery Program also supports the efforts needed to initiate structural reforms,
thus promoting the sector's sustainability in the recovering Bosnian economy.
36.     IDA and the WHO are supporting in the short-term a series of operations which address cost-
effectively the most relevant and pressing health issues with which BH is confronted, and which are
consistent with a streamlined system in the medium term. The overall objective is to minimize lost
productivity and to alleviate suffering by reducing the burden of disease on the most at-risk segments of
the population, namely the direct victims of the war, and the women and children of BH. Improvements
in the areas presented in Table 3b below, however, will extend much beyond these target groups. The
entire population of BH will benefit from the cost-effective health services the proposed operations are
intended to support, as they constitute the initial vehicles to carry out the fundamental changes required
by the BH health care system. Table 3b shows the main elements of the health care system envisaged for
the medium-term, with primary care provision at the sub-hospital level, the most essential hospital
services in secondary-level facilities, and the most technically sophisticated services in the tertiary
hospitals or clinical centers. Each of these is necessary, and none is sufficient by itself. The three levels
of care will be linked through efficient referral practices.
37.     Three operations supported by IDA are included in the early stages of assistance to the health
sector of the Federation. As the first step in addressing the extensive needs, a new and more cost-
effective approach to physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services was developed by the Federation
MOH, with assistance from IDA, WHO and others. The Project, with a total cost of US$30.0 million,
was approved by the Board of Directors of IDA on May 16, 1996, and is being financed as the first
reconstruction initiative in the health sector: the War Victims Rehabilitation Project.
38.     The second operation is the proposed Essential Hospital Services Project, which will cover
both entities and focus on the most urgent needs in the hospital sub-sector as well as support for the
reform of the health finance system. The rationale for selecting this priority operation on Essential
Hospital Services rests on several considerations, including: (a) the need to address quickly the most
pressing hospital needs within a rational framework, thereby reducing the risk that uncoordinated and
expensive investments in the health sector will jeopardize sustainability; (b) the demonstrated
commitment of the Ministry of Health of each entity to the proposed operation; and (c) the uncertainty
that still prevails about the future organization of primary health care while the strategic options for a
third operation -- the Basic Health Services Program -- are being defined through a process led by the
MOH of each entity, with the support of the WHO and the Bank. It is envisaged that an IDA-supported
operation focusing on Basic Health Services will be presented to the Board of Directors for consideration
during the second half of CY97.



- 15 -
Table 3b: Priority Health Services And Levels Of Service Delivery
Level (s) of                                      Priority Services
Health Care
System
Rehabilitation   Accident and      Reproductive  Child Health   Public Health
of War Victims   Emergency         Health
Tertiary          Orthopedic and   Specialized       Specialized    Neonatal      Health
Hospitals        reconstructive    diagnostic and    obstetrics     intensive     promotion
(Regional         surgery          treatment         and            care
Clinical Centers)  (referrals from  services         gynecology.   (referrals
cantons)         (referrals from   (referrals    from
cantons)         from           cantons)
Short-term post-                   cantons)
operative
physical
rehabilitation
Secondary         Orthopedic and   Essential         Obstetrics &   Neonatal      Health
Facilities        reconstructive    diagnostic and   gynecology:   care           promotion
Cantonal/        surgery           treatment         (referrals     Pediatric in-
General                            services          from sub-      patient and
Hospitals         Short-term post-                   hospital       out-patient
operative                          level).        services
physical                                          (referrals
rehabilitation                     Normal         from sub-
deliveries    hospital
Acute care                                       level)
psychiatry
Primary Care      Community-       First aid         Prenatal care  Pediatric     Immunization.
(Sub-Hospital     based            General practice   Family        out-patient
Level Facilities)   rehabilitation  Communication    Planning       services      Health
- Polyclinics     - physical       Health                                         promotion
- Ambulanta       - mental         promotion



- 16 -
D. SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT
39.     The Essential Hospital Services Project is a single operation with two parts, one for each of the
two entities -- the Federation and RS. The Project was derived from modules of the Essential Hospital
Services Program of each entity. Sections D and E focus, respectively, on the details of project
components for each of the two entities. The institutional arrangements and implementation plans are
covered in Section F, followed by justification, benefits and risks in Section G. Table 4 below shows a
summary of the Project costs by component and by entity.
Table 4.  Summary of Project Costs By Component And Entity.
(US$ '000)
Component/Entity           Federation     RS        Total
1. Rehabilitation of hospitals/  10,033.8  656.4  10,690.2
Institute of Public Health
2. Medical equipment           7,365.1    6,209.9  13,575.0
3. Clinical skills and training  977.2     867.2   1,844.5
4. Health financing reforms    2,925.6   2,966.2   5,891.8
5. Project management            771.0     771.0   1,541.9
TOTAL                         22,072.7   11,470.8  33,543.5
40.     In the Federation, the Project will include eight cantonal hospitals, as well as the secondary-
level facilities in the three Clinical Centers. The cantonal hospitals are located in Bihac, Gorazde, Jajce,
Livno, Orasje, Travnik, Zenica and Sarajevo (the State Hospital). The clinical centers are in Mostar,
Sarajevo and Tuzla. The proposed Project was conceived and packaged within the framework of the
broader Program, which was prepared in April, 1996 by a Working Group established by the Federation
Ministry of Health and appraised by an IDA mission in May, 1996. The proposed Project is a sub-set of
this Program, focusing on (i) investments to restore services at the secondary (cantonal) hospital level,
and (ii) priority health finance reforms.
41.     In RS, the Project will include eight general hospitals, secondary-level functions in the Banja
Luka Clinical Center, as well as the Institute of Public Health in Banja Luka. The eight general hospitals
are in Prijedor, Gradiska, Doboj, Bijelina, Trebinje, Brcko, Zvomik, and Pale/Kasindol/ Sokolac. The
Project will not include the construction of any new facility. As in the Federation, the Project in the RS
is a module derived from the broader Program being prepared by a Working Group of the RS MOH with
the assistance of IDA and the WHO. The leadership of the Republika Srpska Ministry expressed its
agreement with the content of this module during a series of discussions with a Bank mission in July
1996.



- 17 -
E. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
THE PROJECT IN THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Project Objectives and Components
42.      The overall objective of the proposed Essential Hospital Services Project is to support the
development of a modem, cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector as a part of the
overall Essential Hospital Services Program. More specifically, the Project will: a) strengthen essential
hospital services at the cantonal level, focusing on the most needy segments of the population; and b)
establish and support the initial steps in health financing reforms. To accomplish these objectives, the
Federation part of the Project, estimated at a total cost of US$22.1 million, will support the development
and implementation of the following components:
a) Physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of essential hospital facilities (estimated cost
US$10.1 million). The Project will support the needed civil works to restore to adequate
operational conditions a network of eight cantonal hospitals and secondary-level facilities
in three clinical centers throughout the Federation. Only facilities that have remained
active throughout the war will be supported by the Project. Repairs and reconstruction will
focus on the priority structural, electrical, mechanical and heating systems -- collectively
described as "general services" -- for: (i) laundry, kitchen and sterilization; (ii) accident
and emergency services; (iii) diagnostic services; (iv) operating theaters for general
surgery, obstetrics and gynecology; (v) internal medicine; and (vi) neonatal intensive care
units.
b) Medical equipment and supplies (estimated cost US$7.4 million). The Project will provide
the selected hospitals with their most urgent needs in diagnostic and therapeutic equipment
for secondary-level care, as well as secure, for the duration of the Project, an adequate
supply of essential medical supplies. The Project will provide safe and cost-effective
equipment for radiology, hematology, and clinical chemistry. Equipment, instruments and
consumables will be provided for anesthesia, surgery, diagnostic and therapeutic obstetrics
and gynecology, internal medicine and neonatal intensive care units.
c) Upgrading of clinical skills and practices (estimated cost US$1.0 million). The Project
will provide technical assistance, training and equipment in support of: (i) the adaptation,
production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols for essential clinical
interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (ii) in-service training for physicians,
nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory technologists.
d) Health finance reform (estimated cost US$2.9 million). The restoration of an adequate and
stable national financing system for the entire health sector in general, and the hospitals in
particular, constitutes a major challenge for economic recovery. This component will
support technical assistance, training, office equipment, limited civil works and
operational expenditures for: (i) the development of the new health financing system; (ii)
support to the institutions in charge of implementing the new system; and (iii) the



- 18 -
development and implementation of an initial simplified phase of automated management
information systems. Emphasis will be on the establishment of a credible and effective
process, delivering interim products to facilitate the attainment of specified objectives
consistent with the Letter of Development Policy in the Transition Assistance Credit
(approved by the Board of Directors in September 1996).
e) Project implementation support (estimated base cost US$0.7 million). Given the very tight
fiscal position of BH during the initial period of recovery from the war, support will be
provided to cover most required foreign and local costs of implementing the Project
through support to a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Project will support all
needed investments (limited civil works, office equipment, technical assistance and
training) as well as incremental recurrent expenditures, which will be financed on a
declining basis for three years of operation.



- 19 -
Detailed Project Description
Physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of Essential Hospital Facilities component
43.    The Project will support repair and reconstruction activities to restore fully functional service
delivery units. These activities have been identified and prioritized using explicit criteria of need,
feasibility and affordability (see paragraph 10 and Appendix 1). Repairs and reconstruction will focus on
the priority structural, electrical, mechanical and heating systems for: (a) laundry, kitchen and
sterilization; (b) accident and emergency services; (c) diagnostic services; (d) operating theaters for
general surgery, obstetrics and gynecology; (e) internal medicine; and (f) neonatal intensive care units.
Specific lists of planned investments in each of the 1 I hospitals from which the project-supported
modules were selected are specified in Table I a and Appendix 1. Among the needs identified, the
proposed Project will cover the rehabilitation of damaged structures (wards/clinics/operating theaters),
repairs/renovations of general service buildings, and procurement/repairs of general service equipment in
eight cantonal hospitals.
Medical equipment and supplies component
44.        The Project will provide eight cantonal hospitals and three clinical centers with their most
urgent needs in diagnostic and therapeutic equipment for secondary-level care. The planned
investments, which will cover the priority first year requirements in eight cantonal hospitals and three
clinical centers (Appendix 2), include replacement of obsolete and/or irreparably damaged equipment,
within the projected capacity of the health system to sustain the recurrent costs of running the stock of
equipment. Given the serious financial constraints on the health system in the Federation, the Project
will also provide necessary supplies and consumables to support effective utilization of the equipment.
45.        Categories of equipment and supplies: The Project will provide safe and cost-effective
equipment for radiology, hematology, and clinical chemistry. Equipment, instruments and consumables
will be provided for anesthesia, surgery, diagnostic and therapeutic obstetrics and gynecology, internal
medicine and neonatal intensive care units. Specific lists of planned investments in each of the 11
hospitals are shown in Appendix 2.
Upgrading of clinical skills and practices component
46.        In order to achieve sustained improvements in the quality of health services provided in the
hospitals, diagnostic and therapeutic practices must be systematically upgraded. It is recognized that
structural improvements (civil works, equipment and supplies) are necessary but not sufficient to achieve
improved quality of care. Furthermore, poor quality of care results in inappropriate diagnoses and
avoidable complications, with associated costs of remedying conditions that could have been avoided
had the initial care been of good quality. For these clinical and economic reasons, the Project will
support the following: (a) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic
protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (b) in-service training for
physicians, nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory technologists.



- 20 -
47.        The activities to be supported by the Project will be organized around three Continuous
Medical Education Centers (CMEs), to be established in the medical library of each of the Clinical
Centers in the Federation. Each CME will serve a network of one Clinical Center and three to four
cantonal hospitals, starting with basic skills and progressively covering more specialized fields of
medicine.
48.        Equipment and Supplies. The Project will provide furniture, audio-visual equipment, books
and journals for the three Clinical Centers and eight cantonal hospitals. Audio-visual equipment will
include slide projectors, overhead projectors, computer workstations and Local Area Network (LAN)
with CD-ROMs, desktop publishing software and equipment for multi-media presentation. Each CME
will be provided with a core set of relevant medical journals. Basic textbooks and audio-visual materials
will be supplied to each cantonal hospital.
49.        Personnel and Training. The Project will support the development and implementation of
in-service local training for doctors, nurses, midwives and diagnostic and laboratory technicians.
Specifically, the Project will support: (a) the establishment and functioning of a Clinical Skills
Development Group, which will be developed under the umbrella of the Human Resources Development
Working Group of the Federation MOH; (b) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic
and therapeutic protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (c) in-
service training within each hospital, focusing on the development of skills required for the diagnoses
and treatments of the most common clinical conditions. The general approach will be to cover all
practising professionals -- doctors, nurses, technicians -- throughout the Project.
Health Finance Reform Component
50.        The future health financing system faces several challenges compared to the pre-war
situation. First, per capita health expenditure will be well below half of its pre-war level for at least the
next four years, while the expectations of health care professionals and the population will quickly
resume their pre-war levels. Second, the administration of health insurance will become much more
difficult as the administratively easier tax base of workers employed in state enterprises becomes much
smaller, and substantial decentralisation of both revenue-raising and contracting with health institutions
at the cantonal level will proceed, in parallel to the introduction of the cantonal supplementary
compulsory second-tier and third-tier voluntary health insurance. Finally, substantial damages to many
health insurance buildings and information systems and the communication infrastructure will constrain
the future operations of the FHIA.
51.        To assist in these drastic adaptations, the Project will support: (a) limited civil works to
establish new offices and the use of appropriate information technology for both administrative and
strategic purposes; (b) technical assistance in areas such as institutional arrangements for health
insurance, design of the basic package and human resource planning; (c) in-service training to support
the implementation of the health insurance system; and (d) the dissemination of information to
professionals in the Federation about comparable systems, both in other parts of the formner Yugoslavia
and beyond. Funds will be made available for staff from the Federal and cantonal levels to get the



- 21 -
needed documentation and to participate in study visits to countries with relevant experience.
52.        Equipment and supplies. The Project will provide office technology for the existing
Federation Health Insurance Agency and the cantonal health fund offices. Equipment will be procured
along with equipment from other components of the Project.
53.        Technical Assistance. The broad objective of the technical assistance (TA) to be provided
under the Project will be to support, in both entities, the development of a credible and effective process,
delivering specific interim products, in pursuit of: (a) an overall design for a coherent health financing
system that will achieve universal access, cost-containment, quality, sustainability, effectiveness and
efficiency objectives, and (b) the portability of access to health care between the entities, within the
provisions of the constitution of BH. Technical assistance will help the Ministry of Health and
appropriate institutions in each entity to: (a) identify specific options, and the implications of those
options, for introducing a sustainable, efficient, effective and equitable health finance regime; (b)
conduct defined studies of limited scope in support of the decision making process in each entity; and (c)
develop the capacity of nationals of BH to manage the health sector reform process successfully.
54.        The Government of the United Kingdom, which has supported the preparation and appraisal
of this component, has expressed strong interest in at least partial financing of this Project component in
both the Federation and RS through the Know How Fund (KHF) of the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office. IDA and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office are in the process of firming up this possibility.
Project Implementation Support Component
55.        Given the tight fiscal position of BH during the initial period of recovery from the war,
support will be sought to cover all required foreign and local incremental costs of project management.
These will include all needed investments (office equipment, technical assistance and training), as well
as recurrent expenditures for three years of operation. Since the required management capacity is
currently not available in the Federation MOH, an effective Project Implementation Unit will be created
within the MOH for the Essential Hospital Services Project. Personnel and equipment requirements for
this unit will be addition to those established for the War Victims Rehabilitation Project.
56.        The PIU will consist of a Project Director to manage and co-ordinate the implementation of
the Project; a Procurement Specialist to supervise tendering, purchasing and delivery of goods; an
Accountant to maintain project financial records; an Architect/Construction Engineer to coordinate and
supervise civil works activities; and the needed administrative support staff (secretaries and translators).
This core staff will constitute the PIU "Technical Team", which will establish linkages between the
Federation MOH and Canton Administrations to ensure the timely implementation of the Project. This
unit will be fully integrated with -- and strengthen -- the emerging administrative structure and
management capacity of the Federation MOH and will work closely with the existing PIU for War
Victims Rehabilitation Project, and will share technical expertise as much as possible. A team of
experts, comprised of members of the MOH working groups who designed the Project. will constitute the
"Essential Hospital Services Steering Committee". Further details regarding project implemenitation are
specified in Appendix 5.



- 22 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
57.        Project Cost. The estimated total cost of Federation part of the Project is US$22.1 million
equivalent, including physical contingencies of three percent on goods, technical assistance, training and
recurrent costs, and seven percent on civil works. Price contingencies of 2.3% per year have been
included. Investment costs (US$20.2 million) covering civil works, medical equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance and training, constitute 91% of the total Project costs. Recurrent costs (US$1.9
million), including medical supplies, operation and maintenance of vehicles, as well as other operating
costs, constitute 9% of the total Project cost for the Federation. Detailed cost estimates are shown in
Appendix 3. They are net of taxes.
58.        Financing Plan. Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the recipient of the funds to be provided
by various donors. The government of Italy has committed US$5.2 million (eight billion Italian Lire),
and the governments of Greece, Iceland, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom have expressed interest
in financing parts of the Project. These expressions of interest are being followed up and additional
possibilities are being sought. In July 1996, a Bank mission assisted the Federation Ministry of Health to
prepare a draft work plan for its donor co-ordination office, with the objective of securing funds from
donors for this Project as well as the broader Program. If the needed co-financing were not available for
any reason, the Project scope will be reduced to fit within the available funds, with priority given to those
components to be financed through IDA (ITF) (see Table 5 below). Such a reduction will not in any
case reduce the viability of the Project, since the design was based on functional sub-units within the
Project, and the IDA(ITF)-financed components were based on the indispensable core priorities for
restoring essential hospital services.
Table 5. Federation Component - Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Hospital     Medical      Clinical      Health       Project       Total by
Rehab.       Equipment   Skills &       Finance      Management  Financier *
Training
Govt             0.0           0.3          0.0           0.2          0.1           0.6
IDA (ITF)        2.3           4.3          0.0           2.7          0.7          10.0
Donors to be     7.7           2.8          1.0           0.0          0.0          11.5
identified               I             I_I
Total by         10.0          7.4          1.0           2.9          0.8          22.1
component*                             I            I             I
* Numbers may not add up to total due to rounding.
59.    Environmental Aspects. Because this Project is not expected to have any adverse
environmental impact, it has not been placed in an environmental screening category. The Project will
follow accepted Bank procedures. All hospital services under the Program will incorporate appropriate
and safe disposal of wastes.



- 23 -
THE PROJECT IN THE REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Project Objectives and Components
60.     The overall objective of the proposed Project in the RS is to support the strategies of the MOH
for the medium-term: to develop a modern, cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector.
More specifically, this part of the Project will: a) strengthen essential hospital services focusing on the
most needy segments of the population; and b) establish and support the initial steps in health financing
reforms. To accomplish these objectives, this part of the Project, estimated at a total cost of US$11.5
million, will support the development and implementation of the following components:
a) Physical repairs at the Banja Luka Institute of Public Health (estimated cost US$0.7
million). The Project will support limited civil works to restore the diagnostic facilities of
the Institute to a fully functional status in support of the network of hospitals in the RS.
b) Medical equipment and supplies (estimated cost US$6.2 million). The Project will provide
the priority hospital facilities and the Institute of Public Health with their most urgent
needs in the repair of existing equipment, provision of supplies and consumables, as well
as maintenance of equipment for the duration of the Project.
c) Upgrading of clinical skills and practices (estimated cost US$0.9 million). The Project
will provide technical assistance, training and equipment in support of: (i) the adaptation,
production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols for essential clinical
interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (ii) in-service training for physicians,
nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory technicians.
d) Health finance reform (estimated cost US$3.0 million). The restoration of an adequate and
stable financing system for the health sector in general, and the hospital sub-sector in
particular, constitutes a major challenge for economic recovery. The Project will support
technical assistance, training, office equipment, and operational expenditures for: (i) the
development of the new health finance system as proposed by the RS; (ii) support to the
institutions in charge of implementing the new system; and (iii) the development and
implementation of an automated management information system at the Public Fund for
Health and the institutions supported by the Project.
e) Project implementation support (estimated base cost US$0.7 million). Given the very tight
fiscal position of BH during the initial period of recovery from the war, support will be
provided to cover all required foreign and local costs of implementing the Project through
support to a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Project will support all needed
investments (limited civil works, office equipment, technical assistance and training) as
well as incremental recurrent expenditures for two years of operation. Necessary salary
costs and other related operational expenditures will be covered under the Project to
facilitate effectiveness of the PIU.



- 24 -
Detailed Project Description
Physical repairs at the Banja Luka Institute of Public Health
61.     The Project will support limited civil works required by the Institute of Public Health in Banja
Luka. Repairs and reconstruction will focus on the priority structural, electrical, mechanical and heating
systems, including repairs of the roof and the basement. The completion of these activities will improve
the capacity of the Institute to accommodate the equipment used for diagnostic tests, including serology,
microbiology, culture and sensitivity tests.
Medical equipment and supplies component
62.     The Project will provide the eight priority hospitals, the Banja Luka Clinical Center and the
Institute of Public Health in Banja Luka with their most urgent needs in the repair of existing equipment,
supplies and consumables, as well as maintenance for the duration of the Project.
63.      Categories of equipment and supplies: The Project will provide support for: (i) urgently
needed repairs for an estimated 60% of the existing stock of equipment which is still viable; (ii) supplies
and consumables for the existing equipment for one year; and (iii) maintenance of the existing equipment
for three years. The Project will include equipment for radiology, hematology, microbiology, clinical
chemistry, anesthesia, surgery, diagnostic and therapeutic obstetrics and gynecology, internal medicine
and neonatal intensive care units. Specific lists of planned investments in each of the hospitals and the
Institute of Public Health are shown in Appendices 7 and 8.
Upgrading of clinical skills and practices component
64.     In order to achieve sustained improvements in the quality of health services provided in the
hospitals, diagnostic and therapeutic practices must be systematically upgraded. It is recognized that
structural improvements (civil works, equipment and supplies) are necessary but not sufficient to achieve
improved quality of care. Furthermore, poor quality of care results in inappropriate diagnoses and
avoidable complications, with associated costs of remedying conditions that could have been avoided
had the initial care been of good quality. For these clinical and economic reasons, the Project will
support the following: (i) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic
protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (ii) in-service training for
physicians, nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory technologists.
65.     The activities to be supported by the Project will be organized around a Continuous Medical
Education Center (CME), to be established in the medical library of the Clinical Center in Banja Luka. It
will start with basic skills and progressively cover more specialized fields of medicine.
66.     Civil Works. Equipment and Supplies. The Project will provide civil works for rehabilitation
and/or remodelling of seminar rooms, furniture, audio-visual equipment, books, and journals for the
hospitals and the Institute of Public Health. Audio-visual equipment will include slide projectors,
overhead projectors, computer workstations and Local Area Network (LAN) with CD-ROMs, desktop
publishing software and equipment for multi-media presentation. The CME will be provided with a core



- 25 -
set of relevant medical journals. Basic textbooks and audio-visual materials will be supplied to each
hospital.
67.    Personnel and Training. The Project will support the development and implementation of in-
service local training for doctors, nurses, midwives and diagnostic and laboratory technicians.
Specifically, the Project will support: (a) the establishment and functioning of a Clinical Skills
Development Group; (b) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic
protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost-effectiveness; and (c) in-service training
within each hospital, focusing on the development of skills required for the diagnoses and treatment of
the most common clinical conditions. The approach will be to cover all practicing professionals --
doctors, nurses, technicians -- throughout the Project.
Health financing reform component
68.      The Health Finance Reform Component in the RS will be undertaken in co-ordination with
that of the Federation as described in the Detailed Project Description for the Federation and in the
Terms of Reference, attached as an appendix. Cost tables of specific project inputs are shown separately
for each entity in the appendices.
Project Implementation Support Component
69.      Given the tight fiscal position of BH during initial period of recovery from the war, support
will be sought to cover all required foreign and local costs of Project management. This will include all
needed investments (office equipment, technical assistance and training), as well as incremental
recurrent expenditures for three years of operation. Since the required management capacity is currently
not available in the RS MOH, an effective Project Implementation Unit will be created within the MOH.
70.     The PIU will consist of a Project Director to manage and co-ordinate the implementation of the
Project; a Procurement Specialist to supervise tendering, purchasing and delivery of goods; an
Accountant to maintain Project financial records; an Architect/Construction Engineer to co-ordinate and
supervise civil works activities; and the needed administrative support staff, secretaries and translators.
This core staff will constitute the PIU "Technical Team", which will establish linkages between the RS
MOH and the municipalities to ensure the timely implementation of the Project. This approach will be
fully integrated with -- and strengthen -- the emerging administrative structure and management capacity
of the MOH. A team of experts, comprised of members of working groups who designed the Project,
will constitute the "Essential Hospital Services Steering Committee". The PIU will liaise with the Donor
Coordination Office to be established by the MOH, in order to provide accurate information about the
status of overall Project financing and needs to the donor community (see Financing Plan below).
71.     The estimated total cost of the RS part of the Project is US$11.5 million equivalent, including
physical contingencies of three percent on goods, technical assistance, training and recurrent costs, and
seven percent on civil works. Price contingencies of 2.3 percent have been included. Investment costs
(US$8.4 million) covering civil works, medical equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and training
constitute 76 percent of the total project costs. Recurrent costs (US$3.0 million) including medical



- 26 -
supplies, operation and maintenance of vehicles, as well as other operating costs, constitute 24 percent of
the total project cost. Detailed cost estimates are shown in Appendix 3 (RS). They are net of taxes.
Project Financing Plan
72.     Financing Plan. Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the recipient of the funds to be provided by
various donors. The government of Italy has committed US$5.2 million (eight billion Italian Lire), and
the governments of Greece, Iceland, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom have expressed interest in
financing parts of the Project. These expressions of interest are being followed up and additional
possibilities are being sought. In this regard, the RS MOH will take the lead to secure the funds required
for the Project. In July 1996, a Bank mission assisted the RS MOH to prepare the work plan of a donor
coordination office that is intended to secure funds for the Project and for the broader Program. If the
needed co-financing were not available for any reason, the Project scope will be reduced to fit within the
available funds, with priority given to those components to be financed through IDA (see Table 6:
Financing Plan below). Such a reduction will not in any case reduce the viability of the Project, since the
design was based on functional sub-units within the Project, since the design was based on functional
sub-units within the Project, and the IDA(ITF)-financed components were based on the indispensable
core priorities for restoring essential hospital services.
Table 6. RS Component --Financing Plan(US$ million)
Rehab. of    Medical       Clinical Skills  Health     Project      Total by
Institute of    Equipment    & Training    Finance     Management  Financier *
Public Health
Govt              0.0          0.5           0.0           0.0           0.1           0.6
IDA (ITF)         0.0          3.8           0.0           0.5           0.7           5.0
Donors to be      0.6           1.8          0.9           2.5           0.0           5.9
identified
Total by          0.6          6.2           0.9           3.0           0.8          11.5
component*
* Numbers may not add up to total due to rounding.



- 2 7 -
F. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
73.   The World Bank is supporting the MOH of each entity to undertake the health reform and
reconstruction program. The Bank has provided assistance to the working groups of the MOHs in
preparing a sound government program, based on explicit priorities and within projected capacity for
sustainability in BH. IDA(ITF) and other donors will finance modules of this Program as "projects",
and/or combine to finance the entire Program. Subsequent references to "projects" are to be interpreted
in this context. This section describes in detail the implementation arrangements for the Essential
Hospital Services Project, which will provide support to the reform of hospital services in BH. This
Project will be implemented by the Federation MOH and the RS MOH in close coordination and
collaboration with the related health authorities at the local level: cantons, municipalities, universities,
NGOs and other volunteer and donor agencies.
74.   To undertake its Health Reform and Reconstruction Program, the MOH has established an
Executive Office, under the direct authority of the Minister and Deputy Minister, with two main
responsibilities: (i) design and implementation of the health sector recovery program; and (ii)
coordination of donor activities. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been created to coordinate
and manage the War Victims Rehabilitation (WVR) Project under the authority of the MOH Executive
Office. It is envisaged that a PIU, with its own Director appointed by the MOH will be created to
coordinate and manage the Essential Hospital Services (EHS) Project. For some of the technical
functions (e.g., procurement), the EHS-PIU will use the existing resources of the WVR-PIU as much as
possible to create economies of scale. The two PIU Directors will work under the overall supervision
and guidance of the Executive Office of the Federation PIU and the RS MOH. Each PIU will represent
another building block in developing an operationally effective MOH in each entity, as is true of the
WVR Project's PIU in the Federation.
75.   Each PIU will have the responsibility for: (i) day-to-day management, coordination and
monitoring of the Project's activities; (ii) coordination of all other activities in the field of health reforms
and restructuring and strengthening of hospital services being supported by other donor agencies in
connection with this Project and (iii) coordination with and integration of activities (as required) under
the WVR Project.
76.   Similar to the implementation arrangements for the WVR Project, a core Technical Team will be
recruited and will be responsible for all project implementation activities: civil works, procurement,
accounting, etc. In addition, three policy development advisory teams -- Essential Hospital Services
Steering Committee, Clinical Skills Development Group, and Health Financing Steering Committee --
will be established from the working groups which prepared the project proposals. These groups will be
employed on a part-time basis (i.e., approximately 20 days/year) and will provide professional guidance
and technical expertise to each PIU in the further development and implementation of project activities.



- 28 -
Implementation Arrangements
77.    Since the Project activities will take place in selected hospitals, the Federation Health Insurance
Agency (FHIA) offices in the cantons, the RS Public Health Fund and its branch offices, each PIU/MOH
and cantonal administrations need to agree on operational and administrative procedures prior to
implementation. 6 As ownership, participation and commitment of the local health authorities are critical
for the successful implementation of the project, much attention will be given to this process. The
objective will be to reach a "contractual agreement" between local authorities and the MOHs, under
which the local authorities commit to undertake the activities agreed upon and the MOHs (through the
PIUs) will provide the needed resources to implement the said activities. Such a "contractual agreement"
does not in any way function as an on-lending instrument: all resources will remain under the control of
the PIUs which will make them available to local authorities according to the implementation schedule.
The implementation arrangements for major activity areas are given below.
Implementation of the Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Hospital Facilities Component.
78.    Responsibility for the implementation of this component will rest with each MOH/PIU in
coordination with the hospital and local health authorities. The PIUs will be responsible for ensuring the
provision and coordination of necessary inputs.
79.    The activities under this component cover mainly physical rehabilitation of existing hospital
facilities. Given the limited implementation capacity of the MOHs, technical assistance will be needed
to support the PIUs in: (i) assessing the needs for rehabilitation of hospitals, (ii) preparing civil works
design and tender documents; (iii) carrying out of tendering and selection procedures; and (iv)
supervising civil works. Technical assistance (TA) support will be provided through the Project for this
purpose. The TA agency to undertake this assignment should have extensive prior experience in the
required functions, as well as the technical and logistics capacity to supervise effectively the civil works
activities in all the cantons.
80.    The PIUs will be responsible for approving all documentation prepared by this TA agency and
for authorizing payments based on the reports and invoices received regularly from the contractors
through this agency. A procedure for effective communication needs to be established between the PIUs
and the TA agency.
Implementation of the Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
81.   Responsibility for the implementation of this component will rest with each PIU in coordination
with the hospital and local health authorities. The PIUs will be responsible for ensuring the provision
and coordination of necessary inputs. Since the type and quantity of the equipment and supplies to be
procured for each hospital will be determined by the level of service to be provided by each hospital, the
activities of this component should be consistent with the Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
6      Legislation for establishment of an autonomous Federation Health Insurance Agency (and Fund) is
expected to be approved by Parliament within the next few months.



- 29 -
Component of the Project. Specifically, investments must result in functional facilities that provide good
quality services.
82.    The procurement of medical equipment and supplies will be handled by a specialized
Procurement Agent (PA) -- with the capacity to prepare the required technical specifications and to
procure the equipment and supplies -- to be contracted following a competitive process. The PA will be
responsible for: (i) the preparation of technical specifications and tendering documents; (ii) carrying out
tendering procedures and development of evaluation and selection criteria; and (iii) evaluation of
proposals on behalf of and in coordination with the PlUs/MOHs. The PA will also be responsible for
inspecting the delivery and installation of the equipment, certifying payments in accordance with
contract conditions and supervising the in-service training programs to be provided by the suppliers
authorized by the PIUs.
Implementation of the Clinical Skills and Practices Component
83.   In the Federation, this component will be implemented by the 3 clinical centers and 8 cantonal
hospitals with technical assistance provided for the development and implementation of training courses.
In RS, this component will be implemented by the Banja Luka clinical center and Project-supported
hospitals.
84.    A Clinical Skills Development Group comprised of 5 senior medical and nursing professionals
will be established by the MOHs. This group will be responsible for (i) adapting and supervision the
production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols for essential clinical interventions
of known cost-effectiveness; and (ii) the provision of in-service training for designated hospital staff.
85.    The Clinical Skills Development Group will be responsible for the implementation of in-services
training programs. For this purpose, workshops will be organized for staff groups, comprising doctors,
nurses, midwives and diagnostic and laboratory technologists from each hospital periodically during
project implementation.
86.    Allocation of the appropriate space for training in each project hospital should be secured during
the project design phase of the first component. The Project will provide furniture, office and audio-
visual equipment, and library resources.
Implementation of the Health Finance Reform Component:
87.    The Health Finance Reform component will be implemented by each MOH/PIU in coordination
with: (a) the Federation Health Insurance Agency (FHIA) and the cantonal Health Insurance Funds in the
Federation --these are expected to be established within the next few months - and (b) in coordination
with the Public Health Fund and its branch offices in RS. Implementation arrangements and
responsibilities for the two major activity areas under this component are described below.



- 30 -
Development of a New Health Financing System
88.   The MOHs will be responsible for the development of a policy framework for the new health
financing system and an automation strategy in support of the health insurance offices throughout the
country. The cantons will further develop the procedures to be implemented in their territory within this
policy framework. The PIUs will be responsible for ensuring the provision and coordination of
identified Project inputs for the development and implementation of the new system. The Project will
provide: (i) technical assistance, (ii) overseas and local training, and (iii) provision of IT equipment and
supplies.
89.    The Working Group established for the preparation of the Project proposal will be sustained
(with amended membership as appropriate) as the Health Financing Steering Committee and supported
by the Project funds. This committee will work closely with and supervise the system development and
implementation activities to be carried out under the Project.
90.   The major technical assistance required for the institutional framework for health insurance,
basic health package, records and economic analysis in the MOHs will be provided under one package of
TA comprised of international and local inputs. A Health Finance Adviser will be provided under the
TA package, to assist the MOHs during the process of system development and early implementation.
91.    During implementation, MOHs and health insurance staff will receive in-service training to
develop skills on administrative aspects of the new system. Later in project implementation, overseas
study tours will be provided to give staff the opportunity to learn from similar health insurance systems
in Europe.
Simplified Automated Information System
92.    The Project will support initial aspects of the development of a simplified management
information system to link financial and service delivery information at the Federation and cantonal
levels . The Federation will have certain statutory requirements for data, and the project will support the
development of a unified information system for all health insurance offices at the Federation and
cantonal levels. The Federation may need to contract out collection and processing of data. In RS,
emphasis will be on enhancing efficiency and use of information for decision making, and on improved
communications among the Public Health Fund and its branch offices.
93.    The Project will also finance both international and local TA to support the information system
establishment. Information system specialists will be hired to coordinate all activities associated with
development of the information system. Training will also be provided for health insurance staff in both
entities to upgrade their technical skills in the implementation of the health insurance systems.
94.    The IT equipment, mainly computer terminals, modems, printers, and facsimile for FHIA and RS
Public Health Fund offices, will be procured through LIB in the first year of the Project. The preparation
of technical specifications, and the tendering process will be handled by the Procurement Agent to be
recruited as described above. Funds are allocated for this purpose under the Project.



- 31 -
Project Implementation Schedule
95.   The Project will be implemented over a three year period. To allow for swift implementation of
this emergency-type operation, procedures for project implementation will be kept simple to the extent
possible. To secure the timely implementation of the Project, implementation schedules have been
developed for each component (Appendix 5 for the Federation, Appendix 10 for RS).
96.   A joint Project Launch Workshop will be organized by the PlUs, with the support of the Bank's
Social Sector Operations Officer in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the authorities of the MOHs
and the PlUs, this workshop will involve all responsible staff at the national and cantonal levels and
responsible staff in the health facilities supported under the Project. The purpose of the workshop will be
to: (i) review the project concept and activities; (ii) confirm the role and responsibilities of each level of
authority and implementation; (iii) confirm the functional standards determined by the Professional
Team for the selected hospitals; and (iv) finalize and agree on the implementation schedule.
97. Within 30 days following the Project Launch Workshop, a Procurement Workshop and a
Disbursement Workshop involving all persons involved in procurement, including The. PIUs, the
Procurement Agent and the members of the Procurement Review Committee, will be organized by the
PIUs to review, explain and assign responsibilities for the procurement procedures set for the Project.
Procurement Arrangements
98.   The arrangements described below will be applied for procurement of goods, works, and services
under the Project. Table 7 shows the procurement arrangements. Procurement packages and schedule
are shown in the appendices.
99.   Civil works under the Project will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and
National Shopping (NS). Goods will be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB),
International Shopping (IS), National Shopping (NS) and Direct Contracting (DC).



- 32 -
TABLE 7. Summary Of Proposed Procurement Arrangements a
(US$ Million)
Category of Expenditure                          LIB                 NCB                 Other          Total
1. Civil Works                                                        6.4                4.8-'           11.2
(1.5)               (0.6)         (2.1)
2. Technical Assistance
a. Policy Development                                                                  0.33 0.3
(0.3)         (0.3)
b. Capacity Building                                                                   0.6c/          0.6
(0.5)         (0.5)
c. Project Implementation                                                              1.5cl          1.5
(1.4)         (1.4)
3. Training, Fellowships                                                                   1.7            1.7
and Study Tours                                                                      (0.7)          (0.7)
4. Equipment and Materials                        5.5                                       9 d/         13.4
(3.0)                                   (3.9)          (6.9)
5. Operations and
Maintenance                                                                           4.9            4.9
(3.1)         (3.1)
Total Financing Requirements                      5.5                 6.4                 21.7           33.5
(3.0)               (1.5)               (10.5)        (15.0)
NOTES: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
a/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
b/  Procurement of Small Works using Bank Guidelines.
c/  Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
d/  Prudent National Shopping/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregate Federation: US$280,000-RS: US$210,000) of less than US$200,000
per contract; international shopping (aggregate Federation: US$5,500,000-RS: US$1,470,000) of less than US$2.0 million per
contract; direct contracting (aggregate Federation: US$120,000-RS: US$300,000) for books, intellectual property, spare parts.
Procurement of Goods
100.    Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN, see Appendix) appeared in the October 1996
issue of the Development Business publication. The notice includes information about the nature of the
goods, works and services to be procured and invite interested and eligible suppliers, contractors and
consultants to send their expression of interest to the PIUs. The GPN will also be published in the local
press.
101.    Limited International Bidding (LIB). LIB will be used for procurement packages estimated to
cost between US$2.0 million and US$5.0 million each. Exceptions to the US$2.0 million threshold will



- 3 3 -
be in cases where there will be only a limited number of suppliers. Medical and office equipment (about
US$13.4 million total) will be packaged according to related specialized fields. It is likely that LIB will
be used for the two large medical equipment packages, one for the Federation and one for RS. For the
Federation, goods not to exceed aggregate of US$2.0 million will be procured. For the RS, goods not to
exceed an aggregate of US$3.5 million will be procured. As presented in Appendices 4 and 9, it is
expected that all the remainder of the packages will be under the US$2.0 million threshold, and therefore
will be procured through International or National Shopping (IS, NS) or Direct Contracting (DC) (see
below).
(a) List of LIB Bidders. The list of suppliers will be compiled based on the expressions of
interest received in response to the General Procurement Notice as well as other sources, such as the
Procurement Agent's own experience. The list will be as broad as possible. List of suppliers for LIB
packages will be subject to the Bank's prior approval.
(b) Bidding Documents for LIB. The Bank's Standard Bidding documents will be used for all
LIB packages.
102.  International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for equipment and materials or
standard specification commodities estimated to cost between US$200,000 and US$ 2.0 million per
contract, not to exceed an aggregate of US$5.5 million for the Federation, and US$1.47 million for RS.
IS will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible
countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.
103.  National Shopping (NS). NS will be used for contracts for goods available in Bosnia
Herzegovina up to an estimated cost US$ 200,000 per contract with at least three quotations. The
aggregates will be US$280,000 for the Federation and US$210,000 for RS.
104.  Direct Contracting (DC). DC will be used for proprietary items, for reasons of compatibility
and standardization, and in any other justified case. Any direct contracting during project
implementation will need prior Bank approval. Aggregate for Direct Contracting will be: US$120,000
for Federation and US$300,000 for RS.
Procurement of Works
105.  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) Given the dispersed nature of works and lack of interest
from foreign contractors, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures are proposed for contracts
between US$1 million and US$5 million per contract. However, interested foreign bidders will be
allowed to participate in NCB. A general pre-qualification of contractors will be carried out, with pre-
qualification criteria approved by the Bank. Bidding documents will be sent to contractors who will be
allowed four weeks to submit bids. It is anticipated that three contracts for the Federation, with
aggregate of US$6.4 million, will be handled using NCB procedures.
106.  Given the nature of the works, mainly rehabilitation of existing facilities, National Shopping
(NS) procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost up to US$ 1.0 million per contract. These
works will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations



- 34 -
obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include
a detailed description of works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Association and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has
the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. It is estimated that eight contracts for
the Federation with aggregate of US$6.4 million will be handled using these procedures. For RS, three
contracts, estimated at US$1.4 million, will be under these procedures.
Procurement of Services
107.  Services will be procured through competition and sole sourcing where and when appropriate.
Qualified firms will be invited to submit proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services
and management of fellowships and training in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).
To keep the evaluation process manageable, no more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited
following a short listing acceptable to the Bank. It is anticipated that the bulk of the technical assistance
will be procured in ten packages (six for the Federation and four for RS) at a cost of about US$3.7
million. These assignments will be filled through a competitive process, using short-listing. A small
amount of technical assistance will also be provided through sole sourcing of the services of the
respective MOH Steering Committees in the Federation and RS. In addition, some individual training
will be provided for PIU staff. (See Appendices 4 and 9 for details of procurement packages.)
108.  The respective PIUs to be established in the Federation-MOH and the RS-MOH will be
responsible for implementation of the procurement plan. In both PIUs, a procurement officer will be
appointed to handle procurement matters. These two individuals will receive initial procurement training
through participation in the procurement seminars to be organized by the Bank in late October 1996, both
in the Federation and in the Republika Srpska, and will have further periodic training by the Bank over
the course of the project. In addition, funding will be provided within the project for procurement
advisory support to facilitate procurement arrangements, and to provide guidance to the procurement
officers, as needed. The PIUs will be required to coordinate with the independent Procurement
Monitoring and Audit Unit which has been established under the Emergency Electric Power
Rehabilitation Project for all projects in Bosnia to ensure the integrity of the procurement process.
109.  Recurrent cost/Incremental operating expenditures will be procured as follows: PIU staffing
will be procured through procurement procedures for consultant services and in some cases on a sole-
source basis, after consultation with IDA. Office supplies, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, rental and
other services will be procured through National Shopping (NS) or Intemational Shopping (IS),
according to the availability of required items in Bosnia Herzegovina and the size of the procurement
packages, and will follow the provisions set for NS and IS in paras. 102 and 103. Gas and electricity will
be procured from local companies at prevailing rates.
Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents
110.  The Bank has prepared the invitation to quote and contract documents for International
Shopping, National Competitive Bidding and a national shopping document for civil works. These



- 35 -
documents will be used under the Project. Prior review will be required for all contracts procured
through Limited International Bidding (LIB) and Direct Contracting (DC). Also, the first three NCB
contracts for works will require prior review from IDA. For consultants' contracts, prior review will be
required for: (i) all consultants' terns of reference; (ii) contracts above US$100,000 for firms; (iii)
contracts above US$50,000 for individuals; and (iv) all sole source contracts. The Bank's standard form
of consultant contracts will be used. Post review of procurement actions on a sample basis will be
carried out during supervision missions.
Disbursement
111.   Disbursement categories and projected disbursements under the Credit are shown in Table 8
below. The Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of three years from Date of Effectiveness,
scheduled for November 29, 1996. The closing date will be June 30, 2000.
Table 8: Disbursement Categories
Category                              Amount of Credit                      % of Expenditures
(expressed in Dollar Equivalent)     to be financed
(UlSS Million)
1. Civil Works
Federation                          1.9                                   100% (net of taxes)
2. Goods
Federation                          4.3                                   100% of foreign expenditures;
RS                                  2.0                                   100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and 85%
of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
3. Consultant Services                                                      100%
and Training
Federation                          1.7
RS                                  0.9
4. Recurrent Expenditures                                                   100% through December 31, 1997;
Federation                          1.1                                   75% through December 31, 1998;
RS                                  1.6                                   and 50% thereafter.
5. Unallocated
Federation                          1.0
RS                                  0.5
TOTAL                                 15.0
112.   Special Accounts. To facilitate timely project implementation, payments for agreed project
activities are to be made from two Special Accounts in US dollars which are to be established and
maintained by the State Ministry of Finance at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocations of the Special Accounts will be limited to US$2.0 million for the Federation, and US$ 1.0
million for RS. Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis or more frequently
if the amount withdrawn is approximately one-third of the amount on deposit. The Bank will accept
applications for direct payment outside of the Special Accounts that exceeded 20% of the authorized
allocations. PIU Directors and their designees will have the authority to operate these accounts in line



- 36 -
with sound principles of accountability and responsibility for use under the project.
113.   Statements of Expenditures. Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for contracts for: goods less than US$2 million equivalent, works less than US$5 million
equivalent, except for the first three contracts awarded under Schedule 3, Section 1, Part B.3, consulting
firms less than US$100,000 equivalent, individual consultants less than US$50,000 equivalent, and all
training and incremental operating expenditures. The documentation for SOE expenditures will be
reviewed by the PIUs and made available for the required audit as well as for Bank supervision missions.
Full documentation will be required for all contracts above these limits.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
114.  Accounts. Separate and auditable accounts on the Project will be established by each PIU.
These accounts will include: (i) a record of withdrawals with copies of all disbursement requests and
underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions on the Special Account and copies of the
bank statements on this account.
115.  Audits. The project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors and under terms
of reference acceptable to IDA. Separate audit statements will be prepared for the Special Account and
for Statements of Expenditures. All audit reports will be made available to IDA, at the latest, six months
after the end of the fiscal year. Project accounts will be maintained for one year after they have been
audited.
116.  Reporting. Each PIU will prepare and fumish to IDA a quarterly progress report showing the
status of implementation, including procurement, of the Project as well as a financial report in a format
acceptable to IDA. The PIUs will collect data from the canton and branch administrations which will
compile short quarterly progress reports.
Supervision Plan
117.   Project implementation will incorporate an appropriate degree of flexibility in order to adapt
local implementation arrangements to the rapidly changing circumstances in the country.
Implementation progress will be formally evaluated at mid-term, i.e., approximately 18 months after
Project Effectiveness. In addition, during the first 6 to 12 months of implementation, IDA's management
team for the Project (EC 1/2HR staff in Washington and Budapest), jointly with the Social Sectors
Operations Officer of the Bank's Resident Mission in Sarajevo, will supervise on a continuous basis all
initial project implementation steps, and will assist closely on matters requiring advice and rapid
decision by IDA. In particular, procurement and disbursements will require intensive supervision, given
the flexibility built into implementation.



- 37 -
Agreements Reached
118.  In addition to the standard conditions concerning the execution and ratification of the
Development Credit Agreement, the following actions will be conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed Credit: (a) execution of a subsidiary agreement between the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, satisfactory to IDA; (b) establishment of a Federation
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with mandate, staffing and other resources satisfactory to IDA; (c)
preparation of the detailed list of medical equipment for each cantonal hospital and clinical center in the
Federation, satisfactory to IDA; and (d) satisfactory allocation of amounts for civil works among specific
cantonal hospitals and clinical centers to be rehabilitated in the Federation.
119.  The following action will be a condition of disbursement for that portion of the Credit which is
allocated to the Federation, namely, preparation of detailed technical specifications and procurement
packages of medical equipment to be procured under the Project in the Federation, using internationally
recognized procedures acceptable to IDA. The following actions will be conditions of disbursement for
that portion of the Credit which is allocated to the Republika Srpska: (a) execution of a subsidiary
agreement between the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska; (b) establishment of
an RS PIU with mandate and staffing acceptable to IDA; and (c) preparation of a detailed technical
specifications and procurement packages of medical equipment to be procured under the Project in the
Republika Srpska, using internationally recognized procedures acceptable to IDA. If these conditions are
not met by April 30, 1997, the portions of the Credit concerned could be reallocated or canceled.
120.  Other agreements reached are: (a) the Federation shall, by February 28, 1997, employ
procurement agents, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to assist the Federation in carrying out
the procurement of goods and works under the Project and (b) the Republika Srpska shall, by February
28, 1997, employ procurement agents, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to assist the
Republika Srpska in carrying out the procurement of goods and works under the Project. The Federation
and Republika Srpska shall each: (a) by May 31, 1997, employ consultants, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, to carry out a study on alternatives for the reform of the financing of their respective
health sectors; (b) by May 31, 1998, carry out each said study; (c) coordinate on the findings of the
respective studies; and (d) furnish to IDA, for review and comment, the conclusions and
recommendations of the respective studies, and advise IDA of the reform measures that the Federation
and Republika Srpska intend to make in the financing of their respective health sectors.



- 38 -
G. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Justification and Benefits
121.    As a part of the comprehensive Program for the hospital sector, which was prepared within the
overall post-war health system reconstruction and development program of the Government, the Project
will contribute to the successful reconstruction and reform of the health sector by (a) restoring basic
hospital services, and (b) establishing a sustainable health system through carefully planned health
finance reforms. This section presents: (a) the policy context; (b) an overview of the cost attached to
alternative approaches to the proposed strategy for recovery in the hospital sub-sector; and (c) the
estimated contribution of this Project to the health status of the population.
122.    The policy environment and linkage to economic and sector work. The Project is consistent
with the focus of the post-war recovery in Bosnia and Herzegovina and with the Health Program of the
Ministry of Health in each entity. The country faces three major challenges. First, the reconstruction
and recovery program necessitated by the war damage has to be implemented. Second, new governance
structures and institutions for economic management must be established. Finally, the transition to a
market economy must be managed successfully.7 The Project fits into this policy environment in two
ways. First, it will result in a net inflow of resources into the health sector. The broader Essential
Hospital Services Program provides the donor community with a framework for investment to support
the recovery of the health sector. For example, the Governments of Canada, Greece, Hungary, Italy,
Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, as well as the United States Agency for International Development,
have expressed interests in the sub-sector. Second, the Project will facilitate the development of
management structures and systems to ensure effective risk pooling, improved efficiency and cost
control .
123.    No formal sector work was done prior to the appraisal of this Project, due to the severity and
urgency of post-war needs, the rapid pace of work in BH and the very limited availability of organised
databases. Instead, for each of the main components of the Project -- rehabilitation/ renovation, medical
equipment and health finance reforms -- the Working Group of each MOH, the International
Management Group (IMG), Bank staff and consultants conducted the minimum necessary analyses to
make informed judgements about investment priorities. These analyses of limited scope were done with
a focus on: (a) the needs expressed by the Ministry of Health of each entity; (b) prospects for
sustainability, based upon projected rates of economic growth and expected levels of expenditure in the
health sector; (c) the minimum level of investments to ensure that secondary-level hospital services of
good quality will be available to support the functions of a reformed primary health care/ sub-hospital
level; and d) the need to avoid uncoordinated large-scale investments in the hospital sub-sector, thereby
avoiding a situation whereby future recurrent costs will starve the sub-hospital level of needed resources.
These are presented in detail in the appendices.
124.    Alternative approaches and their costs: There would have been basically two broad
alternatives to the proposed Essential Hospital Services Program of each entity (of which the proposed
The World Bank. Bosnia and Herzegovina: Toward Economic Recovery. Prepared by the World Bank, the
European Commission and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 1996.



- 39 -
Project is a sub-set of the highest priority investments). The first scenario, and the appropriate
counterfactual in any economic analysis of the proposed Project, would have been to have no Bank
involvement in the hospital sub-sector at all. In this scenario, there would have been little or no
articulation of priorities, and both Government and donor investments would be made on an ad-hoc
basis. It is most likely that, considering the current climate of donor fund shortages, without the explicit
priorities set forth in the Program and the proposed Project, donors would focus on high-visibility
tertiary-level equipment and civil works, to the detriment of much needed investments in cantonal
hospitals. The end result would have been poor coordination of donor assistance, unnecessary increase
in unit costs, waste and increased waste and inequity.
125.     The second scenario would have consisted of a "wholesale" reconstruction of the hospital sub-
sector, without introducing the basis for ensuring minimal sustainability. In the Federation, for example,
this approach would have resulted in the restoration of the pre-war hospital bed capacity of 10,296,
whereas the entire Program plans to restore a capacity of 8,476, a reduction of almost 20 percent. The
Project, by comparison, will impact on only 50 percent of this reduced number. This wholesale
reconstruction alternative, together with the rehabilitation of facilities, would have also restored all the
inefficiencies of the pre-war system: poorly maintained structures and insufficient recurrent operational
funds to ensure that the hospital system functions adequately. Although difficult to quantify, the
proposed Project strongly reduces the risks of reconstructing highly under-financed hospital services in
the near future.
126.   Direct Economic Benefits: The project investments in the hospital sector will restore to fully
functional status a restricted number of beds in secondary hospital facilities and will support them with
carefully chosen equipment (see Appendices on Hospital Equipment and Supplies for methodological
details). The chosen process was designed to include only equipment that (a) has been demonstrated to
be both clinically effective and cost-effective and (b) in total, will generate recurrent financial costs that
could be sustained within the projected financial capacity of the hospital
127.   This Project supports an overall strategy to bring about more cost-effective use of resources
committed to the health sector. The benefits of reallocating resources to more effective uses can take
two forms. One is lower costs to achieve the same impact that current health services have on health
outcomes and health status. The other form is a heightened impact on health outcomes and health status
for the same level of resource use. In practice, the benefits of health reform are likely to take both forms.
128.   However, many of the Project's benefits -- particularly those associated with health-sector
reform -- cannot be accurately quantified. Nevertheless, their potential order of magnitude is substantial,
as two indicative calculations suggest. First, the health sector is likely to absorb at least 4 percent of
GDP in the medium term. If health reform increases the efficiency with which the sector uses resources
by even 5 percent, this will translate into a stream of productivity gains equivalent to 0.2 percent of GDP
per year.
129.   Indirect Economic Benefits: Over and above these direct economic benefits, there are indirect
benefits. When health systems succeed in keeping people healthier or deliver more effective curative
care, the population can lead more productive lives. Workers produce more because they spend less time
recuperating from their own illnesses or caring for family members who are sick; students learn more;



- 40 -
and some people avoid the enduring ill-effects that certain illnesses bring. In short, human capital is
preserved and quality of life is enhanced.
130.    In Bosnia and Herzegovina, a functioning, reforming health sector that is sustainable should
also bring other intangible but important benefits. The strategy for nation-building and for promoting
lasting peace rests on recreating viable, valued systems for meeting people's basic needs. Access to
effective health services is a high priority in this context -- a credible peace dividend.
131.    Improvement of Health Status. The estimated total number of disability-adjusted life years
(DALYs) lost in the Formerly Socialist Economies of Europe in 1990 was 57,779,000. Of this total, 8.6
percent were due to communicable, maternal and peri-natal causes, 74.5 percent were due to non-
communicable (neoplastic nutritional/ endocrine, neuro-psychiatric, cardiovascular, respiratory,
digestive, genito-urinary, musculo-skeletal, congenital and oral), and 16.9 percent were due to injuries. 8
Assuming the same distribution of DALYs lost for Bosnia and Herzegovina prior to the war, this
distribution has probably been altered by the high incidence and prevalence of injuries during the war.
Many of the needs for physical and psycho-social rehabilitation are being addressed by, among others,
the Bank-supported War Victims Rehabilitation Project.
132.    The proposed Essential Hospital Services Project, together with planned investments in
primary health care, will provide the basis for sustainable gains in the health status of the population in
the medium term by restoring the most necessary secondary-level services and by serving as a vehicle for
reforming the financing of the health sector with a focus on universal risk pooling and efficiency . The
restoration of good quality care will eliminate the avoidable costs of treating complications arising from
inappropriate diagnoses and treatments.
8Murray, C.J.L. and Lopez, A.D. Global Comparative Assessments In The Health Sector. World Health
Organization, Geneva. 1194.



- 41 -
Project risks
133.    Limited implementation capacity could delay the implementation of the proposed Project.
This risk will be mitigated by the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit in each entity, that will
build on the resources and experience of the PIU which has been developed and is operational for the
War Victims Rehabilitation Project in the Federation. Each PIU will be supported by appropriate
technical assistance and by the Bank's Social Sector Operations Officer, based in Sarajevo. Project
implementation could also be delayed through shortages of co-financing. This risk is being mitigated by
active communication among the Ministry of Health in each entity, the Bank and likely donors.
134.    Significant risks within the Project, for the most part, are associated with: (i) political context
of and constraints on the definition of health sector policy; (ii) financial constraints on Project size,
including limited availability of IDA funds and co-financing; (iii) current state of post-war disruption
and evolving reconciliation within the country; and (iv) pressures for early action to improve health
service delivery within BH, which may not consider the most effective and sustainable approaches to
restructuring the health sector.
135.    One major set of risks is associated with the Federation Government's present commitment to
a policy of making cantonal governments responsible for most aspects of health policy, financing and
administration, possibly within a matter of months. Several factors underlie that commitment: (i) the
tradition of substantially decentralized health care within the former Yugoslavia; (ii) consistent with the
rationale for decentralization, the desire to locate responsibility for health services as close as possible to
the people affected by them; and (iii) the political impetus to avoid creating health insurance
arrangements that effectively cross-subsidize health care provision among high- and low-income areas.
Making cantons responsible for health care financing and delivery will remove from the Federation's
political stage this politically intractable issue of equity in access to health services. Potentially, the
Federation Government's commitment to this governance strategy for the health sector could result in up
to ten separate health care financing and delivery systems with the Federation, in addition to the
centralized system in RS. In practice however, this risk is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the
legislation under preparation opens the possibility for cantons to choose to group together and develop
coordinated or integrated financing systems. The end result will therefore likely be the emergence of
two to four separate health financing systems. These groupings will correspond to a considerable degree
to prior patterns of affiliation among cantons, a translation of the current political reality in BH.
136.    Other risks, also linked to the Federation Government's commitment to this strategy, could
result in less than optimal implementation of the Federation MOH reform process. These are: (i) the
difficulty or inability of the poorest cantons to finance their obligation to provide access to a Federation-
specified minimum package of care; (ii) the limited capacity of the Federation MOH to exert sufficient
policy leverage to maintain control over the restructuring of health care delivery and financing systems
within the various cantons; (iii) the limited capacity of the Federation MOH to turn its health reform
strategy into an implementable process; (iv) the high administrative cost of managing and operating
multiple cantonal health care financing and delivery systems for a small population. These costs may
prove unsustainable in a recovering economy and a still relatively poor country. Counterpart policy
makers expect that cantonally based health care systems will provide unequal access to care across
cantons, reflecting the different average levels of income across cantons.



- 42 -
137.  Within the above-mentioned constraints and risks, a number of mitigating factors are also to be
considered and have been taken into account in Project preparation. First, the pre-war Yugoslav health
system was among the most sophisticated in Eastern Europe, and it retains health sector personnel with
the vision, the will and the skills to achieve sustainable transformation of the current war-damaged
system. In that context and with judicious use of technical assistance, there is a real possibility that
demonstration of the economies of scale that could be achieved in a simplified, less fragmented system
will lead to revision of the Federation strategy. Second, the task of reforming health care delivery and
financing has proven to be highly complex in all other transition economies -- and even in established
market economies -- which did not face the complex context of post-war BH. Expectations must
therefore be kept at reasonable levels, with considerable emphasis on productive partnerships among BH,
IDA and the donors. Third, the Project itself is intended to provide a broad range of technical assistance
that should enhance and build up the Federation's and Republika Srpska's capacity to design, implement
and sustain systemic reforms.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (the Federation)
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruciton of Hospitals Component
(This table shows the entire Federation Program only, from which the Project is derived. See Appendix 3 for portions covered by the Project)
Name and location       Hospital capacity (number of beds)     Estimated cost of required work (US$ millions)
lWards/clinics/operating theaters General services
Before War   As of April'96  Planned total Rehab. of iCompletio iNew  General  General  Total
damaged :of work  :building   service   service   for
structures 'already         building   equipment hosp.
istarted   I
i- --
1 Clinical Center, Sarajevo       3306         1943         1740       5.9;     10.0;     7.6       0.6      0.9     25.0
l        l
2 Clinical Center, Tuzla          1950         1739         2279       1.1i      2.0i     1.7       1.5      0.9       7.2
i        i
3 Clinical Center, Mostar         1100         1200         1200       1.1'      6.1'     1.0       0.0      0.4       8.6
l        l
4 State Hosptial, Sarajevo         420          250          300       0.9       0.0      0.0       0.4      0.0       1.3
l        l
5 Cantonal Hosp., Zenica          1815         1109         1109       0.0i      0.0i     0.0       0.9      0.5       1.4
6 Cantonal Hospital, Livno         280          199          248       0.0o      2.2:     0.0       0.3      0.2       2.7
l        l
7 Cantonal Hospital, Bihaj         800         1000          800       1.2i      0.0i     0.0       0.0      0.9       2.1
i        i
8 Cantonal Hospital, Travnik       410          410          410       0.6'      0.0'     0.0       0.0      0.6       1.2
l        l
9 Cantonal Hospital, Jajce         200          200          200       0.0;      0.0;     0.0       0.0      0.4       0.4
'i       i
10 Cantonal Hospital, Orajce          0           46           70       0.0      0.01     4.9       0.0      0.6       5.5
11 Cantonal Hospital, Gorazde        15           17          120       0.31      0.01     1.2       0.4      0.7       2.6
Column totals                  10296         8113          8476      11.0     20.3     16.4       4.1      6.1      58.0
Grand total                                                          58.0



Appendix 2
Page 1 of 6
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
Background
Biomedical technology represents a fundamental component of the health care delivery process,
on which the most of diagnostic, therapeutic and rehabilitation procedures are based. Both in
industrialized and developing countries, health services in hospitals are largely based on the use of
technology. As reported in the scientific literature, a close relationship can be found between the per-
capita GNP and the value of installed medical equipment. In particular, data collected at international
level -- on a large number of industrialized and developing countries -- show an almost constant ratio
between these three components:
- per-capita GNP
- per-capita health care expenditure
- per-bed equipment value
An immediate explanation can be found for justifying these data: medical technology is expensive
in terms of investment but also in terms of running costs. Therefore, if immediate problems related to
investments can sometimes be solved by external aid (for countries with insufficient internal resources
for investments), in the medium- to long-term the running costs must be sustained with internal
resources. As a result, even in the case of large donations of new and advanced technology (as it
happened in many developing countries), a mechanism of automatic readjustment takes place in a short
period of time, whereby only that portion of the externally-funded investment that is sustainable within
local resources is maintained and able to survive.
The main reasons for the premature de-commissioning of unsustainable technology can be found in
the costs for consumable materials and for maintenance that, on average, represent a yearly charge of 30-
35% of the cost of installed equipment. Unfortunately, running costs incidence is particularly noticeable
in the two fundamental technological components of diagnostic services: radiology and clinical
laboratory, which together represent around 50% of the installed equipment in a medium-sized hospital.
Medical technology for the other diagnostic and therapeutic services must cover the remaining 50%.
Any attempt to change this ratio (i.e.: trying to reduce consumable costs) will generate an unbalanced
system unable to support the hospital activity adequately.
Appraisal of the sustainable level of technology
An approxinate quantification of the optimal level of medical technology, in terms of correct ratio
between acceptable level of health services and sustainable costs, can be done on the basis of the
assumptions reported in Table 1, resulting from analyses carried out in some European countries (M. of
Health - Italy 1994; MDIS Reports - U.K. 1992).



Appendix 2
Page 2 of 6
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
Appendix 2, Table 1: Running costs of medical technology
(as a percentage of the replacement value of installed equipment)
Cost of consumables:                                            25%
Cost of external maintenance (manufacturer technical service):   10%
Cost of internal maintenance (hospital technicians)              5%
Amortization rate (10 years life-span):                         10%
TOTAL:                                   40-50%
Besides, in Europe, the annual market of biomedical tecnology (equipment and consumables)
represents, on average, less than 5% of the global budget for health care of a country. In the short-
medium term, in the Federation of BH we can expect that some costs components of health care (i.e.:
personnel) will be significantly lower than in other European countries. As a consequence, we can
estimate that the cost of technology will represent a greater component of the health care budget than in
other countries (up to 10%).
According to estimates coming from World Bank and from the Federation of BH Ministry of
Health, the yearly per-capita expenditure for health care should be between 80 and 95 US$ by the year
2000. Assuming a population of about 3 million inhabitants, it is possible to estimate a global budget for
health care of about 285 million US$, in the best case. As a consequence, the sustainable allocation of
funds for biomedical technology (amortization, running costs, materials, etc.) should range from 14 to 28
million US$ per year.
On the other side, integrating information coming from different sources (Ministry of Health,
WHO), it is possible to estimate a global replacement cost of 60 million US$ for the biomedical
equipment installed in all Federation of BH health care structures. Considering the running cost rates
previously indicated, corresponding to a total of 40-45% of the installed equipment value, it is possible
to estimate a medical technlogy running cost of 24 to 27 million US$ per year. This cost is approaching
the maximum allocation of funds for health technology allowed by the Federation of BH health care
budget for the year 2000.
From these data, it is possible to conclude that 60 million US$ represents the maximum amount
of medical technology sustainable by the Federation of BIH health care system and, as a
consequence, that all re-equipment plans should not exceed this limit. A reasonable strategy
would be to recover the 4-year period of total lack of investments, due to war contingencies, in
order to cover the amortization shares (10% per year) and to preserve the level of obsolescence of
equipment.  In practical terms, at present about 40%  of existing equipment is eligible for
replacement with new technology. Besides, the Program is aimed at establishing a permanent
policy of replacement of obsolete equipment, in order to preserve the value of investments and the
quality of health care services. As a consequence, assuming a duration of the Program of 3 years
(1997-1999), a further 40% of investment has been planned to cover the post-war period 1996-
1999. In particular, in the 11 hospitals covered by the Essential Hospital Services Program, a
replacement value of installed medical equipment of about 40 million US$ has been estimated.



Appendix 2
Page 3 of 6
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
The replacement of 80% of this equipment corresponds to an investment of 32 million US$,
representing the optimal size for the medical equipment component of the Program.
Appendix 2, Table 2: Estimate of health care and medical technology
costs in the Federation of BH
MIN             MAX
Per-capita health care expenditure (US$)                      75               95
Population                                                              3,000,000
Global budget for health care (US$/year)             225,000,000      285,000,000
Cost share for medical technology (best case, US$/year)  14,000,000    28,000,000
(5% E.U. Countries, 10% BH)
Replacement value of medical equipment presently
installed in hospitals (US$)                                           60,000,000
Running costs (US$iyear)                              24,000,000       27,000,000
In order to assure the full operation of both the existing equipment and the equipment that will
replace the obsolete one, a financial support covering 50% of consumable costs is projected, assuming
that the progressive implementation of the health financing mechanism and the progressive increase of
incomes will allow the coverage, by the end of the project, the full operational costs of installed
technology.
Criteria for the identification of priorities
On the basis of estimates previously reported, a careful assessment has been made in order to identify
priorities for the replacement of existing equipment. The primary objective of this analysis was the
identification of equipment configurations able to assure basic diagnostic and therapeutic services at a
level adequate to the demand and compatible with the economic constraints that will affect the health
care budget in the next years. The basic issues on which the assessment has been based are:
-  identification of essential hospital services according to their social and epidemiologic impact;
-  age of installed equipment;
-  uniform level of technology between hospital services;
-  uniform level of technology between hospitals of same level; and
-  size of hospital and actual size of population served;
As a result of this assessment, a re-equipment plan has been developed addressing the priorities
according to the specific situation of each hospital and to the assessment criteria previously indicated
This medium-term investment plan covers a global period of 3 years (1992 - 1999) and is aimed at
covering the essential diagnostic and therapeutic services of the 2nd and 3rd level health care structures
of the Federation. Appendix 2, pages 4 and 5 show the global Program estimates for the Medical
Equipment and Supplies 3. Appendix 2, page 6 shows that portion of the Program to be covered by this
Project in the Federation.



Bosnia and Herzegovina                                          Appendix 2
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)                        Page 4 of 6
1   Global Medical Equipment Needs, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina   7 7 7
I I(From Essential Hosp. Services Program, prepared by Working Group of MOH with support of World Bank and WHO). April-July, 1996
EquipmentctgrKulctKGS                                  U     O      00     A Li R   TR  ZE tOtal             OA
Medical diagnotic equipment* (esthimate) qty  Ili  qt   qVty  qty'  ty 'qy     qty. qtyqyty         CS
11 . jEcgsingle -channel                   4,000             3    2    2    2    2    2    2   2   3       20        80,000
12.  Ecg three -channel                    7,000        2    3    3    2    2    1   2    1   2    3       21       147,000
1 3.  Defibrillator                        9,000   2   2    4    3    3    2    2    2    1   2    3       26       234,000
1 4.  Monitor for cardiovascular parameters   15,000   6    6    8    8    4    4    4    8    2   4    8  62       930,000
1 5.  Diagnostic ultrasound system       100,0600   2        2        -     1    1    1    1   1   1        10    1,000,000
16.  Diagn. ultrasound system Doppler   200,000   1    1   1    1    1   -      -     1   -     1   1        8    1,600,000
1 7.  Central Monitoring system          110,000   1    1    1    1    1                        1    1      7       770,000
1 8.  Fetal monitor                       15,000   2    1   2    2    2    1   2    2    1   2   2          1 9     285,000
1 9.  Stress Test System                  40,000   1~ ~1    1    1    1               1         1    1       8      320,000
110. Electroencephalograph                25,000   2    1   2    1      1          1            1    1      1 0     250,000
111. Perimeter                            20,000   i    1    1    1    1              1         1    1       8      160,000
1 12. Timpanometer                        18,000   1         1         1                             1      4        72,000
1 13. Audiometer                          30,000   1   1    1    1    1               11             1       8      240.000
Hemodialysis equipment____
114. Hemodialysis unit                    25.000   6    2    6    3    4    2    2   2    6   2   4         39      975,000
Surgical equipment                                                                                      ______
2 15. Electrosurgical unit                10,000   6    2    4    4    2    1    2   2   2   2    3         30      300,000
2 16. Surgical operating table            50,000   4   2          4         1   2    1   2    1   2         19      950,000
2 17. Surgical aspirator                   4,000   6   4    4    4    2    1   2   2    2    3   5          35      140,000
2 18. Surgical lamp                       20,000   2   2          4    2    1   2    1   2   2    2        20       400,000
219. Surgical instruments set             20,000   6   4    5    5    3    2    4    3   4    3   4        43       860,000
2 20. Labour table                         5,000   4    2    4    2    2    1   2    2   2   2    3         26      130,000
Anesthesia and ICU equipment                                                                             ______
3 21. Anesthesia unit                     40,000   6    2    2    3    1    1   2    1   2   2   2          24      960,000
3 22. Pulmonary ventilator                20,000   4    2    2    3    2    1    1   2    1   1   2         21      420,000
3 23. Infant incubator                    20,000   4    2    6    2    1         2    1   1    1   2       22       440.000
3 24. Infant incubator, portable          14.000   2    2    4    2    2    1    1    1   1   1   2         19      266,000
3 25. Anesthesia ranimation set           10,000   6   4    5   5    4    2    3    3    3   3    4        42       420,000
326. Oxygen unit                           3,000   6   2    5    4 j2    2    4    3    5 13   4           401      120,000
327. Anesthesia monitor                   15,000   4    3   4    4    21 1                      2    2     22       330,000
3128. Bed for intensive care              10,000  12   8   10   8   6    4    4    4    4   4    8         72       720,000
3 29. IR warmer                           10,000   2    1   2    2    1    1    1   1    1   1   1          14      140,000
3 30. Infusion pump                        3,000  20   10   10  10   8    4    4    4    4   6   10    90           270,000
__    _Diagnostic x-ray equipment                                                                            _______
431. C arm mobile x-ray tv system        150,000   1   1   2   2    1                 1         1    1      1 0    1,500,000
4 32. X-ray Diagnostic system            400,000   2    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1   1    1       1 2    4,800,000
4 33. X-ray film processor, automatic     25,000   2    2    3   2    2    2    1   2    1   2    2        21       525,000
4 34. X-ray Computed Tomography systern  750,000   1                                                 1      2    1,500,000
Diagnostic endoscopy equipment
5 35. Gastroscope                         30,000   2    1   2   2    11 1                            2     12       360,000
5 36. Colonoscope                         30,000   2    i   2    1    1                         1    1      9       270,000
5 37. Cystoscope                          25,000   2    1   2    2    1               1              1     il1      275,000
5 38. Bronchoscope                        30,000   2    i     11                                    1      81      240,000
5 39. Arthroscope                         30,000   1    1        11                                       5       150,000
5 40. Colposcope                           7,000   1   1    1   1    1    1    1    1   1    1   2         12        84,000
Clinical laboratory equipment______
6 41. Blood cell counter                  50,000   1   1    1   1           1    1   -     1    1   1       9       450,000
6 42. Automated chemistry analyzer        90,000   1  1  1    1        1              1 -    1    1         8       720,000
6 43. Spectrophotometer                   14,000   1   1    1   -      1    1    1    1    1   1    1      10       140,000
6 44. Refrigerated centrifuge             20,000   1   1~2        1    1              1   -     1   1       9       180,000
6 45. Bench centrifuge                     8,000   2   2     22    2    2                  2   2    2      18       144,000
6 46. ABS analyzer                        16,000   2    2 2       1    1    1    1    1    1   1   1       14       224,000
6 47. Microscope                          10,000   4   4     4    4    3    3    3    3    3    3   4      38       380,000
6 48. Spectrofluorimeter                  22,000   1   i    1   1   1                                1      61      132,000
6 49. Immunoassay analyzer                50,000  -     1~  1   -      1              1   - -       -       41      200,000
6 50. Thermostat 37C                       8,000   2      [2   1    2    1    1   1    1   1   2           14       112,000
8 51. Laborat. Balance (0,1 mg.)           3,000   1  -~1                   1 1 -          1   1   1        7        21,000
6 52. Electrophoresis system              25,000   2   1    2 11                        1     1    1       101      250,000
Sterilization, Washing, Drying Equipment   ____



Bosnia and Herzegovina                           APPENDIX 2
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)            Page 5 of 6
7153. Autoclave                       I 15.000 j         i   I         i 1   1        145,000
7154, |Sterilizator                     120,000 1 3 1 2   2i2 1 2    1   1   2 t 1   2                   22 [20    2,400,000
7 55. I Cleaner-desinfector for anesthetic instri  45,000 i 2   2  1    2 1  -   -              1  1    9        405,000
7 56. ICleaner for endosc. instruments   20_000 ! 2        2   2 1           1      I         I I 1      11      220.000
757. Water destilator                 j  12,0001                                         I  1   1   1     3       36,000
758. IWashing machine, glass labware     30.000       2 i2    2 12   1   1   1 I              1 12   115         450,000
Vehicles                                  l     Li        j       -             1         i
8159. IAmbulances                        30,000 ! 3   2   3j 3 I 2   2   2   2               2 | 3       24      720,000
8 60. IFully equipped ambulances         50.000 1 3   2   3 1 3   2    1   1   2 j 2   2 12 j23    1,150,000
8 61. I Reanimation vehicle              70,000 i 2 | 1   1     1 _                                       5      350.000
_         __________ __ _ _ _- 32,362,000
_    KC: Kosevo Clinical Center, Sarajevo                   i                        i
SH: State Hospital, Sarajevo
TU: Clinical Center, Tuzla      _= =_==__
MO: Clinical Center, Mostar                             I 
BI: Cantonal Hospital, Bihaj
IGO: Cantonal Hospital, Gorazde
JA: Cantonal Hospital, Jacjce    =__i                          =    = ==
LI: Cantonal Hospital, Livno     i_____.
OR: Cantonal Hospital, Orasji                   -                                               -
OR: Cantonal Hospital, Trasnik                          i                       i_i
ZE: Cantonal Hosptial, Zeniza              =          =                                     -    -



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component (for the Project)
Confirmed by Federation MOH on October 15,1996
UANLWTfTY PER $OSPITL                                                  -cEUPM; 
-  -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~MA                                      TOTA   ,PRIORI3. EUIM,               COSM ,OSJ,'~RU
KO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'COST                                                                        ~r~O
.US       KG    TU.... M     '3':.'W  't.... BlSZ  GO' tosP ALJ<   OR~  .'TA        E'. T_____
1. Ecg single- channel             4,000         3            -      2     1      1     1     1      2     2        13      A               52,000      4                  2,080    DE
2. Ecgthree-rchannel               7,000         3      -     1      2     1      1     1      1     1      1       12       A              84,000      4                  3,360    DE
3. Defibnlator                     9,000   1     2      3     2      2     1      1     1      1     1     2        17       A             153,000      4                  6,120    AN
4. Fetal Monitor                  15,000   1     2      2     1            1      1     1      1     1      1       12       A             180,000      4                  7,200    DE
5. Hemodialysis unit              25,000   7     4      4     2      2     1      1     1     2      1     2        27       A             675,000     100               675,000    HE
6. Electrosurgical unit           10,000   4     2      2     1      1     1      1     1      1     1      1       16       A             160,000      4                  6,400    SU
7. Surgical operaUng table        50,000   3            2     1            I      -  1               -      1        9       A             450,000      0                      -   SU
8. Electrical aspirator            4,000   4     3      2     2      2     1      1     1      1     2     2        21       A              84,000      4                  3,360    SU
9. Surgicallamp                   20,000   2      .     3     1      1     1      1     1      1     1      2       14       A             280,000      4                 11,200    SU
10. Anesthesia apparatus          40,000   4      1     2      1     -      1     1      1     1      1     -       13       A             520,000       4                20,800    AN
11. Incubator-sstabonary          20,000   1      2     1      1     1      -            1     1      1     1       10       A             200,000       4                 8,000    AN
12. Incubator- portable           14.000   1      1     1      1     1      1     1      1     1      1     1       11       A             154,000       4                 6,160    AN
13. Anesthesia reanimation set    10,000   4      4     4      2     2      2     2      1     1      2     2       26       A             260,000       4                10,400    AN
14. Bloodcell counter             49,800   -      -            1     -      1     1      -     1     1               5       A             249,000      45               112,050    CL
15. ABS analyzer                  16,000   1      1     1      1                         1     1      1              9       A             144,000      45                64,800    CL
16. Autoclave                     15,000   -            -      -                                 .1  1  1   -        3       A              45,000      1,5                  670    ST
17. Sterlizator                  120,000   1            1      1     1      1     1      1            1     1        9       A            1,080,000      4                43,200    ST
4,770,000                      980,800
EQUIPMENT                  CONSUMABLES
Clinical Centers:            1,813,000  38%                                                     HE    Hemodialysis                       675,000                       675.000
Cantonal Hospitals           2,957,000  62%                                                     SU    Surgery                            974,000                        20,960
AN    Anesthesia & ICU                1,287,000                        51,480
DE    Diagnostic Equipment              316,000                        12.640
CL    Clinical Lab                      393,000                       176.850
ST    Sterilization                   1,125,000                        43,870
KC - Kosevo Clinical Center, Sarajevo    SH - State Hospital, Sarajevo                JA - Cantonal Hospital, Jacjce                 TR - Cantonal Hospital, Travnik                              >
TU - Clinical Center. Tuzba              BI - Cantonal Hospital, Bihac                Li - Cantonal Hospital - Livno                 ZE - Cantonal Hospital, Zeniza                              1 
MO - Clinical Center, Mostar             GO - Cantonal Hospital, Gorazde              OR - Cantonal Hospital, Orasie                                                                           fi.
C_.



Federation of Bosnia-H4rregovins
Sss*ntial Hospital ServiCes
Table I. Physical Pehabilltation of Hospitals
Detailed Coats
(us$ 1000)
_  tuantitia          (tUnit    Totals Including ContinqencIes
t)nit   1997  1991  1999  Total Cost    1997        1998      1999    Total
I. Saesteet Costs
A. Cli1ima  CGear, Ux&eo
1. Rehabilitation of Damaged StructUrOS   Is                                            632.1    653.2    162.1  2,167.7
2. General Services Building                1l                                          253.3    262. 112.5    588.2
3. General Services Squipent                 Is                                         378.e    391.9    108.7    679.5
"total cl-m-s  Center,  arajav                                                           1,264.1  1.307.6    363.6  2.935.3
J. clininl canter, Tula
3. Rehabilitation of Damaged Structures   Is                                            270.6    280.1       71.9    626.6
2. General Service$ Building                 Is                                         108.2    110.7       31.7    210.7
3. General Services tquipment                Is                                         160.2    167.2       46.4    373,e
Subtotal Clinical C-ter. TUXSla                                                            539.0    118.0    164.0  1,251.1
C. Cliajoel Center, hIntar
1. Rehebilitation of Damaged Sttuctutes   1s                                            497.9      113.7    142.7  I,lS4.3
2. General S-rvices Building                  Is                                        165.6    171.6       47.6    384.8
3. Generol srvices aquipent                   1s                                        165.6    171.6       47      364.9
aSbtotal Clinical Center, Heater                                                           829.0    817.0    237.9  1,923.9
. State tioepital   arajevo
1. Rehabilitation of Damaged Structures luwposum                                        213.2    220.3       61.2    494.7
l. CantoC      Hospital, Sanic&
1. General servic*s Building               luepsu                                       1146.3    153.9      44.2    346.4
2. Genral Services Equipent                luapau                                        64.9      664 A      7.0    146.4
Subtotal Cantonal Hospital, Senica                                                         213.2    220.3       61.2    494.7
r. Cantonl Hospital, Lisvno
1. General Services Building               luepsum                                      14.3    153.9       44.2    346.4
2. General Services Equipment              luepaum                                       64.9      66.4      17.0    148.1
Subtotal Cantonal Hospital, Livno                                                          213.2    220.3       61.2    494.7
a. Camtonal  *ospital, Bibae
1. Rehabilitation of Damaged Structures   In                                             70.3      73.1      20.4    163.8
2. General Services Equipment                 Is                                        106.1    109.6       30.6    246.3
"utotal Cantonal Hoepital,  Atl                                                            176.4    162.7       51.0    410.1
H. CanCt-I Hospital, TravDik
1. Rehabilitation of Damagod Structures   Is                                             33.6      3S.4      10.2     79.2
2. General Services Equipment                18                                          34.6      35.4       9.1     79.1
SubtOet    Cantonal Joapital, Travolk                                                       68.2      70.9      19.3    158.3
S. C atenal Hospital, Jaice
1. General Services Equipment                1a                                          41.1      46.1      12.5    104.1
J. Cantoal Hospital, Oral-s
1. Gneral Services Building                  Is                                          43.1      42.1      11.3      94.1
2. General Servie*a Equipent                 1s                                          27.1      2.9.       7.9      63.8
Subtotal antonal Hospital. Oraje*                                                           68.2      70.9      19.3    156.3
t. Cantonal Hospital, Gorgade
1. Rehabilitation of Damged Structures   Is                                             142.9    148.4       40.8    332.0
2. Gensral Services Building                 Is                                          71.4      73.1      21.5    166.0
3. General Servic*s Squipment                1s                                         142.9    148.4       41.9    333.1
"btotal entonal Hospital t;ormade                                                          357.2    369.8    104.2    831.2
t. Design and Supervison /a                   luipsum                                      160.7    184.9    189.2    514.8
X. Procurement Agent lb                          Is                                         109.4     67.1      41.8    222.3
Total                                                                                          4,277.4  4,376.4  1,380.1 10,033.8
%a 6 percent of investment.
Vb 2.5 petcent of investment.
UAW
1-1 Physical Rehabilltation of Hospitals



Federation of Bosnia-Herzeoovina
Essential Hospital Services
Table 2. Medical Equipment
Detailed Coste
(US$ '000
Quantities          Unit  Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1996  1999  rotal Cost   1997    1998           1999    Total
X. Investment Costs
A. sdical Equipment
1. ECG Single-Channel                                          lu psum                                        11.5    22.2    19.6    55.6
2. Ei G Three-channel                                          luapsum                                        21.9    35.8    32.1    09.7
3. Defibrillator                                               lumpsum                                        39.9    65.2    58.4   163.5
4. Fetal Monitor                                               lumpsum                                        46.9    76.7    69.7   192.3
5. Hemodialysis                                                lumpaup                                       175.8   287.8   257.6   721.2
6. Electrosurgical Unit                                        lumpsum                                        41.7    68.2    61.1   170.9
7. surgical Operating Table                                    lumpaum                                       117.2   191.8   171.7   480.8
B. Electrical Aspitator                                        lu pau.                                        21.9    35.8    32.1    e9.7
9. Surgical Lamp                                               lumpau                                         12.9   119.4   106.9   299.2
10. Anesthesia Apparatus                                       lumpsum                                       135.4   221.7   198.4   555.6
11. Stationary Incubator                                       lumpsus,                                       52.1    65.3    76.3   213.1
12. Portable Incubator                                         lunpsum                                        40.1    65.7    58.8   164.5
13. Anesthesia Reanieation Set                                 lumpsuis                                       67.7   110.8    99.2   277.8
14. Blood Cell Counter                                         lumpsue                                        64.9   106.2    95.0   266.0
15. ABS Analyzer                                               lupsue                                         37.5    61.4    55.0   153.8
16. Autoclave                                                  lumpsurm                                       11.7    19.2    17.2    48.1
17. Sterilizator                                               lumpsua                                       281.3   460.4   412.1 13153.9
Subtotal Medical Eiuipmnt                                                                                     1,242.4 2,033.6 1,820.3 5,096.3
B. Saup3ies and Conemableg
1. for Hemodialysis                                            lumpsum                                       175.8   287.6   257.6   721.2
2. for Surgery                                                 luiepsum                                        5.5      8.9      S.0    22.9
3. Anesthesia and ICU                                          lumpaun                                        13.4    21.9    19.6    55.0
4. Diagnostic Equipment                                        lumpsum                                         3.3      5.4      4.8    13.5
5. for Clinical Laboratory                                     lunp3um                                        46.1    75.4    67.5   188.9
6. tor Sterilization                                           Iumpsun                                        11.4    18.7    16.7    46.9
Bubtotal Supplies and Conee_bles                                                                                2555   418.1   374.3 1.047.9
C. Local Technioal Aasistance
1. Steering Committee on Essential Hospital S-rvices /a   a/m                5     S      5    15       2    10.4    10.7    10.9    32.0
2. Procurement Services fb                                     lurpsum                                        41.7    85.3    87.2   214.2
Subtotal Local Technical Assistance                                                                              52.1    95.9    98.1   246.1
Total Xavestment Costs                                                                                            1,550.0 2,547.6 2,292.7 6,390.3
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Medical Equipment OcM                                           lwUpUaM                                      124.2   330.5   520.1   974.8
Total Recurrent Coato                                                                                                124.2   330.5   520.1   974.6
Total                                                                                                               1,674.2 2,678.1 2,812.8 7.365.1
\a 10 experts working on pact-time basis for 10 days/yr.
\b professional fee for ptocure.ent of medical equipment and priority consumables lhemodialysis, a-ray, clinical lab). Protessional fe  - 2.58.
t   '
2-1 MedicaI Equipment



Fedezation1 of 13osnia-Her-zr.qv "a
Essential Hospital Services
Table 3. Upgrading Clinical Skills
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals including
Quantities          Unit         Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  Total Cost  1997  1998  1999  Total
1. Inv-at_nt Cowt.
A. Equipmet  1a  )IariaJa
1. Training/1LEooe Equipment
IT Equipment for Clinical Centers /a                     aet         -      3     -      3    i8       -  57.6       -  57.6
PC end Prihters for cantonal hospitals                   Set         -      a     -      8   2.5       -  21.3       -  21.3
Photocopiors for Clinical Centers                       piece        -      3     -      3   2.5       -   8.0       -   8.0
Audio-visual squipment for Clinical Centers /b            set        -      3      -     3      5      -  16.0       -  16.0
Audio-Visual Equipment for Canton Hlospitals              set        -      B     - _        3.2S      -  27.7       -  27.7
total Training/Office Euipment                                                                            - 130.6       - 130 6
2. ea4rning eecoureea
Books and journals for Clinical Centers                lumpawu                                      11.3  28.8  17.7  57.7
Books and Journals for Canton Hospitals                loupaun                                      12 5  32 0   19 6  64 1
"tbotal Learning  tAsounr:ew                                                                           23.8  60.8  37.3 121.8
"total Equipment ad Materials                                                                             23.  3 91.3  37.3 252.4
D. Iboiture
1. Furniture  or Seminar Rms. - Clinical Centers /c luapsuo                                            15.6  63.9       -  79.6
2. Furniture for Seminar Rs. in Canton Hospitals   lunpaue                                             12 5  51.2       -  63 7
sutotal Fumnitura                                                                                         28.1 115.1       - 143.2
C. Technical Asietane-
1. International /d                                           e/m       I      1      -      2    15  15.9  16.3        -  32.2
2. Clinical Skills Development Group /e                      Ua,        5      5      5    IS      2  10.4  10.7  10.9  32.0
Buttotal Teohnical Aaistaance                                                                             26.3  27.0  10.9  64.2
D. Training /f
1. Local Traiuning
Clinical Skills Development Workshop /g                luiapsu                                      95 8 196 1 200 6 492 6
ottl Investment Coete                                                                                         174.1 529.5 2480.  952.4
11  Rocucrent Costs
A. Sequipment 0111 /h                                           1s                                          1.2  10.8  12.9  2%.9
Total Recurrent Coat                                                                                            1.2  IS.6  12.9  24.9
Total                                                                                                          175.3 540.3 261.7 977.2
\a IAN serv*t, 10 terminals and 3 printers. [to be confirmed with Suwat).
\b including overbead projector, slide projector, video canera and VMS, whiteboard.
\c furnitute for hospital seminar moons.
\d Development of training modules and training of trainers.
No 5 experts working on part-tine basis 120 days/yr.).
\f Cost of trainers and training naterials are included. Training program will be detailed by the clinical skills development group.
Ng 4 workshops per year for 5 days fro 20 staff from each hospital.
\h At 5 of investment coots.
2-1 Upgrading Clinical Skills                                                                        O   -.



Federation of Bosnia-HJerzegovina
Essential Hospital Services
Table 4. Health Financing Reform
Detailed Coots
(USs 000)
Quantities         Unit  Totels Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    Total
I. Investment Cots
A. Equipet
1. Eaebetial Cputer SquLipmnt
PCs for Central and Cantonal H4F                   piece           100      -   100   2.5         _   266.5        -   266.5
Terminals for Contral and Cantonal RIF             piece       -   135      -   135   0.6         -    86.3        -    86.3
HW/SW to upgrade processors                       luapsum                                         -   266.5        -   266.5
Botteries and atabilixrr                          luapsu                                          -    25.6        -    25.6
55btotal X-eetial Computer rquipmnt                                                                  -   644.8         -   644.8
2. Cauter tytma fot Pilot Areas
LANs Client/Server /a                             system       -     9      -     9    60         -   575.5        -   575.5
Software Applications                             lumpaun                                         -   159.9        _   159.9
Sbtotal Ctoiet Syetine for Pilot Areas                                                               -   735.4         -   735.4
Subtotal Zq.pment                                                                                       - 1,380.2         - 1,300.2
B. Tech. Aseit anae/Trainiog
1. Health Finance Coordinator                          am       3.5      2     2   7.5    15    54.7    32.0    32.7   119.4
2. Epapediture Survey
Technical Assistance                                sue      1.5     -      -   1.5    IS    23.4          -       -    23.4
Data Collection                                     Is                                         21.6    1           -    21.6
s>total Deadituze  Survey                                                                         45.0        -        -    45.0
3. Ineurawe sytems
Technical Assistance                                mm      6.25  3.75   3.5  13.5    15    97.7    60.0    57.2   214.9
Study Tours                                         1.                                       103.1        -        -   103.1
Overseas Training                                   1s                                         12.9    13.2        -    26.1
In-Service Training                                 Is                                        69.5    23.7         -    93.2
a*total lneurce Uyeteme                                                                         Z83.2    96.9    57.2   437.3
A. Baiec Health Package
Technical Asistance                                 mn       2.5  0.75  0.75      4    IS    39.1    12.0    12.3    63.3
Overaeas Training                                   1a                                            -    13.2    13.5    26.7
In-aervice Training                                 Is                                        46.4    23.7         -    70.1
Sb.total Saeic Health Package                                                                     85.4    48.9    25.5   160.1
S. ICH Planning vnit
Technical Assistance                                me         5   1.5   1.5      8    15    78.1    24.0    24.5   126.7
Overseas Training                                   Is                                            -    13.2    13.5    26.7
Bubtotal MMH Planning Unit                                                                        78.1    37.2    38.1   153.4
6. Steering Committe-                                  1.                                         10.7    11.0    11.2    32.9
Sotal IflUtUt Coat.                                                                                     557.2 1,606.2   165.0 2,328.4
U1. lecurrent Coots
A. 17 Systems Maintenance                               per/so.      -      -    12    12  12.5         -        -   163.5   163.5
B. IT Syste  Coneumablee
1. IT Supplies end Consueables - Central MIA         per/no.    12    12    12    36        2    25.0    25.6    26.2    76.8
2. IT supplies and consumables - cantonal HIA /b p*r/mo.    12    12    12    36   9.3   116.3   118.9   121.7   356.9
Total RIMurzent Costs                                                                                    11.3   144.5   311.4   597.2
Sotal                                                                                                     698.5 1,750.7   476.4 2,925.6
%e 3 for pilot hospitals, 3 for HIE and 3 for HOH/IPHC.
Nb Unit cost covers monthly supplies for S cantonal HIA Offices
I 3.
CM le
1_1 H.Alth Financinq R-form



Fdctetio,l cf 683H^rioqUrz)gvin,
issentisl hospitni1 Servi.ces
Table S. Ptojaet HMnage.ent
Detailed Coste
(US$ '0101
Totals Including
guantities          Unit        Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  Total Cost  1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Inveatment Costs
A. Office Eqiiaehnt
1. PC, fax, modem and printer  piece           4      -      -      4   4.5  18.8       -      -  18.8
2. Photocopier                     piece       I      -      -      1      3   3.1      -      -   3.1
btotal Oftice rqupment                                                           21.9       -     -  2t.9
D. techniaal Asaietaoc
1. aticeal Consultants
Project Director                m/n        12    12    12    36   2.5  31.3  32.0  32.7  95.9
Architect                        rn/m      12    12       6    30      2  25.0  25.6  13.1  63.7
Procurement specialist          r/r        12    12    12    36        2  2S.0  25.6  26.2  76.8
Accountant                      rnM        12    12    12    36   1.5  18.8  19.2  19.6  57.6
Support staff                    m/m       24    24    24    72        1  25.0  25.6  26.2  76.8
Subtotal Nation-l Consultants                                                125.0 127.9 117.8 370.7
C. PU Sttaff Training
1. Overseas Training /a             n/m        2      2      2      6   7.5  15.6  16.0  16.4  48.0
2. Local Training /b               days      225      -      -   225   0.1  23.4        -      -  23.4
Sutotal PIU Staff training                                                       39.1  16.0  16.4  71.4
Total Itvsetnt Costs                                                                 186.0 143.9 134.1 164.0
XI. Racurent Cost.
A. Operations costs                  per/no.    12    12    12    36          3  37.5  38.4  39.3 lli.1
B. Office Materialm and Supplies per/so.    12    12    12    36              5  62.5  63.9  65.4 191.9
Total Pecurrent Cots                                                                 100.0 102.3 104.7 307.0
Total                                                                                 286.0 246.2 238.8 771.0
\a Study tours for 6 persons for 10 days/year.
\b 3 workshops for 15 persons for 5 days on project implementation issues.
e-1 P
tn 
4-1 Project l{anngem-nt



Appendix 4
Page I of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Technical Assistance and Training Packages
Est Cost  Method    Prepare   Invitaion  Awar       onhct
US$M                Tenders              Contract  Completion
TA for MOH             0.03       DC       Dec-96    Dec-96
Steering Committee
Procurement            0.21        SL      Oct-96    Mar-97    Jan-97    Dec-99
Services
Clinical Skills         0.56       SL      Jan-97    Mar-97    May-97    Dec-98
Training TA
and
Training
Workshops (4)
Health                  2.1        SL      Jan-97    Dec-96    May-97    Dec-99
Finance TA
and Training
PCU TA Staff            0.4       SL       Nov-96    Dec-96    Dec-96    Dec-99
PCU Training           0.07       SL       Jan-97    Mar-97    Apr-97    Dec-98



Appendix 4
Page 2 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Hospital Equipment and Supplies Procurement Packages
Est. Cost Procurement  Prepare              Award    Contract
(LS$      Method   Tendering  Invitation  Contract Completion
Million)
Computer Equipment           1.4        IS        Jul-97    Aug-97    Sep-97      Jan-98
Office Equipment
a. PCUL/                   0.03        NS       Dec-96
b. Clinical Centers        0.01        NS       Dec-97
c. Clinical Centers        0.09        NS       Dec-97    Feb-98    Apr-98    May-98
IT Equipment
Furniture                    0.1        NS        Mar-97    May-97    Jul-97     Dec-98
Audio-Visual Equipment      0.05        NS       Nov-97    Jan-98    Mar-98    May-98
Medical Equipment &
Consumables
a. Hemodialysis             1.4        IS       Dec-96    Feb-97    Apr-97    Apr-99
b. Surgery                  1.1       LIB       Dec-96    Feb-97    Apr-97    Apr-99
c. Anesthesia              0.9        LIB       Dec-96    Feb-97    Apr-97    Apr-99
d. ICU                     0.5         IS       Jan-97    Mar-97    May-97    Apr-99
e. Diagnostic              0.3         IS       Jan-97    Mar-97   May-97    Apr-99
f. Clinical Lab            0.7         IS       Feb-97    Apr-97   June-97    Apr-99
g. Sterilization            1.2        IS       Feb-97    Apr-97   June-97    Apr-99
Scientific Books/Journals   0.12        DC        Feb-97              Mar-97    Dec-00
TOTAL                        7.9
1L/    PC, Fax and Photocopiers
2L     Autoclaves and Sterilizers



Appendix 4
Page 3 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Civil Works Procurement Packages
Est. Cost  Method    Prepare   Invitation  Award     Contract
US$MI/               Tenders              Contract   Completion
I. Clinical center
Sarajevo             3.0       NCB                  Dec-96    Mar-97    Aug-98
2. Clinical center
Tuzla                 1.4      NCB                  Dec-96    Mar-97    Aug-98
3. Clinical Center
Mostar               2.0       NCB                  Dec-96    Mar-97    Aug-98
4. State Hospital
Saravevo              0.6        NS                  Dec-96    Feb-97    Aug-98
5. Cantonal Hospital
Zenica                0.5        NS                 Dec-96    Mar-97    Aug-98
6. Cantonal Hospital
Livno                 0.5        NS                 Dec-98    Feb-99    Dec-99
7. Cantonal Hospital
Bihac                 0.5       NS                  Mar-97    Jun-97    Dec-98
8. Cantonal Hospital
Travnik               0.2        NS                 Mar-97    Jun-97    Dec-98
9. Cantonal Hospital
Jajce                 0.1        NS                 Feb-97    Apr-97    Dec-97
10. Cantonal Hospital
Orajce                0.2       NS                  Dec-97    Feb-98    Dec-99
I1. Cantonal Hospital
Gorazde               0.8        NS                 Feb-97    Apr-97    Dec-97
1/     Totals include 6% for design and supervision fee.



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                     |                     1997                      [                    1998                                            1999
Task Name                             Qtr 3       Qtr 4       Qtr         Qtr 2   |  Qtr 3        Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr 2   |  Qtr 3       Qtr 4       Qtr I   i  Qtr 2 |  Qtr 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORTR i
APPOINTMENT OF PIU STAFF
PROCURE EQUIPMENTIFURNITURE
SELECT TA
PFU STAFF TRAINING                                     _                                               _                                                  _
DEVELOP TRAINING PROGRAM
LOCAL TRAINING COURSE I1
LOCAL TFAINING COURSE
LOCAL TRAINING COURSE #2
LOCAL TRAINING COURSE #3
OVERSEAS TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING.                                                                              
ENGAGE IMG FOR CIVIL WORKS MG       __
DEVELOP TOR
MAKE CONTRACT WITH IMG
PREPARE TORP EVALUATION
AWARD CONTRACT
CIVIL WORKS REHABILITATION                     yi                                                         i
FINALIZE SITE SELECTION                   .|
DETERMINE FUNCTIONAL REQ.
PREPARE TECH SPECS                        -
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK
SEND BIDS                                     T                                                                                                       :
EVALUATE BIDS                           .-



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                                         1997                                          1998                                           1999
Task Name                            Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr 1       Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr 1       Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr 1       Qtr 2      __Qtr 3
AWARD CONTRACT
REHAB FIRST PHASE HOSPITALS
SUPERVISE REHAB WORKS
PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTORS
REHAB SECOND PHASE HOSPITALS
SUPERVISE REHAB WORK
PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT               _       _
FINALIZE EQUIPMENT LISTS
FINALIZE CONSUMABLES LIST
PREPARE TECH SPECS
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK
SEND BIDS
AWARD CONTRACT
CARRY OUT IS PROCEDURES
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK              '*1
DELIVERYANSTALLATION                                ,
UPGRADING CLINICAL SKILLS
ESTABLISH CMEs
PROCURE EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE                            _
CARRY OUT IS PROCEDURES                ,                                                      :
SET UP TECH LIBRARIES                                                                                                                                                                >
ESTABLISH CLINICAL SKILLS DEV GR           i                                                      . 
TRANIN PR OG
TRAINING  PROGRAM                          ,_            _ __  _ __  _  __ _  _-__     __ _  __  _ __  _ _-__     __  _ _ I _  __ _  _v__     __ _  __  _ __  _ __  _  _



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                                          1997                                           1998                                           1999
Task Name                             Qtr 3      Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Otr 2       Qtr 3      Qtrt4 Otri              Qtr 2tr 3              Qtr4         tr I      Qtr 2   |Qtr 3
SELECT TA                        
DEVELOP TRAINING PROGRAM
DELIVER ON-SITE TRAINING PRO            |
DELIVER ON-SITE TRAINING PRO            i
CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. W/SHOP
CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. W/SHOP             l                                                                              I
CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. W/SHOP             l
HEALTH FINANCE                                 _
SELECT TA
ESTABLISH STEERING COMMITTEE               Ii
DEVELOP STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM              j
PROCURE COMPUTER EQUIPMENT                  I
FINALIZE EQUIPMENT LISTS
DEVELOP TECH SPECS
SEND BIDS
EVALUATE BIDS
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK
AWARD CONTRACT
EQUIPMENT DELIVERYRNSTALL
STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM                               :
STUDY TOURS
SHORT TERM TRAINING, YR. I
SHORT TERM TRAINING. YR. 2                                                                                              -
SHORT TERM TRAINING, YR 3                                                                             ,_
_ _   i_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  IA   I



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                                          1997                                           1998                                           1999
Task Name                             Qtr3       Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr2        Qtr 3      Qtr 4       Qtr I       Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr 4       Otr I       Qtr2       Qtr3
ITSOFTWARETRAINING _1
IT SOFTWARE TRAINING #2                 i
IT SOFTWARE TIRAINING #3 
IT SOFTWARE TRAINING #4                 .
INSERVICE TRAINING
VIQ 
_, if
en A



Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Detailed Implementation Plan
Task                                 Suwmmary                              Rolled Up Progress                                        la
Project Bosnia: Essentlb Hospital S                                                                                                                                    a
Date: 10124/96                     Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Miestone                             Rolled Up Milestone                                                                            % FA



Appendix 6
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Monitoring
Monitoring is the process of assessing the extent to which activities meet or deviate from
expectations, for the purpose of enabling improvements and corrections during implementation.
Monitoring would be done by tracking inputs according to component, activity and expenditure
category, as outlined in the Input Table on page 2 of this appendix.
Project Evaluation
Evaluation is the process of assessing the extent to which stated objectives are achieved.
The Project objectives are to: (i) strengthen essential hospital services, focusing on the most
needy segments of the population; and (ii) establish and support the initial steps of health finance
reform. Because the Project by itself would not have immediate measurable impacts on
aggregate health status, indicators of aggregate health status would be inappropriate --
conceptually and in practice -- for evaluating the Project. Accordingly, the indicators on page 3
of this appendix would be used as proxy-indicators for project evaluation. They were selected on
the basis of relevance to the project objectives, sensitivity to planned activities, ease of data
collection and parsimony.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Monitoring and Evaluation: Input Table
Components/Activtes                                   Mar. 1007               Sop. 107                 Mar. 1990               Sep. 1908               Mar. 1999               Sep. 109.
Planned    Actual       Planned     Actual      Planned     Acual       Planned     Actual      Planned     Actual       Planned     Actual
1 Physical rehab. & reconstruction
CMiV Works
Equipment - Geneal Serices
2 Medical aquipment & suppies
Medical Diagnosic Equipment
Hemodialysis
Surgical
Anesthesia & ICU
Diagnostic endoscopy equipment
Ctnical laboratory equipment
Stailization, washing, drying
Vehicles
3 Upgrading of clinical skills & prctices
Training/Office Equipment
Books and joumals
Fumiture
Technical Assistance - Intemational
Technical Assistance - Local
Training
4 Health finance reform
Computer equipment
Technical Assistance/Training
5 ProJect Managoment and Coordination
Office Equipment
Technical Assistance
to 
X



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (The Federation)
Monitoring and Evaluation: Ouput Table
Functional outputs                                   Mar. 1997           Sep. 19971 _       Mar. 1998           Sep. 1998          (Mar. 19991         Sep. 1999.
Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual
1 Service delivery
1.1 Fully functional clinical service departments (X)
1.2  Fully functonal general service departments (X)
2 Health finance reform
2.1   Overall policy document
2.2  Inventories of sources of finance &
areas of expenditure.
2.3   Composition and costs of altemative forms of
a basic package of health services
2.4   Nationals of BH skilled in developing basic packages
of care.
2.5   Nationals of BH skilled in evidence-based health
service management.
w 'n
C -.



Appendix 7
Page 1 of 11
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
Assessment of global program needs
Introduction
The aim of the exercise was to carry out a rapid and sufficiently detailed appraisal of the status of
biomedical equipment installed in hospitals of medium and high complexity (2nd and 3d level health care
institutions) to identify the priorities for a medium term program for re-equipping these health institutions.
It was organized around the following main activities:
*  Identification of health institutions
*  Detailed survey of the status of some of these health institutions
*  Analysis of data and assessment of priorities for new biomedical instrumentation
*  Development of a medium-term program to re-equip the priority health care institutions
*  Quantification of costs for equipment, maintenance and consumables.
The present document was prepared on the basis of information collected in the health institutions
visited during the mission and of other official documents provided by the Ministry of Health's Working
Group of the Republika Srpska. It refers to the global Essential Hospital Services Program in RS, of which
the Essential Hospital Services Project in RS is a part.
Identification of health institutions
In cooperation with the MOH Working Group, nine hospitals and two institutes located in RS
were identified as priority second and third-level health institutions which would form the basis for RS's
future health care system. The health institutions identified were the following:
- Clinical Center - Banja Luka
- Institute of Public Health - Banja Luka
- General Hospital - Prijedor
- General Hospital - Gradiska
- General Hospital - Doboj
- General Hospital - Bijelina
- Hospitals of Pale/Kasindol/Sokolac
- General Hospital - Trebinje
- General Hospital - Brcko
- General Hospital - Zvornik
-  Institute of Physical Rehabilitation - Banja Luka
The first four institutions (Banja Luka Clinical Center, Institute of Public Health, Prijedor
Hospital, Gradiska Hospital) were visited, to carry out a detailed inventory --analysis of the status of
structures and existing equipment with the MOH Working Group.
Data collection
General information on the organization and activities of the above four institutions was obtained
during preliminary meetings with the Hospital Directors and through a questionnaire sent to the hospitals.
In addition, visits to the Departments of Radiology, Clinical Laboratory, Surgery, ICU, Obstetrics &
Gynecology and Hemodialysis of each hospital were carried out. The main goal of these visits was to set
up an inventory of the most important biomedical equipment installed in the above mentioned departments,
assessing the following characteristics for each piece of equipment:
- number and type of equipment;
- estimated age;



Appendix 7
Page 2 of 11
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
- level of usage;
-  status (good, medium, poor, very poor, damaged);
- maintenance (intemal technicians, manufacturer);
- estimated replacement cost of new equipment with similar or better functionality; and
- present source of consumables (donation, purchase, not available).
During the visits, data were collected for a detailed assessment of the status and consistency of
medical equipment installed in the health institutions. It is important to remember that the departments
visited hold the largest portion of the total value of medical equipment installed in general hospitals (75-
80%, according to data available from the scientific literature). Table I shows a general summary of the
replacement value of equipment in the three hospitals visited by the mission. Table 2 shows some basic
health factors (number of beds, population served, number of births per year) and some technology-related
indicators (equipment per bed, equipment per inhabitant) for these same three hospitals.
From the analysis of the data, it is possible to obtain some useful information for the assessment of
priorities and needs of health care structures in terms of technology. The average worth of equipment per
bed is around USS5,000, which is about 1/5 to 1/10 of the figure that we can find in Western European
countries. However, it should be noted that it is consistent with the pre-war per-capita GDP of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. This close relationship between per-capita GNP, per-capita health care expenditure, and per-
bed equipment has been demonstrated by a study (D. Bravar et al., IFMBE - CED) carried out at the
international level on industrialized and developing countries.
Assuming US$5,238 as the average ratio of equipment per bed in the country, the replacement
value of equipment in the remaining hospitals of RS has been estimated on the basis of the number of
active beds in each hospital. Table 3 shows the global estimate for the nine hospitals. According to the
replacement value of equipment, the yearly costs for maintenance, consumables and amortization
(assuming a 10-year life span of equipment) have been estimated. These figures are reported in Table 3.
A large portion of the equipment found in the hospitals (40%) is considered as obsolete, being
older than 15 years (X-ray equipment) or 10 years (other diagnostic and therapeutic equipment).
Approximately 1/3 of the remaining equipment, although not obsolete, is not functioning due to the total
lack of maintenance during the period of the war. This situation still persists, due to the total absence of
MOH resources for systematic maintenance and to the isolation of RS from the other countries of the
former Yugoslavia.
Determination of priorities for new biomedical equipment
On the basis of the data collected during the visits to the hospitals, a first estimate of needs was
prepared according to the following criteria:
- age and condition of existing biomedical equipment;
-  hospital size (no. of beds);
-  catchment area served by the hospital.
- pre-war, present and/or foreseen diagnostic and therapeutic activity; and
-  standardization of essential health services quality between hospitals.
In Appendix I ,Table 4, a program for the replacement of obsolete medical equipment is indicated
for each hospital. The program is intended as an investment plan to: (i) recover from a long period during
the war when no new equipment was purchased; (ii) assure, in the next 4-6 years, a reasonable level of
technology on which essential diagnostic and therapeutic services will be based. The aim of the plan is to
avoid an increase of the total technology installed in hospitals, which the limited financial resources of the



Appendix 7
Page 3 of 11
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
Goveniiiment could not sustain, and to replace only the obsolete equipment. According to the estimates
indicated above, 40% of existing equipment should be replaced, while the remaining 60% should be
maintained, with repair of 1/3 of the equipment currently out of use. Estimated costs for equipment
maintenance and for consumables for each of the priority hospitals and the Institute of Public Health are
reported in Table 4.
The availability of local technical resources to provide on-going equipment maintenance would
reduce substantially overall maintenance costs from the 9-10% normally charged in manufacturers' service
contracts to about 5% of the replacement cost of the equipment. To ensure that local technicians are
qualified to provide maintenance services, any provision of equipment will have to include technical
training courses, complete servicing technical documentation and an adequate quantity of the most
common spare parts. For the purposes of this report, the costs of consumables have been assessed both for
the new equipment supported by the program and for the already existing equipment. The criteria used to
evaluate the annual estimated expenditure for consumables associated with the equipment are based on the
following assumptions:
-  Radiology equipment: 20% of the replacement cost of equipment
-  Clinical Laboratory equipment: 95% of the replacement cost of equipment
-  Other equipment: 5% of the replacement cost of equipment
-  Hemodialysis equipment: US$30.000/year per dialysis unit
(US$60 per treatment x 2 patients/day x 250 days/year)
To calculate these percentages, data from national studies (Italian National Research Council -
1986, Italian Ministry of Health - 1994) and from international market analyses (Medical Markets in
Western Europe - MDIS Report - U.K. 1992) were used.
According to these assumptions and to the average distribution of medical equipment among the
different clinical sectors, a global yearly cost of consumables can be reasonably estimated at 25% of the
replacement value of the equipment. This average figure was used for the calculations in Table 4. In Table
5, the distribution of new equipment among the different clinical sectors is reported for each hospital. This
distribution reflects the present share of equipment value found in the hospitals visited:
Clinical sector                                               Value share
General Medicine (includes Obs. & Gyn.)                          25%
Hemodialysis                                                     10%
Surgery                                                          10%
Anesthesia, ICU                                                  10%
Diagnostic X-ray                                                 30%
Endoscopy                                                         5%
Clinical Laboratory                                              10%
100%



Appendix 7
Page 4 of 11
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
Global program costs
The global costs of the program have been estimated both: (i) for the new equipment only and (ii)
for the new equipment, plus the 60% of existing equipment to be retained. The items evaluated are the
following:
-  cost of new medical equipment
-  cost of consumables for a period of 3 years
-  cost of technical training and of spare parts (to be provided with the new equipment)
-  cost of shipping and installation (15% of purchase cost)
-  cost of procurement services and technical assistance (2.5% of purchase cost)
-  cost of maintenance for a period of 3 years (5% of purchase cost)
-  repair of existing equipment damaged during the war (1/3 of the usable 60%)
-  physical contingencies (5% of total)
Appendix 1, Table 6 gives the cost estimate, for a period of 3 years, for the new equipment that
should be included in the program. The global running cost to be sustained (consumables, maintenance,
amortization) is about US$3.7 million per year.
Appendix 1, Table 7 indicates a similar estimate, for a period of 3 years, relevant to the 60% of
already existing equipment plus the new equipment, assuming that all pieces of equipment presently not
working for lack of maintenance will be brought back into use. The global running cost to be sustained is
about US$9 million per year. Assuming that the per-capita health care expenditure in the RS will rise, by
the year 2000, to a level similar to that in he Federation of BH (US$75-95 per year), the global
expenditure for 1.5 million inhabitants should be in the range of US$110 to 140 million per year.
Consequently, the figure previously reported for global running costs (US$9 million per year) is still
compatible with the medium- to long-term national expenditure for health care, representing about 6 to 8%
of the global budget.
Conclusions and recommendations
In the short period of time available for the mission (one week), it was possible to collect data
sufficient only for a rough appraisal of needs in terms of equipment and associated consumables.
Nevertheless, during that period, it was possible to gain an overview of the current status of RS hospitals,
and to develop a reasonable plan for future medical equipment investments with the aim of providing, for
the next few years, the minimal tools necessary to ensure a reasonable level of health services quality to the
population. A fundamental step in the implementation of the program will have to involve a precise and
detailed assessment of equipment installed in all hospitals in order develop a final updated list of
equipment to be provided under the Program, according to the most urgent priorities. In the acquisition
process, particular attention should be paid to the following issues:
* careful coordination of other donors' actions, in order to prevent duplications
* provision, together with the equipment, of all technical support necessary for thorough training
of local technicians
* provision of an adequate quantity of the most common spare parts
* commitment of manufacturers to provide all spare parts for a period of 10 years, with clear
modalities for the definition of price lists and delivery time
* provision of full technical documentation
* uniformity of equipment (in terms of manufacturers and models) in order to rationalize the
maintenance activities
* identification of a procurement agent able to provide a full technical coordination, monitoring
the flow of equipment and materials, acting as a technical interface to the international



Appendix 7
Page 5 of 11
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Medical Equipment and Supplies Component
manufacturers and performing all actions necessary for the identification of requirements,
control, verification and technical acceptance of medical equipment provisions



Appendix 7
Page 6 of 11
BIOMEDICAL EQUIPMENT ALREADY EXISTING IN HOSPITALS
(replacement value, US$)
B.LUKA C.C.       PRIJEDOR        GRADISKA        totallsector
Radiology                  2,957,000         920,000         550,000        4,427,000
Laboratory                  454,000          511,000          77,000        1,042,000
Surgery                     465,000          490,000         610,000        1,565,000
ICU                         275,000          249,000          95,000         619,000
Obs.&Gyn.                   289,500           56,000         107,000          452,500
Hemodialysis                310,000          332,000         130,000          772,000
Other sectors              1,024,000         551,000         338,000        1,913,000
(estimate)
total/hosp.                5,774,500       3,109,000        1,907,000
TOTAL:                10,790,500
TABLE I
EXISTING MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY AND RELATED HEALTH FACTORS
B.LUKA C.C.      PRIJEDOR        GRADISKA          TOTAL
No. active beds          1,600            280              180            2,060
Population served       650,000         200,000          110,000         960,000
No. births per year      4,200           2,000            1,400           7,600
(expected)
Beds per 1.000            2.5             1.4              1.6             2.1
inhabitants
Equipmentperbed          3,609           11,104          10,594           5,238
(US$)_____________________________
Equipment per             8.9             15.5            17.3             11.2
inhabitant (US$)          8
TABLE 2



MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY RUNNING COSTS
(estimated according to the present situation)
No. of active  Installed   Maintenance cost Consumables cost Amortization costs
beds    equipment (US$)  (USS per year)   (US$ per year)   (US$ per year)
Banja Luka                           1,600       5,774,500         288,725        1,443,625          577,450
Prijedor                              280        3,109,000         155,450          777,250          310,900
Gradiska                              180        1,907,000          95,350          476,750          190,700
Doboj (see note 1)                    600        3,142,800         157,140          785,700          314,280
Bijeljina(see note 1)                 375        1,964,250          98,213          491,063          196,425
Pale/Kasindol/Sokolac (see note 1)    628        3,289,464         164,473          822,366          328,946
Trebinje (see note 1)                 200        1,047,600          52,380          261,900          104,760
Brcko (see note 1)                    150          785,700          39,285          196,425           78,570
Zvomik (see note 1)                   200        1,047,600          52,380          261,900          104,760
TOTAL:        4,213      22,067,914        1,103,396       5,516,979        2,206,791
Total running costs:    8,827,166
NOTES:
1) Installed equipment: figures refer to the replacement value and are estimated according to the number of active beds
2) Maintenance costs: calculated as 5% of equipment value
3) consumables costs: calculated as 25% of equipment value
4) Amortization costs: calculated as 10% of equipment value
TABLE 3
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0



PROGRAM OF REPLACEMENT OF OBSOLETE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
No. of active  Existing      Non-obsolete   New equipment to
beds       equipment       equipment       be provided    Maintenance cost Consumables cost
(US$)          (US$)            (US$)        (US$ per year)   (US$ per year)
Banja Luka                           1,600       5,774,500        3,464,700       2,309,800          288,725        1,443,625
Prijedor                              280        3,109,000        1,865,400       1,243,600          155,450         777,250
Gradiska                              180        1,907,000        1,144,200         762,800           95,350         476,750
Doboj                                 600        3,142,800        1,885,680       1,257,120          157,140         785,700
Bijeljina                             375        1,964,250        1,178,550         785,700           98,213         491,063
Pale/Kasindol/Sokolac                 628        3,289,464        1,973,678       1,315,786          164,473         822,366
Trebinje                              200         1,047,600        628,560          419,040           52,380         261,900
Brcko                                 150          785,700         471,420          314,280           39,285         196,425
Zvornik                               200         1,047,600        628,560          419,040           52,380         261,900
Inst. Public Health                    -           125,000          75,000          500,000           28,750         143,750
TOTAL:        4,213      22,067,914       13,315,748       9,327,166         1,132,146       5,660,729
Total maintenance & consumables costs:   6,792,874
NOTES:
1) Non-obsolete equipment represents about 60% of existing devices
2) New equipment will replace the obsolete equipment (40% of existing devices)
TABLE 4
sQ,~
o c.
_ 



DISTRIBUTION OF NEW EQUIPMENT AMONG CLINICAL SECTORS (US$)
TOTAL   General medicine,  Hemodialysis      Surgery     Anesthesia, ICU   Diagnostic X-ray    Endoscopy    Clinical laboratory
Obs & Gyn.
Banja Luka                      2,309,800        577,450         230,980         230,980          230,980         692,940         115,490         230,980
Prijedor                        1,243,600        310,900         124,360          124,360         124,360         373,080          62,180         124,360
Gradiska                          762,800         190,700         76,280          76,280           76,280         228,840          38,140          76,280
Doboj                           1,257,120        314,280         125,712          125,712         125,712         377,136          62,856         125,712
Bijeljina                         785,700         196,425         78,570          78,570           78,570         235,710          39,285          78,570
Pale/Kasindol/Sokolac           1,315,786        328,946         131,579          131,579         131,579         394,736          65,789         131,579
Trebinje                          419,040         104,760         41,904          41,904           41,904         125,712          20,952          41,904
Brcko                             314,280         78,570          31,428          31,428           31,428          94,284          15,714          31.428
Zvomik                            419,040         104,760         41,904           41,904          41,904         125,712          20,952          41,904
Inst. Public Health               500,000                                                                         225,000                         275,000
TOTAL                           9,327,166       2,206,791        882,717          882,717         882,717        2,873,150        441,358        1,157,717
TABLE 5
cc>
_ X6
_



GLOBAL PROGRAM COSTS: MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND CONSUMABLES
(relevant to new equipment to be supplied, US$)
Hospitals    Inst. Pub. Health    Subtotal
a. Medical equipment                                      8,827,166           500,000        9,327,166
b. Consumables (3 years)                                  6,620,375           375,000        6,995,375
c. Technical training and spare parts (10% of a.)           882,717            50,000          932,717
d. Shipping and installation (15% of a.)                   1,324,075           75,000        1,399,075
e. Procurement and technical assist. (2.5% of a.+b.)        386,189            21,875          408,064
f. Maintenance (5% of a. x 3 years)                        1,324,075           75,000        1,399,075
g. Contingencies (5% of total costs)                        968,230            54,844        1,023,074
Subtotal:    20,332,825         1,151,719
TOTAL:        21,484,644
TABLE 6
>
o c.
-I-
--4



GLOBAL PROGRAM COSTS: MEDICAL EQUIPMENT, MAINTENANCE AND CONSUMABLES
(relevant to new and 60% of existing equipment, US$)
Hospitals    Inst. Pub. Health    Subtotal
a. Medical equipment                                       8,827,166          500,000        9,327,166
b. Consumables (3 years)                                  16,550,937          431,250       16,982,187
c. Technical training and spare parts (10% of a.)           882,717            50,000          932,717
d. Shipping and installation (15% of a.)                   1,324,075           75,000        1,399,075
e. Procurement and technical assist. (2.5% of a.+b.)        634,453            23,281          657,734
f. Repair of existing equipment damaged during war          396,972             2,500          399,472
g. Maintenance of all equipment (3 years)                  3,137,688           86,250        3,223,938
h. Contingencies (5% of total)                             1,587,700           58,414        1,646,114
Subtotal:    33,341,708         1,226,695
TOTAL:        34,568,403
TABLE 7
>
_ n.
- x-



Essential mospitel Services
Table 1. Structural Rehabilitation
Detailed Coste
(US$ '0001
Totals Including
Quantities          Unit         Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  Total Cost  1997  1996  1999  Total
X. Investment Costs
A. Xnstitute of Public Fetlth
1. Rehab of Damaged StructurEs /a luepsuM                                        169.7 Z75.9 174.4 620.0
S. Design and Supervision /b              luapsum                                     36.4      _      _  36.4
Total                                                                                      206.1 275.9 174.4 656.4
\a Dmage due to lack of maintenance.
\b 61 of investment costs.
o   g0



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services
Table 2. Medical Equipment
pet.iled Costs
(USS '000)
Quantities          Unit  Totals Includina Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    Total
1. Inv .tso.t Costs
A. Medical Equipment
1. Repair of Existing Equipment /a                             lumpsuo                                       208.4   213.2         -   421.5
2. Supplies and Consumables /b                                 lumpsunt                                   3,538.1         -        - 3,538.1
Subtotal Medical tquipent                                                                                     3,746.5   213.2          - 3,959.6
B. Local Technical Asistance
1. Steering Committee in Essential Hospital Services /c   m/m                5     5      5    15       2    10.4    10.7    10.9    32.0
2. Procurement Services Id                                     lumpasu                                        89.5                     _ _885
Subtotal Local Technical Assistance                                                                              98.9    10.7    10.9   120.4
Total Investment Costs                                                                                            3,845.3   223.9    10.9 4,080.1
II. Recurent Castw
A. Equipment O0H i                                               lu.paum                                       693.9   709.8   726.2 2,129.9
Total Pre -rrent Cost.                                                                                              693.9   709.8   726.2 2,129.9
Total                                                                                                              4,539.2   933.6   737.1 6,209.9
Xa Baaed on 601 of existing equipment being retained.
\b for existing equipment for first year only
\c 10 experts working on part-tine basis for 10 days/yr.
\d profes3ional fee for procurement of medical equipment and priority conautsables (hemodialysis, X-ray, clinical lab). Professional fee = 2.50.
\e 5 percent of value of existing non-obsolete equipment (604 of stock).
(Q 
67o^
0 C
O .-
t XO



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services
Table 3. Upgrading Clinical Skills
Detailed Costo
(US$ '000)
Totals Including
Quantities           Unit         Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  Total Cost  1997  1998  1999  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment and Materials
1. Training/Office Equipment
IT Equipment for Clinical Centers /a                          set         -      1      -      I    18       -  19.2        -  19.2
PC and Printers for Hospitalsllnstitutes /b                   set         -      9      -      9   2.5        -  24.0       -  24.0
Photocopiers for Clinical Centers                            piece        -      2      -      2   2.5        -   5.3       -   5.3
Audio-visual Equipment for Clinical Centers /c                set         -      2      -       2      5      -  10.7       -  10.7
Audio-Visual Equipment for Hospitals/1nstitutes /d    set                 -      9      -       9  3.25       -  31.2       -  31.2
Sibtotal Training/Office Equipment                                                                               -  90.3       -  90.3
2. Learning Resources
Books and journals for Clinical Centers                     lumpsum                                        7.5  19.2  11.8  38.5
Books and Journals for Hospitals                            luapsum                                        8 3  21 3  13 1  42 7
Subtotal Learning Resources                                                                                   15.8  40.5  24.9  81.2
Subtotal Equipment  nd Haterials                                                                                 15.8 130.8  24.9 171.5
D. Furniture
1. Furniture for Seminar Rms. - Clinical Centers /I    lumpsum                                                15.6  63.9       -  79.6
2. for Seminar Rooms in Hospitals                               luapsum                                        8.3  34.1       -  42.4
Subtotal Furniture                                                                                               24.0  98.1        - 122.0
C. Technical Assistanee
1. International /f                                               n/m         I      I      -      2    15  15.9  16.3         -  32.2
2. Clinical Skills Development Group /9                           */-         5      5      5    IS       2  10.4  10.7  10.9  32.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                    26.3  27.0  10.9  64.2
D. Training /h
1. Local Training
Clinical Skills Development Workshop /i                     lumpsum                                       95.8 196.1 200.6 492.6
Total Investment Coots                                                                                               162.0 451.9 236.4 850.3
IX. Aeurre.t Costs
A. Equipment Maintenance /j                                        luepsum                                      _0. .8   7LA  .-!- _ 8   69
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                  0.0   7.      d 8.8  16.9
Total                                                                                                                 1628 459 .3 245 1 867.2
\a LAN server, 10 terminals and 3 printers. Ito be confirmed with Suwat1.
\b for the 7 priority hospitals and 2 institutes.
\c including overhead projector, 3lide projector, video camera and VHS, whiteboard.
\d for 7 priority hospitals and 2 institutes.
\e furniture for hospital seminar rooms.
\f Development of training modules and training of trainers.
\9 5 experts working on part-tim   basis  120 days/yr. ).
\h Cost of trainers and training materials are included. Training program will be detailed by the clinical skills development group.
\i 4 workshops par year for 5 days fro 20 staff from each hospital.
\j at 5S of investment cost.
C7 
C)
o P.
#4



Republika Srpska
Essentiel Hospital Services
Table 4. Health Financing Reform
Detailed Costa
(USS '000)
Quantities         Unit  Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1991  1998  1999  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    Total
. Inveetaent Costs
A. Office Rehabilitation
1. RS HIF Office /a                                 lupsum                                      1623        _       -   162.3
2. BrOanch HIF Offices /b                           branch      10      -     -    10    SO   541.2          -            541.2
Subtotal Office Rhbbilitation                                                                      103.5                     7 03.5
S. Equipent
1. Seential Cewuter Equipmet
PCs ftor Central *nd Branch Offices               piece       -    66      -    66   2.5         -   175.9        -   115.9
tUcainals tot Central and Branch HIF$             piece       -    89      -    09   0.6         -    56.9        -    56.9
HW/SW to upgrade processors                      lumpsum                                         -   175.9        _   175.9
Batteries end stabilizer                         lumpum                                          _    17l         _      7.
Subtatal  eceattal Computer  nquiet                                                                 -   425.7        -   425.7
2. Crmputezr 3,t.m    foe Pilot Areas
LAMB Client/Sarvec /c                            system       -     9      -     9    60             575.5        -   575.5
Software Applications                             mpasuM                                             159.9        -   159.9
Subtotal Cpuater Sstes foc Pilot Areas                                                                  735.4             1 735.4
3. Oter Eyaiet
Central H1F Office                               Iupsu.                                          -     4.6        -      6.6
Branch NF Offices                                branch       -                  a -  S   4.S    -    39.S        -    3S.4
Subtotal Othet Eyai9maat                                                                            -    43.2              43.2
#utotal Eyaipent                                                                                       - 120t.3          - 1,204.3
C. tech. Avelstaneetrainiag
1. Health Finance Coordinator                                 1.75      1     1  3.75    15    27.3    16.0    16.4    59.1
2. trnditure Aurey
Technical Assistance                               -       0.75     -      -  0.75    IS    11.7         -        -    11.7
Date Collection                                    Is                                          0.6                      10.'
"total R upeadture *iYy                                                                          22.5        -       -    22.5
3. Inereace Systms
Technical Assistonce                               _     3.125 1.675 13.75 6.075    IS    48.9    30.0    30.7   109.5
Study tours                                        Is                                        51.6         -       -    51.6
Oversees Training                                  1s                                          6.5     6.6        _    13.1
In-Service Training                                Is                                        34.7    11.9         -    46.6
Sutotl In earuae   ete.                                                                         1l41.6    49.4    30.7   220. 
4. Badic health Paokage
Technical Assistance                               _       1.25 0.375 0.375       2    15    19.5      6.0      6.1    31.7
Overseas Training                                  Is                                            -     6.6      6.6    13.4
In-Service Training                                Is                                        23.2    11.9         -    35.0
A>totsl saic Health Paceks                                                                       42.7    24.5    12.9    80.1
S. mm4 Plaming unit
Technical Assistance                               _        2.5  0.75  0.75      t    IS    39.1    12.0    22.3    63.3
Overseas Training                                  1s                                            -     6.6      6.9    13.4
Shbtottl MMQ Plannng Urit                                                                        39.1    18.6    19.0    16.7
6. Steering committee                                 Is                                          5.4      5.5     3.6    16.5
sutotal tech. Asistanae/Training                                                                   278.6   113.0    04.6   476.1
Total Investmet Costs                                                                                   962.1 1,311.2    64.6 2,383.9
S1. Beurrent Cotat
A. Equipment Haintenance                               lumpaum                                         -    60.2    61.6   121.8
D. IT Systems Canumbl-e.
1. IT Supplies and Consumabl*s - Central HlIA    per/mo.    12    12    12    36           2    25.0    25.6    26.2    76.9
2. IT supplies and consumablR s - branch HIF. /d per/mo.    12    12    12    36    10   125.0   127.9   130.6   363.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                   150.0   213.7   216.6   582.3
Total                                                                                                 1,132.1 1,530.9   303.2 2 966.2                                                         0
\a Assume rehabilitation of 300 sq.m. office spce   and U5S500/aq.n.  In As, HlP is referred to as Public Yund for Health.
\b assume 100 sq.-. ottice spac*/branch office, and U5$500/sq.m.



Table 5. Project Management
Detailed Co-te
(US$ '000)
Totals Including
Quantities          Unit         Contingencies
Unit   1991  1990  1999  Total Cost  1991  1998  1999  Total
I.  nvetment Coate
A. Office Equipent
1. PC, fax, Modem and printer  piece           4      -      -      4   4.5  10.8       -      -  18.8
2. Photocopier                     piece       I      _             1      3   3.1      -      -   3.1
Subtotal Offiae Equipent                                                         21.9       -      -  21.9
D. Technial As.i.tawe
1. Netienal Consultants
Project Director                M/I        12    12    12    36   2.5  31.3  32.0  32.7  95.9
Architect                       r/r        12    12       6    30      2  25.0  25.6  13.1  63.1
Procurement specialist          rn/        12    12    12    36        2  25.0  25.6  26.2  76.8
Accountant                      MIN        12    12    12    36   1.5  18.8  19.2  19.6  57.6
Support staff                   e/m        24    24    24    12        1  25.0  25.6  26.2  76.8
ubtotal Nlational Consultants                                               125.0 127.9 117.8 370.7
C. PDU Staff Training
1. Overseas Training /a             I/N        2      2      2      6   7.5  15.6  16.0  16.t  48.0
2. Local Training /b               days      225      -      -   225   0.1  23.4        -      -  23.4
9ubtotal PDU Staff Training                                                      39.1  16.0  16.4  71.4
Total Investment Cost.                                                               186.0 143.9 134.1 164.0
II. Recurrent Coate
A. Operations costs                  per/so.    12    12    12    36          3  31.5  38.4  39.3 115.1
8. Office Materials and Supplies pet/mo.    12    12    12    36              5  62.5  63.9  65.t 191.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                100.0 102.3 104.7 307.0
Total                                                                                 286.0 246.2 238.8 771.0
\a Study tours for 6 perons for 10 days/year.
\b 3 workshops for 15 persons for 5 days on project implmentation issues.
t   00
5-l Project Management



Appendix 9
Page I of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Technical Assistance and Training Packages
Est. Cost  Method    Prepare   Invitation  Award      Contract
USSM                 Tenders               Contract   Completion
TA for MOH              0.03        DC       Dec-96                           Dec-99
Steering Committee
Procurement             0.21        SL       Oct-96    Dec-96    Jan-97       Dec-98
Services
Clinical Skills         0.56        SL       Jan-97     Mar-97    May-97    Dec-99
Training TA
and
Training
Workshops
Healh Finance TA         1.1        SL       Jan-97     Mar-97    May-97    Dec-99
and
Training
PCU TA                   0.4        SL       Nov-96    Dec-96    Dec-96    Dec-99
PCU Staff               0.07        SL       Jan-97     Mar-97    Apr-97    Dec-98
Training



Appendix 9
Page 2 of 3
Bosnia and Hergovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Equipment and Supplies Procurement Packages
Est. Cost Procurement Prepare              Award   Contract
WS$      Method   Tendering Invitation  Contract Completion
Million)
Computer Equipment
a. Health Finance                     1.2        IS       Jul-97    Aug-97   Sep-97    Jan-98
b. Clinical Skills                   0.04        IS       Nov-97   Jan-98    Mar-98    Dec-98
c. PCU Computers                     0.02        IS       Dec-96    Jan-97    Feb-97    Feb-97
Other Equipment
a. Photocopiers                      0.01       NS        Jan-97
b. HIF Offices                       0.05        IS       Jan-98    Mar-98   May-98    Jul-98
Audio Visual Equipment                 0.04        IS      Nov-97   Jan-98    Mar-98   May-98
Furniture                              0.12       IS       Mar-97   May-97    Jul-97    Dec-98
Medical Equipment
a. Repairs                           0.21       DC        Jan-97                        Dec-98
0.21       NS       Jan-97                         Dec-98
b. Consumables                        3.5       LIB       Jan-97    Mar-97   Jun-97    Dec-97
Scientific Books/Journals              0.1        DC       Feb-97                         Dec-99



Appendix 9
Page 3 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Civil Works Procurement Packages
Est. Cost Method   Prepare  Invitation  Award   Contract
US$M              Tenders             Contract  Completion
National Institute     0.66      NS      Jan-97   Mar-97    May-97    Nov-98
of Technology
RS HIF                 0.16      NS      Jan-97   Mar-97    May-97    Nov-97
Headquarters
RS HIF Branch          0.54      NS      Apr-97   Jun-97    Aug-97    Nov-98
Offices (Ten)



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                                          1997                                        1998                                           1999
Task Name                            Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr 1       Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr4         tr I      Qtr 2      Qtr 3 |  Qtr 4         Qtr         otr 2      Qtr 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT          _
APPOINTMENT OF PIU STAFF
PROCURE EQUIPMENT/FURNITUPE" 
SELECT TA| 
PIU STAFF TRAINING
DEVELOP TRAINING PROGRAM
LOCAL TRAINING COURSE #1                        ;
LOCAL TRAINING COURSE #2                        .
LOCAL TRAINING COURSE #3                                                                        I
OVERSEAS TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING
ENGAGE IMG FOR CIVIL WORKS MG
DEVELOP TOR
MAKE CONTRACT WITH IMG
PREPARE TOR EVALUATION
AWARD CONTRACT
CIVIL WORKS REHABILITATION                      i                                             _
FINALIZE SITE SELECTION
DETERMINE FUNCTIONAL REQ.
PREPARE TECH SPECS
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK                        
SEND BIDS                                                                                                                                                                             to  t
EVALUATE BIDS



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                                           1997                      J                     1998                                           1999
Task Name                             Qtr 3       Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr 2       Qtr 3       Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr2        Qtr3        Qtr 4       Qtr 1      Qtr2        Qtr 3
AWARD CONTRACT
REHAB FIRST PHASE HOSPITALS                                                    -
SUPERVISE REHAB WORKS                                                          -
PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTORS                                                        -
REHAB SECOND PhASE HOSPITALS                                                                                                   -
SUPERVISE REHAB WORK                                                                                                           -
PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT           _
FINALIZE EQUIPMENT LISTS                     |
FINALIZE CONSUMtABLES UST                 3 |
PREPARE TECH SPECS
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK
SEND BIDS
AWARD CONTRACT
CARRY OUT IS PROCEDURES
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK                       I
DELIVERYANSTALLATION
UPGRADING CLINICAL SKILLS                                ___
ESTABLISH CMEs
PROCURE EQUIPMENTIFURNITURE                              _
CARRY OUT IS PROCEDURES
SET UP TECH. LIBRARIES |
ESTABLISH CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. GR                                                                     ..                                                                                        X
TRAINING PROGRAM                  _                                                                                                                                           _: _



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                                         1997                                          1998                                           1999
Task Name                            Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr 1       Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Otr I      Qtr 2       Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr 1       Qtr2       Qtr3
SELECT TA
DEVELOP TRAINING PROGRAM
DELIVER ON-SITE TRAINING PRG
DELIVER ON.SITE TRAINING PRO
CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. W/SHOP
CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. W/SHOP                     .
CLINICAL SKILLS DEV. W/SHOP
HEALTH FINANCE
SELECT TA
ESTABLISH STEERING COMMITTEE
DEVELOP STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
PROCURE COMPUTER EQUIrMENT
FINALIZE EQUIPMENT LISTS
DEVELOP TECH SPECS
SEND BIDS
EVALUATE BIDS
NO OBJECTION FROM BANK
AWARO CONTRACT
EQUIPMENT DELIVERY/INSTALL
STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM                              .                                               _
STUDY TOURS
SHORT TERM TRAINING. YR. I                                                                                                                                                           >
SHORT TERM TRAINING, YR. 2                      .                                               
SHORT TERM TRAINING, YR. 3
_ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                          -   __ 



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Detailed Implementation Plan
96                     |                    1997                      1                    1998                                           1999
Task Name                             Qtr 3      Qtr 4       Qtr         Otr 2       Qtr 3      Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr2       Qtr3
IT SOFTWARE TRAINING                             . 1                            I
IT SOFTWARE TRAINING n2                                                                         I
IT SOFTWARE TRAINING #3                          .
IT SOFTWARE TRAINING 4
INSERVICE TRAINING
UO



Republika Srpska
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Detailed Implementation Plan
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress                                            la 
Project: Bosnia: Essential Hospital S                                                                                                                                                  a
Date: 10/24196                        Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                  uAo



Appendix 11
Page 1 of 3
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Monitoring
Monitoring is the process of assessing the extent to which activities meet or deviate from
expectations, for the purpose of enabling improvements and corrections during implementation.
Monitoring would be done by tracking inputs according to component, activity and expenditure
category, as outlined in the Input Table on page 2 of this appendix.
Project Evaluation
Evaluation is the process of assessing the extent to which stated objectives are achieved.
The Project objectives are to: (i) strengthen essential hospital services, focusing on the most
needy segments of the population; and (ii) establish and support the initial steps of health finance
reform. Because the Project by itself would not have immediate measurable impacts on
aggregate health status, indicators of aggregate health status would be inappropriate --
conceptually and in practice -- for evaluating the Project. Accordingly, the indicators on page 3
of this appendix would be used as proxy-indicators for project evaluation. They were selected on
the basis of relevance to the project objectives, sensitivity to planned activities, ease of data
collection and parsimony.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Monitoring and Evaluation: Input Table
Components/ Activites                                   Mar. 1997                 Sep. 1997                Mar. 1998                Sep. 1998                Mar. 1999                Sep. 1999.
Planned     Actual       Planned     Actual       Planned     Actual       Planned     Actual       Planned      Actual      Planned      Actual
1 Physical rehab & reconstructon
Civil Works
Equipment- General Services
2 Medical equipment & supplies
Medical Diagnostic Equipment
Hemodialysls
Surgical
Anesthesia & ICU
Diagnostic endoscopy equiprnent
Clinical labtory equipment
Sterilization, washing, drying
Vehicles
3 Upgrading of clinical skills & practics
Tralning/Olkce Equipment
Books and joumals
Fumiture
Technkal Assistance - Intemational
Technical Assistance - Local
Training
4 Health finance reformn
Computer equipment
Technical AssistancefTraining
5 Project Management and Coordination
Office Equipment
Technical Assistance
CD 
_4C



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project (Republika Srpska)
Monitoring and Evaluation: Ouput Table
Functional outputs                                   Mar. 1997          |Sep. 1997_         Mar. 1998           Sep. 1998           Mar. 1999          Sep. 1999.
Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual
I Service delivery
1.1 Fully functional clinical service departments (#)
1.2  Fully functional general service departments (#)
2 Health finance reformn
2.1   Overall policy document
2.2  Inventories of sources of finance &
areas of expenditure.
2.3   Composition and costs of altemative forms of
a basic package of heaflth services
2.4   Nationals of BH skilled in developing basic packages
of care.
2.5 Nationals of BH skilled in evidence-based heaflth
service management.
go



Appendix 12
Page I of 5
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project
Terms of Reference for Consultants
for
Health Finance Reform
(Draft of September 25, 1996)
1.    BACKGROUND
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) is undertaking the initial stages
of reforming the country's health finance system. The reform is a part of the overall post-
war health sector development, and is being supported through the Health Finance
Reform Component of the Essential Hospital Services Project, financed in part by a
Credit from the International Development Association (IDA). The Health Finance
Reform Component of the Project is designed to assist the Government of BH, and more
specifically the Ministry of Health of each entity (the Federation of BH and the Republika
Srpska), in the initial stages of health finance reform.
2.    OBJECTIVES
2.1.  The broad objective of the Technical Assistance (TA) to be provided by the
consultants is to support the development of credible and effective process, delivering
specific interim products, in pursuit of: (a) an overall design for a coherent health
financing system that would achieve universal access, cost-containment, quality,
sustainability, effectiveness and efficiency objectives, and (b) the portability of access to
health care between the entities, within the provisions of the constitution of BH.
2.2.  More specifically, the objectives of the TA are:
2.2.1. To support the definition of the essential responsibilities of the Federation and the
Republika Srpska (RS) in financing a reformed health system, including but not limited
to the establishment, within constitutional provisions, of a common approach to issues of
access and service delivery, as well as the sets of arrangements for governance, financing
and administering the health sector on a sustainable basis.
2.2.2. To support the definition of options for assuring that all citizens in each entity
acquire and retain effective access to a minimum package of basic health care services.
2.2.3. To support the identification of a pragmatic, phased and sequenced series of
changes for transforming the current health financing regime in each entity into those
envisaged for the future, including viable options for promoting convergence toward a
common arrangement within constitutional provisions.



Appendix 12
Page 2 of 5
3.    SUMMARY OF REQUIREMENTS
3.1.  Consultants are required to assist the Ministry of Health and appropriate
institutions in each entity to: (a) identify specific options, and the implications of those
options, for introducing a sustainable, efficient, effective and equitable health finance
regime; (b) conduct defined studies of limited scope in support of the decision making
process in each entity; and (c) develop the capacity of nationals of BH to manage the
health sector reform process successfully.
3.2.  Assistance is required for a relatively intense start-up phase including policy
analysis, relevant surveys of limited scope and training during the first year, followed by
on-going support for the initial stage of implementation during the second and third years
of the Project.
3.3.  Ultimately, policy decisions and strategic choices will be made by the people and
constituted authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The technical assistance is explicitly
intended to help the nationals and constituted authorities to bring objective criteria and
transparent processes to bear upon the decisions and choices.
4.    DETAILED SCOPE OF WORK
4.1.  Definition of the essential responsibilities of each entity.
4.1. .1. In the Federation, the TA would assist the Federation MOH to specify in more
detail the instruments and processes for reintegrating the health finance system, as stated
by the Government of BH in the Letter of Development Policy dated May 15, 1996
(Transition Assistance Credit, Report and Recommendation of the President of the
International Development Association, Number P-691 1-BIH, August 14, 1996).
4.1.2. In the Republika Srpska, the TA would assist the MOH to specify in more detail
the instruments and processes for achieving the broad objectives stated in the "Strategy
for Health Development for Republika Srpska by the Year 2000".
4.1.3. The TA would support the exploration and documentation of feasible options for
common, or at least compatible, approaches in the two entities, and would facilitate
communications according to a schedule to be deternined jointly by the MOH of both
entities, but in any case at least monthly.
4.1.4. The TA would include but not be limited to the definition of the appropriate
responsibilities and authorities of each MOH, each health insurance fund, cantonal and
municipal authorities for policy formulation, financial forecasting, business planning,
human resource planning, and related forms of regulatory activity (inicuding regulation of
private insurance).



Appendix 12
Page 3 of 5
4.1.5. Sustainability requires that revenues be sufficient to cover costs in each time
period, for the system as a whole and for each component of the system that is expected
to be financially sustainable and in financial balance. Analyzing sustainability therefore
requires that both resources (and their sources) and costs (and their determinants) be
carefully examined. Assessment of the health system's financial sustainability should
therefore take into account such factors as revenue bases, efficiency of revenue collection,
incentives for providers and consumers to use resources efficiently, linking of decisions
on investments in medical equipment and technology to the affordability of their
recurrent costs, cost-containment strategies, scale of risk pooling, and exploitation of
economies of scale in health delivery and public health systems, revenue collection,
information systems, health insurance and provider payment systems, and evaluation
systems.
4.1.6. Sustainability analysis should take into account the sensitivity of projections to
assumptions made about the future rates and patterns of economic growth within each
entity. The results of the sustainability analyses should include the identification of
alternative ways of structuring the health sector with the potential to be financially
sustainable.
4.2.  Assuring Universal Access to Basic Care
4.2.1. The TA will support the identification of options and the implications of those
options for: (a) assuring that all people in the Federation and RS acquire and retain access
to a minimum package of basic health services and (b) the revenue base that would
support this mechanism in the medium term.
4.2.2. Technical work is required in the following areas: (a) identification and costing of
options; (b) setting transparent administrative procedures for implementation; (c)
identifying priority interventions; (d) indexing for inflation; (e) information needs --
demographic, epidemiologic, service delivery and financial (tax base and health
expenditures) and (f) systems for monitoring whether adequate access is in fact
universally available.
4.2.3. Transfer of skills to nationals of BH would be crucial to facilitate future iterations
of this exercise, as the working of the scheme will change as the economy recovers.
4.3.   Phases of implementation during the transition
4.3.1. The TA will support the identification of phased and sequenced series of
coordinated changes to transform the current health financing and delivery systems into
those envisaged for the future. The developmental tasks to be accomplished during the
transitional period should include the following:
(i) design of new hospital payment mechanisms and of a strategy for achieving a
slimmer, more cost-effective hospital sector;



Appendix 12
Page 4 of 5
(ii) preliminary design of a restructured primary health care system and of new
mechanisms for financing primary care, including the financing links between
primary care, outpatient specialist care, and inpatient hospital care;
(iii) design of a new and consistent system for monitoring indicators of access to care,
quality of health care processes, health status, and health outcomes for each local
geographic area;
(iv)design of coordinated information and management systems for hospitals, primary
care providers, and insurance institutions that in turn would provide a data base
for each MOH's functions of research, planning, evaluation, and preparation of
inputs to national health expenditure accounts;
(v) design of future policies and procedures by which each MOH would regulate
cantonal/municipal health systems, including any processes for constraining total
health spending within each entity;
(vi)defining the basic package of care in terms of either covered health services or
threshold levels of average expenditure per person and developing new
administrative and financing mechanisms to ensure that low-income
cantons/rr.unicipalities can provide universal access to this package of care;
(vii) design of management systems, operating systems, and associated computer
hardware and software requirements for new insurance arrangements;
(viii) design of administrative systems that minimize costs by taking maximum
advantage of economies of scale; and
(ix)design of systems to address cross-cantonal and inter-entity issues such as
referrals and portability of access to health services.
5.    DELIVERABLES.
The following are key deliverables associated with the TA:
5.1.  A documented policy, to be prepared by the Working Group of nationals of each
entity, identifying the conceptual, policy and institutional framework for financing the
health care system, and defining, within existing constitutional provisions, feasible
approaches to promoting consistency of systems between the two entities. The document
from each entity should include but not be limited to common themes specified in this
paragraph.
Approximate due date: Six months from signing of contract. (July, 1997).



Appendix 12
Page 5 of 5
5.2  Inventories of sources of finance and the areas of expenditure for each entity.
Approximate due date: Six months from signing of contract (July, 1997).
5.3.  Composition and costs of alternative forms of a basic package of health services.
Approximate due date: Nine months from signing of contract (October, 1997).
5.4.  At least two nationals of BH in each entity, skilled in specifying and costing
alternative forms of a basic health package.
Approximate due date: Eleven months from signing of contract (December, 1997)
5.5.  At least two nationals of BH in each entity, with demonstrable knowledge of
evidence-based health service management, contract setting/monitoring and provider
payment alternatives.
Approximate due date: Eighteen months from signing of contract (July 1998).
6.    REPORTING AND COMMUNICATIONS.
The consultants(s) responsible for specific aspects of the TA shall work with and
in support of the Ministry of Health of each entity -- specifically, the Working Groups
established by each the MOH of each entity and the Essential Hospital Services Project
Implementation Unit in each entity. They shall liaise, as necessitated by the stated
objectives of the assignment, with other appropriate ministries of each entity and the
State Ministry of Finance, the Sectoral Task Force on Health, donor and technical
agencies, municipal and cantonal authorities, universities. All reports shall be submitted
in hard copy and on disk to the Director of the Project Implementation Unit in each
entity.
7.    QUALIFICATIONS
The consultant(s) shall have: (a) demonstrated competence in supporting health
sector reforms, preferably in the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe; (b)
a track record of effectiveness in delivering specified products on schedule; (c) fluency in
English language; (d) familiarity with alternative health finance models; and (e) advanced
training in the core disciplines of health economics/financing, health planning and
epidemiology. Strong skills in oral and written communications and adaptability to
rapidly changing contexts are crucial.



Appendix 13
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Essential Hospital Services Project
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to receive a credit from the
Interim Trust Fund (ITF), administered by the International Development Association (IDA),
the proceeds of which would be used for a proposed Essential Hospital Services Project. The
Government is also expected to receive loans and grants from other multilateral and bilateral
sources.
The loans and grants mentioned above are intended to be used for emergency recovery
of the health system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is intended that the Credit,would finance
the cost of the following procurement:
1.   Import of medical diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, spare parts and
supplies for hospitals.
2.    Import of office equipment, furniture, supplies and pedagogical materials.
3.    Consultant services (Continuing Medical Education and Quality Assurance
Specialists, Health Care Financing and Management Specialists, Medical
Equipment Specialists.)
Given the emergency nature of the project, the above mentioned goods and consultant
services will be procured through accelerated procurement procedures within the framework of
the procurement guidelines and regulations of the World Bank, European Union, and other
possible participating financing agencies and donors.
Interested suppliers and manufactures and consulting firms are invited to send their
expression of interest to the addresses specified below. As eligibility requirements of the
World Bank and other financing agencies and donors vary for participation in bidding, the
Purchaser will prepare a list of interested suppliers, manufacturers and consulting firms
according to their eligibility. As and when the Purchaser will be ready with bidding
documents or with invitations to quote, these will be sent to those who will respond to this
notice.
Dr. Bozo Ljubic                          Dr. Dragan Kalinic
Minister of Health                       Minister of Health
Ministry of Health of the                Ministry of Health of the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina     Republika Srpska
Alipasina 41, Sarajevo 7100              Pale
Bosnia and Herzegovina                   Bosnia and Herzegovina
Phone: +387 71 618 735                   Phone: +381 71 783 106
Fax:  +387 71 618 735                    Fax:  +381 71 783 129



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 28193
160 T'r\                                       TO Zagreb  1Z8g                                    OT Osijekl
to  es '.   ;Zogreb                  b           C R O  A T I A                          To Vinkovci
To Osiiers
g  8 To Glino a Stovi                      J k- B ro d   _2   ~<}>    /;   ;i    Ter
Cf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rdBSm ~ -                                                                                                               45-
45 ,'  CazinO            ; /                   X    -                                    Dervento.
OBosonska                                                         Prniovor                       Grodo6oc    '--
C                                                                                                                                        p119~~~~rucip
Soonski Most                                             _      U,ij       Gccan,co   a s
Bosonski                                       r                                    . Teslid                             Loznica
Petrvaoc                                                            esn,Mogloi Lukovoc QC             -.
Kljueo                          Skender Vokuf                                Zioice0
aovidoniRi     0cstvidi
fCROATIA
CDrvor                Mrkonjiid                                                                             0Sakovi
Jezero:  IOdoO
PucareneO                      K koni  VreR                      Vlosenico
.  \                              Donji Vakuf,              Vitez                                 eojovo               Srebrenico
Bssgo0oa                    Busvor
Knin           |Glmoc                                                                     isoko
44   ..   ^moc.                            0Fo o         OSgeFizonok jni,
Gornji Vokuf,            Kreev            -                                             \   Belgrode
Trror XProzor                                                                                                                          Rogatncao   Vlsegrcodb    '\      Uzice
~Zadarrore
' '                         .~~~~~~~~- D:n )                                                                              ii-r -
7OSibenik '
Jablonic     ca    Konjic
KalinoAik                    JTo
-  .   fJ   \_>O Posusie                                    ar I                                        Prijepolije
Spliit-
-.9.  \.>6 g1                  Nevesinje               2   To
.Gacko9   (Podgorica
ta' dAtrJpijino' boloc                 g            REPUBLIC                     43
P1iBisto                                                                    OF
Bileca S              YUGOSLAVIA
{ (SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)
This map  -as produced by the Map
Design Unit of the World R0-k Th.
Dubrovnikw                                 ean5>   bo-darres, colors, denomiartions and
4 .  r1' To       any other inforsofion shown on this mop
PdriU ,do not imply, on the part of The World
B0 5N IA   A N D     HERZEG O VIN A                                                          8-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s/ Groop, any jad9gmf nto  the legal
B O S N I A   A N D   H E R Z E G O V I N A                                                           - ,. Pod9triw >; fasanisof ryotnytortiterr orrhe-,o-an
ESSENTIAL HOSPITAL SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                            ^             ersement or acceptance of
INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC HEALTH     i    CLINICAL CENTER:                      MAJOR ROADS                       C'x   10   R5CZEC;       - POLAND/           UKRAIN2
BANJA LUKA                           SARAJEVO (KOSEVO) 4I                RAILROADS                                          REPGER.tvANY\               UKRAN
TUZLA                                                              z       EMN
CANTONAL HOSPITALS                    MOSTAR                              RIVERS                                          ' SWIP);,                     '    ->
SARAJEV                              BA      UA0                         SELECTED CITIES                  SWIT                                            I -AUTROVA
ZEN ICA                                                                                                                           HUNGARY/
LIVNO                               GENERAL HOSPITAL:                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                               5005w
BIHAJ                                PRIJEDOR                                                                                                   ROINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    t    RMAN A   sJ
TRAVNtK                              GRADISKA                            I R      O        U      I                                > -
JAJCE                                DOBOJ
ORASJE                               BIJEUINA                                                                             -              FE0 EEP
GORAZDE                              PALE/KASINDOL/SOKOLAC                                                                       ".  N r r,oiono
TREBINJE                                                                      ITALY       --     S5ER   rrAq  BULGARIA
BRCKO 
ZVORNIK            0            25           50            75                                   A, tIA\Y'
40'                           , l   l  _Xq,  ALEANIA\    z-  j A   40
KILOMETERS                        ,                              s- ,  GREECE              30
<          Sn1-~. TURKEY
16                                          17'                                          18                                                r'-'TK
OCTOBER 1996









I MA, !. I Il G
Pi' Por t Nn -r         btj 
U t'TM           -      6,W391  BIH
1^ 4



