Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N003-0 BOS
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Essential Hospital Services Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund  established with funds contributed by certain 
members of the International Development Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the 
International Development Association
Dated February 6, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N003-0 BOS
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1997, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association, pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively.
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by 
the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved 
pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and "Participating Countries" 
means, collectively, all such countries.
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days; or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; or (c) at any time 
the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution 
of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit; or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  3
(a)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Federation PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established 
within the Federation MOH pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Federation Special Account" means the special account for the Federation 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement" and "RS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement" mean the agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and, 
respectively, the Federation and Republika Srpska, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement, as the same agreements may be amended from time to time, and such 
terms include all schedules supplemental to said agreements, and the term "Subsidiary 
Credit Agreements" means, collectively, the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement and 
the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(e)
"IPH" means diagnostic facilities within the Institute of Public Health 
of Republika Srpska located in Banja Luka, and includes any successor or successors 
thereto;
(f)
"PFH" means the Public Fund for Health of Republika Srpska, and includes 
any successor or successors thereto;
(g)
"PMAU" means the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit of the Borrower 
established to monitor and audit procurement activities under projects financed, 
cofinanced and administered by the Association and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development in the territories of the Borrower;
(h)
"Republika Srpska" means Republika Srpska, a political sub-division of 
the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(i)
"RS MOH" means the Ministry of Health of Republika Srpska, and includes 
any successor or successors thereto;
(j)
"RS PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be established within 
RS MOH pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)
"RS Special Account" means the special account for Republika Srpska 
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Special Accounts" means the Federation Special Account and the RS 
Special Account, collectively; and
(m)
"Subsidiary Credit" means the subsidiary credit to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to the Federation or to Republika Srpska.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts, the Federation Special Account and the RS 
Special Account, each in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Page  4
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed 
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from 
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2007, and ending October 
15, 2031.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on October15, 
2016 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or 
more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
(i)
shall cause Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project to be 
carried out by the Federation and shall cause Parts A.2, B.2, C.2, 
D.2 and E.2 of the Project to be carried out by Republika Srpska, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, administrative, financial and health 
practices;
(ii)
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation to carry out 
Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project and to enable 
Republika Srpska to carry out Parts A.2, B.2, C.2, D.2 and E.2 of 
the Project; and
(iii)
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of said parts of the 
Project by the Federation and Republika Srpska, respectively;
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause the Federation to carry out Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, D.1 and E.1 of the 
Project and Republika Srpska to carry out Parts A.2, B.2, C.2, D.2 and E.2 of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit to the Federation and Republika Srpska for purposes of the Project under 
separate subsidiary credit agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation and the Borrower and Republika Srpska in accordance with the provisions of 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and except as 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limiting the generality of its obligations under Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Federation 
and Republika Srpska to employ, by February 28, 1997, procurement agents under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause each of the Federation 
and Republika Srpska to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
Page  6
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower, the 
Federation and Republika Srpska responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause each of the Federation and Republika 
Srpska to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator, who shall be employed by November 30, 1997 on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall or shall cause each of the Federation and Republika Srpska to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account or payment out of 
the Special Accounts was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the Federation and Republika 
Srpska to coordinate with the PMAU for purposes of procurement monitoring and audit of 
their respective parts of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Federation or Republika Srpska shall have failed to perform any of 
its respective obligations under the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement and RS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Federation or Republika Srpska shall be able to 
perform its respective obligations under the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
and RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
Page  7
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Federation Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;
(b)
the Federation PIU has been established with terms of reference and with 
staffing and other resources satisfactory to the Administrator in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
the detailed list of medical equipment for each cantonal hospital and 
clinical center, satisfactory to the Administrator, to be procured under Part B.1 of 
the Project, has been prepared; and
(d)
the allocation of amounts for civil works among specific cantonal 
hospitals and clinical centers, satisfactory to the Administrator, to be rehabilitated 
under Part A.1 of the Contract, have been prepared.
Section 6.02. The following is an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions 
to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Federation Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly executed by the parties thereto and is legally binding in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 6.05. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade 
   and Economic Relations 
Danijela Ozme 7,
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association and the Administrator:
Page  8
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Alija Izetbegovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
     as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
     with funds contributed by certain members of the 
     International Development Association pursuant to
     Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
     of the International Development Association
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit
    % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under  
1,300,000 
100% (net of
Parts A.1 and E.1
taxes)
of the Project 
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100%
(a)
under Parts B.1,
2,980,000
of local expenditures
C.1, D.1 and E.1
(ex-factory cost) and 
85% of local expendi-
tures for other items 
procured locally
(b)
under Parts B.2, 
1,390,000
C.2, D.2 and E.2 
of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services,
100%
training and auditing
Page  9
(a)
under Parts C.1, 
1,160,000
and E.1 of the 
Project 
(b)
under Parts C.2, D.2 
  620,000
and E.2 of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating 
100% through 
costs
December 31, 1997,
75% through
December 31, 1998,
and 50% thereafter
(a)
under Parts D.1 
 800,000
and E.1 of the 
Project
(b)
under Parts D.2 
      1,110,000
and E.2 of the
Project 
(5)
Unallocated
(a)
for Parts A.1, B.1,
  690,000
C.1, D.1 and E.1 
of the Project
(b)
for Parts B.2, C.2,
  350,000
D.2 and E.2
of the Project
TOTAL
   10,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures";
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs incurred by the 
Federation PIU and RS PIU on account of the Project for staff salaries, office 
facilities, services, staff travel and consumable office supplies as shall be agreed 
with the Administrator; and
(d)
the term "training" means expenditures incurred in connection with the 
training activities (other than consultants’ services) to be carried out under the 
Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainees and other expenditures 
as shall be agreed with the Administrator.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category (2) (a) unless evidence satisfactory to the 
Administrator has been furnished to the Administrator that the detailed technical 
specifications and procurement packages of medical equipment, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, to be procured under Part B.1 of the Project, have been prepared; and 
(c) under Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b) unless: (i) evidence satisfactory to 
the Administrator has been furnished to the Administrator, by April 30, 1997, 
confirming: (A) that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator; (B) that the RS PIU has been 
established under terms of reference and with staffing and other resources 
satisfactory to the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (C) that the detailed technical specifications and 
procurement packages of medical equipment, satisfactory to the Administrator, to be 
procured under Part B.2 of the Project, have been prepared; and (ii) the Administrator 
Page  10
has received an opinion or opinions that the RS Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been 
duly executed by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon them in accordance 
with its terms.
4.
In the event the evidence required under paragraph (3) (c) hereof, is not 
furnished by the date specified in said paragraph (3) (c), the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the amounts allocated to Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) 
and (4) (b) specified in the table in paragraph 1 hereof or reallocate such amounts to 
other Categories.
5.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for works 
and goods under contracts not exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent each and $2,000,000 
equivalent each, respectively, except for the first three contracts awarded under 
Schedule 3, Section I, Part B.3 of this Agreement; (b) incremental operating costs, 
training and auditing expenditures; (c) contracts for employment of consulting firms 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) contracts for employment of individual 
consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, each under such terms and conditions as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower to develop a modern, 
cost effective and fiscally sustainable hospital network which would: (i) strengthen 
essential hospital services; and (ii) establish and support the initial health 
financing reforms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Physical Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Essential Hospital 
Facilities
1.
Rehabilitation and reconstruction of about eight cantonal hospitals and about 
three clinical centers, performing functions at the level of cantonal hospitals, 
throughout the Federation.
2.
Rehabilitation of IPH of Republika Srpska.
Part B:
Medical Equipment and Supplies
1.
Provision of essential medical supplies and diagnostic and therapeutic equipment 
to about eight cantonal hospitals and to about three clinical centers, performing 
functions at the level of cantonal hospitals, throughout the Federation.
2.
Provision of essential medical supplies and repair and maintenance of existing 
equipment to eight hospitals, the Banja Luka clinical center and the IPH.
Part C:
Upgrading of Clinical Skills and Practices
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to the Federation for: 
(i) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic 
protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost effectiveness; and (ii) 
in-service training for physicians, nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory 
technologists.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to Republika Srpska 
for (i) the adaptation, production and dissemination of diagnostic and therapeutic 
protocols for essential clinical interventions of known cost effectiveness; and (ii) 
in-service training for physicians, nurses, midwives, and diagnostic and laboratory 
technologists.
Part D:
Health Financing Reform and Implementation
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment for: (i) the 
development of a new health financing system in the Federation; (ii) institutional 
support for the implementation of such financing system; and (iii) the development and 
implementation of a simplified automated management information system at the FHIA and 
Page  11
at about eight cantonal hospitals and about three clinical centers, performing 
functions at the level of cantonal hospitals, supported under the Project.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment for: (i) the 
development of a new health financing system in Republika Srpska; (ii) institutional 
support for the implementation of such financing system; and (iii) the development and 
implementation of an automated management information system at the PFH and at about 
eight hospitals supported under the Project.
Part E:
Project Implementation
1.
Establishment and strengthening the capacity of the Federation PIU to oversee 
and coordinate the implementation of Parts A.1, B.1, C.1 and D.1 of the Project 
through the provision of equipment, civil works, technical assistance and training.
2.
Establishment and strengthening the capacity of the RS PIU to oversee and 
coordinate the implementation of Parts A.2, B.2, C.2 and D.2 of the Project through 
the provision of equipment, civil works, technical assistance and training.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, and goods, 
which the Administrator agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  In addition, the 
list of suppliers to be invited shall include, inter alia, the suppliers who express 
interest in response to the General Procurement Notice referred to in paragraph 2.7 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 6 hereof, works estimated to cost $5,000,000 
equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following 
modifications:
(i)
general prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press.  The list of prequalified bidders will be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the national 
competitive bidding documents agreed with the Administrator;
(iv)
foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
Page  12
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost: (i) $2,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,730,000 equivalent in respect of the parts of the 
Project to be carried out by the Federation; and (ii) $2,000,000 equivalent or less, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,470,000 equivalent in respect of the parts 
of the Project to be carried out by Republika Srpska, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard 
documentation agreed with the Administrator.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost: (i) $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent in respect of the parts of the 
Project to be carried out by the Federation; and (ii) $200,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $210,000 equivalent in respect of 
the parts of the Project to be carried out by Republika Srpska,  may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature: (i) up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $120,000 equivalent in respect of the parts of the Project to be carried out by 
the Federation; and (ii) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent 
in \0crespect of the parts of the Project to be carried out by Republika Srpska, may, 
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost: (i) $1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent in respect of the parts of the 
Project to be carried out by the Federation; and (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent in respect 
of the parts of the Project to be carried out by Republika Srpska, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i)  each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first three contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  13
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
 Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restriction
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and 
(4)(a) in case of the Federation Special Account and Categories (2)(b), (3)(b) and 
(4)(b) in case of the RS Special Account, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
in the case of the Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
in the case of the RS Special Account, or such other amounts as the Administrator 
shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited 
into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Page  14
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit in the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
Page  15
the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the respective 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
For purposes of Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall enter into the Subsidiary Credit Agreements, which shall include the following 
terms and conditions:
1.
The Borrower shall on-lend the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit to the 
Federation and Republika Srpska on the following principal terms and conditions: (a) 
the Borrower shall on-lend to the Federation an amount in Dollars equivalent to the 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a) and 
(4)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and shall 
on-lend to Republika Srpska an amount in Dollars equivalent to the amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit allocated to Categories (2)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph l of Schedule l to this Agreement; (b) the term of each Subsidiary 
Credit shall be 35 years, including a 10-year grace period; (c) the Borrower shall 
charge the Federation and Republika Srpska a commitment charge at a rate equal to the 
rate payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (d) the Borrower shall charge the 
Federation and Republika Srpska a service charge on the principal amount of each 
Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the 
rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (e) the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Credit shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account on account of expenditures for the Project; and (f) 
the Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the repayment terms of 
each Subsidiary Credit in conformity with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of this 
Agreement.
2.
The Federation shall carry out Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project 
and Republika Srpska shall carry out Parts A.2, B.2, C.2, D.2 and E.2 of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, 
administrative, financial and health practices, and in accordance with the provisions 
set forth below.
3.
The Federation shall establish and maintain, for purposes of Parts A.1, B.1, 
C.1, D.1 and E.1 of the Project, the Federation PIU under terms of reference and with 
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Administrator.  The Federation PIU 
shall be headed by a director and shall have overall responsibility for the management 
and coordination of said parts of the Project.
4.
Republika Srpska shall establish and maintain, for purposes of Parts A.2, B.2, 
C.2, D.2 and E.2 of the Project, the RS PIU under terms of reference and with staffing 
and other resources acceptable to the Administrator.  The RS PIU shall be headed by a 
director and shall have overall responsibility for the management and coordination of 
said parts of the Project.
5.
For purposes of ensuring that the procurement of goods and works is carried out 
in accordance with the procedures stipulated for that purpose:
Page  16
(a)
the Federation, by February 28, 1997, shall employ procurement agents, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, to assist the Federation 
in carrying out the procurement of said goods and works under Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, D.1 
and E.1 of the Project; and
(b)
Republika Srpska shall employ, by February 28, 1997, procurement agents, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, to assist Republika Srpska 
in carrying out the procurement of said goods and works under Parts B.2, C.2, D.2 and 
E.2 of the Project.
6.
For purposes of their respective parts of the Project, the Federation and 
Republika Srpska shall each maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project and the departments or agencies of the Federation and 
Republika Srpska responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
7.
The Federation and Republika Srpska shall each operate and maintain, or cause to 
be operated and maintained, any facilities relevant to their respective parts of the 
Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause to be made, all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof.
8.
The Federation and Republika Srpska shall, through the Federation PIU and RS 
PIU, respectively, coordinate with the PMAU for purposes of monitoring and audit of 
procurement activities for their respective parts of the Project.
9.
The Federation and Republika Srpska shall each: (a) by May 31, 1997, employ 
consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, to carry out 
a study on alternatives for the reform of the financing of their respective health 
sectors; (b) by May 31, 1998, carry out each said study; (c) coordinate on the 
findings of the respective studies; and (d) furnish to the Administrator, for review 
and comment, the conclusions and recommendations of the respective studies, and advise 
the Administrator of the reform measures that the Federation and Republika Srpska 
intend to take in the financing of their respective health sectors.
10.
For purposes of their respective parts of the Project, the Federation and 
Republika Srpska shall each:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, by April 30 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 1998, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
