Page  1
September 28, 2000
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
  Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Dutch Grant for Essential Hospital Services Project
Grant Number TF 023571     
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands, 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred thousand United States dollars 
(US$500,000)  (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kurtovic
Date:
October 2, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to co-finance the Essential Hospital Services 
project, which has as one of its main objective the development of a modern, 
cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector through the strengthening 
of essential hospital services at the cantonal level, focusing on the most needy 
segments of the population, and establishing and supporting the initial steps in 
health financing reforms (the Project). The activities (the Activities) for which the 
Grant is given are as follows:
(a) provision of medical equipment and supplies for Zenica, Livno, Travnik and 
Orasje hospitals;
(b) physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of essential hospital facilities 
Page  2
of Zenica and Livno hospitals; and 
(c) financing of the operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall cause the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the 
Federation) to: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange 
views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and 
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient shall make available to the Federation the proceeds of the Grant 
for purposes of carrying out the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and works required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
Allocated
Expenditures
Item
  (in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
170,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2)
Works
300,000
100% net of taxes
(3)
Operating costs
 30,000
80%
TOTAL
500,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; the term "local 
expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, and the term 
"Operating costs" includes the cost of  PMU staff salaries, travel and other related 
expenses incurred by the PMU on account of Project implementation..
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Page  3
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of IDA or for services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to IDA’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2001 
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date, with the approval of 
the Minister for Development Cooperation and IDA, for expenditures incurred prior to 
the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within 
four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining 
unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or such other person 
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) works costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, and (c) 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank of the Recipient on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
Page  4
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities. 
Attachment I 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, and goods, 
which the Administrator agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  In addition, the 
list of suppliers to be invited shall include, inter alia, the suppliers who express 
interest in response to the General Procurement Notice referred to in paragraph 2.7 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 6 hereof, works estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following 
modifications:
(i)
general prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press.  The list of prequalified bidders will be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
Page  5
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the national 
competitive bidding documents agreed with the Administrator;
(iv)
foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$25,000 equivalent may, with IDA’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i)  each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first three contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  6
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means items (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works required for the Activities and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  7
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
